DRN-3253797
The complaint
Mr B feels that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) unreasonably delayed a
withdrawal he requested which led to him incurring a loss on a planned investment because
the unit purchase price moved against him during the delay period.
What happened
Mr B had held two different NS&I products and requested a withdrawal from both products
on 19 November 2020. NS&I processed the withdrawal from one of the accounts and Mr B
received the relevant amount on 23 November 2020. However, NS&I noted that Mr B had
made an error on the withdrawal request form for the other product, and they sent Mr B a
replacement form which was received by Mr B on 1 December 2020. Mr B completed and
posted the replacement form back to NS&I on the same day.
On 10 December 2020, NS&I wrote to Mr B advising that security checks were being
undertaken on the withdrawal request and that they might have to contact Mr B regarding
this. NS&I didnt subsequently contact Mr B, and Mr B himself called NS&I on 17 December
2020 to chase the completion of his withdrawal request. Mr B chased NS&I again on 22
December 2020 and 5 January 2021, without success.
On 11 January 2021, Mr B received notification from NS&I that his withdrawal request will be
completed within the next 48 hours, and the next day Mr B received the money from NS&I
into his bank account. Mr B wasnt happy that the withdrawal had taken such an
unreasonably long time, especially given that the unit price of his planned investment had
gone up during the delay period. So, Mr B raised a complaint.
NS&I looked at Mr Bs complaint. They noted that withdrawal transactions such as Mr Bs
can require security checks which can cause a delay, and they also explained that the
remainder of the delays were attributable to staff shortages brought about by the Covid-19
pandemic over which they had no control. Because of this, they didnt uphold Mr Bs
complaint.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that NS&I couldnt reasonably
be held accountable for the delays in the withdrawal that had occurred given the impact of
Covid-19, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 December 2021 as follows:
I can understand how it would be frustrating for Mr B to have had to wait several 
weeks to receive the monies from the delayed withdrawal, especially given that his 
other withdrawal was processed by NS&I within a short amount of time.
But I can also appreciate, from NS&Is perspective, how its ability to process 
customer transaction requests might have been impacted by staff shortages and 
working restrictions brought about because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
This complaint therefore becomes, in essence, a question of whether I feel its fair 
and reasonable that a customer should bear the cost of losses from transactional 
processing delays which, if they were considered without Covid-19 entering the 
equation, would be viewed as being unreasonably long, but which NS&I contend 
were directly because of Covid-19 on this occasion.
Thats a difficult question to answer here because my role is to be impartial and to 
look at things from both sides. Having done that though, I think that NS&I did 
contribute to Mr Bs loss here in a way which isnt fair in the circumstances. And this 
is because, while I can appreciate that NS&I might have struggled to process the 
request in a timely manner because of elements such as Covid-19 that were outside 
their control, I dont feel that its fair that Mr B should be asked to bear the cost of 
those delays in full.
I think its important to note that when Mr B first made his withdrawal requests on 19
November 2020, this wasnt at the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, but instead 
was several months later. So, while Ive taken onboard all that NS&I have said about 
the delays here, I also have to consider that by the point that Mr B made his 
withdrawal requests, NS&I had had a number of months to react to and deal with the 
challenges brought about by the pandemic.
To some extent, it looks like NS&I was able to deal with business as usual requests
promptly around this time. For example, on the other withdrawal request made by Mr 
B, for which he received the relevant amount four working days later. So, it seems 
reasonable to me that Mr B might question why money from the transfer request 
under consideration here took significantly longer to be received.
But when Mr B submitted the initial withdrawal requests on 19 November 2020, he 
didnt complete the form for the withdrawal request in question correctly, and NS&I 
had to send a replacement form for Mr B to complete and return. This form was 
received by Mr B on 1 December 2021 and sent back to NS&I that same day. And 
NS&Is records confirm that this form was received by them on 3 December 2021. As 
such, given that these events occurred as a result of Mr B not completing the initial 
form correctly, Im satisfied that NS&I cant be considered as being at fault for the 
delay in processing the withdrawal request up to this point. And as such I feel that the 
instruction for the second withdrawal should be considered as being correctly 
received by NS&I on 3 December 2020, in contrast to the instruction for
the first withdrawal which was received by NS&I on 19 November 2020.
This means that, while NS&I only took four days to action one transfer, Im satisfied 
that there were fair reasons that it wasnt able to process Mr Bs other request as 
promptly  both linked to the nature of the instruction itself and the possibility that the 
situation within NS&I with regard to the impact of Covid-19 may have changed in the 
time it took for a replacement form to be received by them.
However, while I do accept that Covid-19 related events may have led to reasonable 
delays to the second withdrawal being processed, as explained previously, Im not convinced that the totality of these delays can be considered as being something for 
which Mr B should bear the consequential cost.
As I understand it, the timeline of processing events following the receipt of the 
replacement withdrawal request form by NS&I on 3 December 2020 are as follows:
03/12/2020: Replacement form received by NS&I
10/12/2020: Letter to Mr B advising of security checks on withdrawal
21/12/2020: Security checks completed  bank verification and signature check
21/12/2020: Payment to Mr B keyed and sent for validation
08/01/2021: Payment to Mr B validated
12/01/2021: Payment to Mr B transacted
Its notable from the above that there were five working days between NS&I receiving 
the replacement form from Mr B and confirming to Mr B that security checks needed 
to be undertaken before the withdrawal request could be processed. Its also notable 
that these security checks, which comprised of a bank verification and a signature 
check, then took a further seven working days to be completed.
Following the completion of the security checks and the keying of the payment to Mr 
B which was then sent for validation, there was then a delay of a further ten working 
days before the keyed payment was validated and the transfer of money to Mr B was 
authorised.
The length of these delay periods doesnt seem reasonable to me, even taking the 
impact of Covid-19 into account, and where appropriate, the Christmas and New 
Year holidays. And I dont feel that Mr B should be asked to bear in full the 
investment loss that he incurred because of these delays.
NS&I have themselves stated that they aim to send letters to customers advising that
security checks are being undertaken on a transaction within three working days of 
the customer requesting that transaction, and that they aim to complete the security 
checks within a further two working days. NS&I have also stated that the timeframe 
within which they aim to validate a keyed payment is also two working days. This 
means that NS&I believe that a reasonable period for all three of these stages to be 
completed is seven working days, whereas these three events actually took a 
combined total of twenty-two working days to complete.
The question that then presents itself is what length of delay beyond those 
timeframes, attributable to Covid-19, is reasonable. I realise that my answer here is 
subjective, but I feel that a reasonable period of delay to attribute for Covid-19 is one 
further working day per event  that is, that it shouldnt be reasonably expected for 
Mr B to bear the investment loss consequential to NS&I taking more than four 
working days to have recognised that security checks were required, more than three 
working days for those checks to have been completed, and more than three further 
working days for the keyed payment to Mr B to have been validated and authorised 
by NS&I.
This means that I feel that, even taking the effects of Covid-19 into account, Mr B 
should reasonably have received the monies from the second withdrawal request no 
later than twelve working days from NS&I receiving the replacement form on 3 
December 2020  and these twelve days comprise the ten working days explained in 
the previous paragraph as well as a further two working days for the transfer to 
complete.This feels fair to me, and I feel it provides a reasonable period of grace for NS&I in 
light of difficulties they may have encountered as a result of Covid-19.
This means that I feel that Mr B should have received the monies from the second
withdrawal request no later than 21 December 2020. And it follows from this that I 
dont feel that Mr B should be expected to incur the cost of the investment loss he 
incurred subsequent to this date.
And, I am satisfied that Mr B has incurred investment loss here. I say this because 
Mr B has been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that his intention was always to 
re-invest the monies from the withdrawals into a specific investment vehicle. And its 
notable that Mr B did invest the monies from both withdrawals into that investment 
within a timely manner upon his receipt of those monies.
Accepting then, that Mr B should have reasonably received the monies from the 
second withdrawal on 21 December 2020, I note that Mr B would then have had to 
transfer those monies to his investment broker and that the investment itself only had 
weekly purchase points. This means that the first date that I feel that Mr B should 
have reasonably been able to purchase his intended investment was on 23 
December 2020, on which date the historical unit price for his intended investment 
was £161.38. This is in contrast to the unit price at the time that Mr B was able to 
purchase the investment at, which was £166.37.
Mr B has demonstrated that he used the monies received from the delayed 
withdrawal to purchase 6010.69 units at a price of £166.37 per unit, for a total cost of 
approximately £1M. Had Mr B been able to purchase the units at the cost of £161.38 
per unit, he should have been able to purchase 6196.55 units. This is 185.86 units 
more than Mr B was ultimately able to purchase.
As such, it follows then that my provisional decision here will be that I am upholding 
this complaint in Mr Bs favour on the basis outlined above, and that my provisional 
instruction to NS&I is that they must make a payment to Mr B equivalent to the cost 
of 185.86 units of Mr Bs intended investment calculated on the date that NS&I make 
the payment to Mr B  which must be within 30 days of the date of my final decision 
letter. Finally, I will also be provisionally instructing NS&I to make a further payment 
of £250 to Mr B to compensate him for the upset and inconvenience this matter has 
caused.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr B and NS&I the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. NS&I confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, while Mr B 
did provide some further comments.
Mr B asked whether this service had been able to obtain verification from NS&I as to the 
expected timeframes of their internal processes. I can appreciate why Mr B would seek 
further clarification on this matter, given the importance of these timeframes in this decision. 
But while this service can ask a business how long a process should reasonably take  and 
make an assessment of whether a fair outcome has occurred or not as a result of these 
processes  it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct or advise a business to change 
how it chooses to operate, and as such this service wouldnt generally expect a business to 
provide the level of verification of its processes that Mr B refers to here. And this is because 
the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulatory body, but rather is a dispute resolution 
service with a mandate focussed on fairness of outcome.
Mr B has also questioned whether a higher amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience might be warranted in this instance, above and beyond the £250 instructed in 
my provisional decision letter. Again, I can appreciate Mr Bs position here, and I 
acknowledge that matters of compensation can be subjective. But it must be noted that this 
service doesnt calculate compensation on an hourly rate or for time spent, but rather that 
awards of compensation are based on an assessment of perceived impact undertaken within 
this services overriding remit of fairness of outcome. And in this instance, while I understand 
that Mr B may disagree, I do feel that the £250 that I provisionally awarded is a fair and 
reasonable amount, given all the circumstances of this complaint.
Finally, Mr B has questioned NS&Is position as to whether Covid-19 was impacting their 
operations during the timeframe in question. However, while Mr B is correct that Covid-19 
rates were decreasing nationally during the time in question, it doesnt necessarily follow 
from this that NS&I werent operationally affected at that time, and as such Im satisfied that 
NS&Is stated position here is reasonable.
All of which means that I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Mr Bs favour on the 
basis outlined in my provisional decision letter, and my final decision here will be that I do 
uphold this complaint on that basis.
Putting things right
NS&I must make a payment to Mr B equivalent to the cost of 185.86 units of Mr Bs intended 
investment, calculated on the date that NS&I make the payment to Mr B.
NS&I must also make a further payment of £250 to Mr B to compensate him for any upset 
and inconvenience this matter may have caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Savings and
Investments on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman