DRN-3731348
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as 
Scottish Provident will not consider her critical illness claim. She says it is particularly unfair 
as newer policies offered by Scottish Provident now include some cover for her condition.  
What happened
Mrs M began her policy in 2008. In 2021, she was sadly diagnosed with a type of breast 
cancer. She consequently had a lumpectomy as well as further cavity shaving and additional 
localised treatment. Mrs M later made a claim to Scottish Provident for critical illness benefit.  
Scottish Provident declined the claim in November 2021. It explained that Mrs Ms diagnosis 
of ductal carcinoma in-situ (DCIS) was a type of cancer not covered by her policy terms. 
Medical evidence from Mrs Ms treating consultant confirmed her condition had no invasive 
malignancy  and therefore it did not fall within the policys cancer definition.   
Mrs M complained later that month. She said Scottish Provident had originally led her to 
understand that DCIS was covered, as was the procedure of lumpectomy because new 
customers were covered for those matters. Her view was that even if she wasnt covered, 
changes that benefitted existing customers should be automatically added to old policies.   
Scottish Provident wasnt minded to change its view. It said it had listened to the calls held 
with Mrs M and it could not evidence that she had been told a claim would be paid. Further, 
though it had since included DCIS (with lumpectomy or other operation) as a definition within 
its critical illness policies, it did so from May 2011 onwards  after Mrs Ms policy had been in 
force for several years. It explained that it was not obliged to update policy definitions; as 
such, each policyholder would be measured against their own contractual policy terms.  
So, Mrs M referred her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He felt Scottish Provident had fairly refused to pay the claim.  
He explained that non-invasive cancers were not covered by Mrs Ms policy, and her 
consultant had confirmed that her cancer was non-invasive. For that reason, he could not 
conclude that Scottish Provident had made a mistake in rejecting the claim. Further, he 
noted how once a policy has been taken out, the terms remained the same for the duration 
of the policy. So, he could not compel Scottish Provident to add DCIS to Mrs Ms policy now.  
Neither party replied to the view. However, a few months later, Mrs M referred to a historical 
news article regarding Scottish Provident; this set out how it had decided to expand the 
conditions it covered to include additional illnesses and events  one of which was DCIS.  
She explained that her husband had been unwell, and this caused the delay in replying. 
Mrs M said she questioned why she was still paying a large monthly premium if she had 
undergone a lumpectomy and suffered from DCIS  two things Scottish Provident now 
covered. She said she remained of the view that she should have been given the choice to 
upgrade her policy when Scottish Provident improved it. Instead, it selectively wrote to some 
customers and not others. Mrs M asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
Scottish Provident didnt have any further comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mrs Ms diagnosis and that her husband is also now unwell. I do send 
them both my best wishes. Though I know this wont be the answer theyve hoped for, I am 
also unable to uphold this complaint. For the reasons Ill explain, I believe Scottish Provident 
has fairly refused the claim. 
I know Mrs M feels strongly that she took this policy out to cover her in circumstances akin to 
the position she is in now. And I dont doubt that. But, this is not a complaint about the sale 
of the policy  if Mrs M is unhappy about what was put to her in 2008 then concerns 
regarding the sale of the policy would need to be lodged with the business that sold her 
policy, as a fresh complaint. 
To be fair to both parties in a complaint, I need to look at the policy itself and decide if 
Scottish Provident has acted within the agreed contractual terms. In respect of the critical 
illness of cancer, the policy wording gave the definition as:
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and 
characterised by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue. 
The term malignant tumour includes leukaemia, lymphoma and sarcoma.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
All cancers which are histologically classified as any of the following:
-pre-malignant
-non-invasive [my emphasis]:
-cancer in situ [my emphasis]:
-having either borderline malignancy: or
-having low malignant potential
All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a 
Gleason score greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM 
classification T2N0M0.
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia unless histologically classified as having 
progressed to at least Binet Stage A.
Any skin cancer other than malignant melanoma that has been histologically 
classified as having caused invasion beyond the epidermis (outer layer of 
skin).
The histology report carried out for Mrs M in June 2021 confirmed that she had a type of 
DCIS with the report stating that there is no invasive malignancy. Further, when Mrs M 
met with her treating consultant after her two surgical procedures, on each occasion she was 
informed that the DCIS was non-invasive and there was no evidence of residual disease. 
This description clearly falls within the exclusions Ive set out in bold above. So Scottish 
Provident is correct when it says a claim cant be paid. I dont think its unfair to reach that 
conclusion as Scottish Provident is only contractually obliged to pay a claim when policy 
wording has been met; and I dont think the policy wording itself is unjust.
I say that because the Association of British Insurers (ABI) issues industry guidance on 
critical illness policies. These periodic Statements of Best Practice are for insurers to use when offering such cover, and they give model wordings including exclusions. 
In the guide applicable at the time Mrs M took out her policy (dated April 2006), the model 
wording proposed is as above  Scottish Provident has used the required wording in its 
offering. This is since the guidance requires insurers offering these policies to include cover 
for cancer, heart attack and stroke as a minimum. Otherwise, insurers are free to decide on 
the conditions and exclusions applicable to their products. 
What I must determine is if, in the circumstances, a business has been fair and reasonable 
in carrying out a contract of insurance. I do appreciate that Mrs M feels strongly about the 
matter. But in my view, the refusal of a claim for a condition or event which isnt provided for 
in the policy terms is a reasonable action for an insurer to take. Unfortunately, Mrs Ms policy 
has exclusions for instances of cancer that are in-situ or are non-invasive, such as DCIS.   
I know Mrs M feels it is particularly unfair that in later years, Scottish Provident has included 
an operation to remove DCIS as a claimable condition (for a lower benefit amount) in its new 
critical illness policies.  I realise that is frustrating, but I cannot require Scottish Provident to 
assess the claim against terms it may offer now or from 2011 onwards. It has to look at Mrs 
Ms claim against the policy wording provided to her within her terms, because its contractual 
obligation is to insure her on those conditions, at an agreed monthly cost. 
Life insurance and critical illness policies are generally long-term products; for example, they 
are often taken out alongside mortgage lending. In the intervening years, insurers may make 
periodical changes to the products they offer. Though I accept that it might be good practice 
to notify policyholders of these changes, it wouldnt be fair to unilaterally apply future 
changes to existing terms already agreed by policyholders.  
If insurers were able to vary the conditions during a policy term, policyholders would need to 
be re-underwritten based on their health, so an insurer can ascertain the cost of providing 
insurance for additional conditions. This could lead to some customers losing valuable cover 
or paying more for the same policy; insurance is costlier with age, and a persons health may 
have deteriorated - meaning they can no longer have the same cover for the same price. 
Or, it might be that certain listed conditions could be removed or amended based on 
changes to medical expertise or where those conditions were no longer seen to have the 
same severity. As an example, the previous ABI guidance from August 2004 did not include 
an exclusion for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia under the cancer definition but the 2006 
guidance does. So, if policies could be amended by insurers, some policyholders will lose 
the opportunity to claim through such amendments. On that basis, terms are agreed from the 
outset and should not be materially changed unless provided for within the contract itself. 
My final decision
I cannot uphold this complaint. Unfortunately, the type of cancer Mrs M has been diagnosed 
with is not a claimable condition under her policy terms  it is expressly excluded under the 
non-invasive and cancer in-situ exclusions. Therefore, Scottish Provident has rightly refused 
her claim.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman