DRN-3263610
The complaint
Ms B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc failed to handle a claim under her legal 
expenses insurance policy fairly. 
Where I refer to AXA, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
In early 2019, Ms B made a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy to pursue an 
action for breach of contract and clinical negligence following orthodontic treatment. AXA 
accepted the claim and instructed one of its panel firms of solicitors, who Ill refer to as L.
L were initially satisfied that the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success. But 
following a complaint regarding their conduct from Ms B, L informed AXA that prospects 
were no longer reasonable. The reasons for this are unknown, as L said they didnt have 
consent from Ms B to release this information. 
Based on this advice, AXA withdrew cover from the claim as it said its a requirement for 
cover under the policy that a claim must enjoy reasonable prospects. Ms B asked to use 
another panel firm, but AXA said that as the policy terms werent met there was no cover 
available. 
AXA said that if Ms B wanted to challenge this decision, shed need to get a legal 
assessment of her own from a solicitor of her choice. Ms B asked what the process was. 
And she was told that if she got a supportive legal opinion, AXA would ask L whether it 
altered their opinion on prospects. Ms B was concerned thered be a conflict of interest given 
that shed raised a complaint about them. But AXA said it wouldnt be the same solicitor 
involved. 
Miss B raised a complaint. And it was later clarified that this information was incorrect. AXA 
advised that it would obtain a legal assessment from a barrister. But that it would be 
obtained through L. Ms B asked for the barristers details as well as a list of panel firms, but 
AXA refused to provide this.
Ms B approached another solicitor, who Ill refer to as M. They said her claim enjoyed 
reasonable prospects and as they were also on AXAs panel, they said theyd make contact 
to get cover in place. Ms B was later informed that M couldnt act for her, but they wouldnt 
confirm why. 
Ms B then approached a non-panel firm, who Ill refer to as R. They were also satisfied the 
claim had reasonable prospects and their opinion was provided to AXA. I understand cover 
is now in place for R to act for Ms B under the policy. And whilst I understand she has 
concerns over the terms of appointment offered, this is being dealt with as a separate 
complaint. So I wont comment on this point any further. 
Following this, Ms B made a subject access request (SAR). But on receipt of the information, 
she found that documents were missing. She asked AXA to provide this information or clarify 
which non-disclosure exemptions it was relying on. AXA failed to respond and instead 
treated the request as a second SAR, subjecting Ms B to a further 40-day time frame. 
AXA later apologised for this. It acknowledged that this wasnt a second SAR. And it 
provided some missing information as well as details of the exemptions it was relying on to 
withhold certain documents. It offered £100 compensation for this aspect of the complaint. 
Ms B brought her complaint to our service, but it wasnt upheld. Our investigator said that 
whilst it was clear thered been some failings in the customer service provided to Ms B, he 
didnt think the claim had been impacted. So he didnt think AXA needed to do anything to 
put things right. In addition, he thought the offer of £100 compensation was fair in respect to 
SAR as the missing information didnt have an impact on the complaint investigation.
As Ms B didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me. And in December 2021, I issued a 
provisional decision, which said:
Prospects of success
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs legal expenses insurance policy say that cover will be 
provided as long as a claim has reasonable prospects of success, defined as being more 
than 50% chance of winning and achieving a positive outcome.
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding due to a claims prospects of success, it 
isnt for me to evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, my role is to look at 
whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as it has obtained written and well-reasoned 
advice from suitably qualified lawyers, I wont generally question its reliance on that advice, 
unless I think it was obviously wrong or factually incorrect. 
In Ms Bs case, L initially informed AXA that the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects. But 
approximately six months later, it said this was no longer the case. Its not unusual for 
prospects to diminish as a claim progresses, but I can understand Ms Bs concern that L 
only said this after shed raised a complaint about their conduct. As our investigator has 
explained, I cant look into the actions or advice of a solicitor, as this falls outside of our 
services remit. So she would need to raise this to the Legal Ombudsman. 
Looking at AXAs actions, I can see that it declined Ms Bs claim based on Ls statement that 
the claim no longer had reasonable prospects. But I cant see that it was provided with Ls 
reasoned opinion on why theyd come to that conclusion. So I dont think it was reasonable 
that it declined to cover the claim at that stage.
Consent
L said the reason they couldnt provide their full reasoned opinion on the prospects of the 
claim was because Ms B hadnt consented to them releasing information to AXA. Ms B 
denies this  she says shed never been asked for consent, and had certainly never said no. 
She emailed AXA giving her consent for L to provide it with whatever it needed to see. Once AXA had this consent, it couldve provided this to L in order to get a copy of the 
prospect assessment. And once in possession of this, it wouldve been entitled to rely on the 
advice, provided that it was well-reasoned and not obviously wrong. But I cant see that AXA 
made any attempt to obtain this assessment. Instead, it continued to say Ms B hadnt given 
consent despite it having the email of consent.
Legal challenge
AXA informed Ms B that she could challenge the rejection of her claim if she was able to 
provide a supportive legal opinion. Ms B asked for details of this process and she was 
advised that her claim would be passed back to L for a reassessment. 
Ms B was understandably concerned that this would be a conflict of interest, given the 
complaint shed raised against them. She was so distressed that her claim wasnt going to 
be considered fairly that this prompted her to raise a complaint to the CEO of AXA. 
Ms B was later informed that this information was incorrect. And whilst this wouldve clarified 
things for her, it doesnt take away the distress and inconvenience she experienced during 
that time. 
Ms B also remained concerned that L would have any involvement during the legal 
challenge process. I appreciate that L would only be involved in instructing the barrister. But 
given the complaint against them, Im not persuaded that this wouldve been appropriate. 
AXA has other solicitors on its panel, and I think given the circumstances of this case, it 
couldve obtained a barristers opinion in a fairer way to alleviate Ms Bs concerns.
M Solicitors 
I understand Ms B is concerned about what was said between AXA and M. She says M were 
satisfied her claim has reasonable prospects and were willing to take it on. But after saying 
theyd speak to AXA about cover, they subsequently said they couldnt act.
AXA says it has no record of ever speaking to M about this claim or Ms B. Whilst I dont 
disbelieve what Ms B has told me, Ive seen no evidence of any contact taking place 
between the two parties. So Im not able to make a finding on what was or wasnt said. 
Id need to see something from M which clarifies why they were no longer willing to act, or 
some information to show me that contact was made with AXA. If Ms B has anything further 
she could add on this, Ill be happy to consider this further. 
SAR
Its not in dispute that AXA didnt handle Ms Bs SAR in the manner that it shouldve. It 
acknowledges that Ms Bs requests shouldve been dealt with as one. And that information 
was missing, including details of the exemptions it wished to rely on. So I dont need to make 
a finding on whether AXA has done something wrong here  it has. What I need to decide is 
whether AXA has done enough to put things right.
As I dont intend to award compensation for each individual complaint point, but instead to 
take a holistic view of everything thats happened to decide whats fair and reasonable, Ill 
address compensation as a whole in my summary below.
Summary Its clear there has been several failings in AXAs handling of this claim. Specifically, Im not 
persuaded that it had enough information to decline the claim due to insufficient prospects. 
And I cant see that it made a satisfactory attempt to obtain the information it needed to do 
so.
It provided incorrect information about the legal challenge process which caused Ms B 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. And it admits that it didnt handle her SAR 
correctly and in line with the Information Commissioners Offices procedures. 
Taking a holistic view of everything thats happened and the impact this has had on Ms B, I 
intend to uphold the complaint and direct AXA to pay her compensation of £350. This is in 
addition to the £100 already offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Ms B compensation totalling 
£450 for the distress and inconvenience caused. This should be paid within 28 days of Ms 
Bs acceptance of this decision.
If AXA has already paid Ms B the £100 it offered previously for the SAR complaint, it may 
deduct this from the amount payable, leaving £350 to be paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman