DRN-4078553
The complaint
Y, a limited company, represented by its director, Mr I, complains that Metro Bank PLC wont 
refund money it lost to a scam.
 
What happened
Mr I found an advert for a digger on a popular online marketplace. Coincidentally the digger 
in the photos was exactly the same digger as hed previously operated for his former 
employer. The digger did not appear to have been used since the last time he saw it  as it 
was still attached to the same trailer. He contacted the seller who claimed to represent a 
plant hire and sales company. The seller directed him to the company website, where he 
could see more information about the digger.
A sale price of £4,000 for the digger and £125.40 for delivery was agreed. Mr I was told to 
pay an account in the name of the accounts administrator. He made two payments totalling 
£4,125.40 by way of bank transfer from his Metro account. Delivery was due to take place 
within a couple of days, but when the vehicle didnt arrive, Mr I became concerned and 
contacted Metro.
Metro looked at Mr Is claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) 
which requires signatories like Metro to reimburse victims of APP scams in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. In this case, it said that Mr I hadnt undertaken appropriate due 
diligence before making the payment. It said that hed ignored various red flags  such as 
the fact hed paid a personal, rather than business, account and hadnt seen the vehicle in 
person or over a video call. It also argued he ignored an Effective Warning it had provided.
Mr I referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators initially upheld his 
complaint in part. They thought that Mr I should have had concerns about the price of the 
digger but as Metro couldnt show which warning Mr I would have seen, it couldnt 
demonstrate that it had provided an Effective Warning, as it was required to do under the 
CRM Code. So they recommended that Metro refund 50% of Ys losses. But, after further 
consideration of the evidence, particularly about the price of the digger, the Investigator 
decided that the complaint should be upheld in full.
Metro disagreed, it argued that it had shown that an Effective Warning had been provided 
and if Mr I chose the correct payment reason he would have seen it. If he did not choose the 
correct payment reason, then it cannot be held responsible for his loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In law Mr I is responsible for payments hes authorised himself. But, as noted, Metro are 
signatories to the CRM Code. So, I need to consider whether it fairly relied on any of the 
exceptions to reimbursement when it declined Ys claim. 
Metro argue that Mr I ignored an Effective Warning but is unable to demonstrate which 
payment reason Mr I chose when making the payment. It says that Mr I thinks he chose the 
payment reason shopping, but it is for Metro to demonstrate that this warning was provided 
and ignored and it is unable to do this. But, for the sake of completeness, even if Mr I did 
select the payment reason shopping I do not consider this to have been effective in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Although the warning advised to check the average price, 
be wary of deals that are too good to be true and suggested viewing the product in person, 
as Ill come onto explain, some of these suggestions werent relevant (I dont think the price 
was too good to be true) and there were other very specific reasons for Mr I to believe that 
the sale was genuine and he didnt need to see the digger in person. So, I dont think that 
the warning would have been impactful for him and, if he did see it, it wasnt unreasonable 
for him to move past it. But, in any case, the test is whether Mr I ignored an effective 
warning. Metro cannot demonstrate that he did, so it cannot rely on this exception to 
reimbursement.
Metro also seek to rely on R2(1)(c):
In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of the 
Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
(i) the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
(ii) the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
(iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
I agree with the Investigators view that the price of the digger, considering its age, while 
cheap, does not appear too good to be true. I recognise that its less easy to compare the 
price of a specialist vehicle of this nature than it might be to compare the price of other, more 
common, vehicles, particularly given the potential for significant variability in condition. 
But its also important to note a rather unusual feature of this scam  Mr I said that he 
recognised the digger as the very same one that hed previously used. He said that hed 
transported the digger to (and back from, a year later) another country. And, as far as I 
understand, when he left his old job, the digger had been in the possession of his ex-
employer. He also says that he knew that the condition of the digger was unlikely to be very 
good  as it hadnt been the last time he saw it and it didnt appear to have moved from the 
trailer that hed loaded it on to. 
I think Mr I made a few big assumptions here  that the digger had been sold by his former 
employer, that its condition was poor (he doesnt appear to have asked the fraudster) and 
that the assumed poor condition explained both why the price was at the lower end of what 
might be expected and why the digger hadnt moved from where he left it.
But the fact Mr I was familiar with the actual digger made him more, rather than less, 
confident in the legitimacy of the sale. I think he failed to appreciate the actual risk here and 
put a lot of weight on the fact that the digger existed. He clearly didnt consider the possibility 
that the fraudster was simply pretending to have possession of it. But I think that as 
someone who appears to have had little appreciation of that risk, thats understandable. Ive 
thought about whether there were other aspects to the sale which ought to have caused him 
concern. 
I can also see that the seller directed Mr I to a website and, while I havent been able to view 
that website myself, I can see why it might have added a degree of plausibility to the sale.He also says he spoke to a representative of the company over the phone (and evidence of 
such a conversation exists within the messages Ive seen) and through its chat service. Hes 
mentioned hearing background noise which suggested a busy working environment. 
The seller also offered alternative methods of payment, but made those options very 
unattractive. While its not clear to me why VAT would be added to card payments and not 
bank transfers, I can see why Mr I may have held the impression that he was choosing to 
make the payment via bank transfer rather than the reality  that this was almost certainly 
the only option actually available. 
Contrary to some of Metros submissions, it appears that Mr I received an invoice prior to 
making the payment. That invoice provided its own explanation for why the account Mr I had 
to pay was in the name of an individual  it was supposedly the name of the accounts 
administrator.
I accept it would have been sensible for Mr I to have viewed the vehicle in person before 
transferring any money or, if that wasnt possible, he might reasonably have asked for more 
evidence that the seller had possession of it. But, as already set out, Mr I seems to have 
been convinced by his personal connection to the digger. He doesnt seem to have 
appreciated that a photo of the digger might have ended up on the internet to be misused by 
a fraudster. Instead, he believed that the photo was evidence of possession. In these 
specific and quite unusual circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr I to believe 
that.  
So, while I accept this is a finely balanced point, Ive decided that Mr I did hold a reasonable 
basis for believing that the seller and sale were legitimate. 
 
That means Y should be refunded in full under the provisions of the CRM Code. Metro 
should also pay interest at 8% simple per annum from the date it declined his claim under 
the CRM Code to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Metro Bank PLC to pay Y:
-the amount lost £4,125.40, less any amounts already recovered or returned.
-8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date Metro declined his claim 
under the CRM to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman