DRN-1735406
 
The complaint
Mr B says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about 7 six-month instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr B 
between June 2015 and February 2016. This is a summary of Mr Bs borrowing history from 
Lending Stream. 
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 15/06/2015 27/01/2016 360
2 15/08/2015 - 70
3 04/09/2015 - 120
4 21/09/2015 - 60
5 01/10/2015 - 70
6 08/11/2015 - 70
7 10/02/2016 - 300
 
Our adjudicator said loans 4 onwards shouldt have been given. Lending Stream accepted 
this conclusion, but Mr B didnt. He said, in summary, Lending Stream lent irresponsibly from 
the start  credit checks would have shown he couldt repay his borrowing sustainably. And 
other similar complaints hes made have been upheld. So the complaint was passed to me.
In my provisional decision I set out that I was planning on upholding this complaint 
from loan 4 onwards, but for different reasons. I said that:
Lending Stream had carried out proportionate checks for loans 1 to 3. It asked for details of 
Mr Bs income and expenditure, it adjusted his declared expenditure using third party data 
and carried out credit checks. And I hadnt seen anything in the information it gathered that I 
thought should have led it to reach a different lending decision. Mr B argued his credit report 
would have shown he couldnt afford the loans but Lending Stream would not have seen the 
same level of information that he can access on his credit file. He also said he had lots of 
other loans already at this time  but given the stage in the lending relationship I didnt think 
it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to have carried out a fuller financial 
review that might have shown this. So I didnt think Lending Stream was wrong to give Mr B 
loans 1 to 3. 
I didnt however think Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks for loan 4. By this 
stage Mr B had three ongoing loans with Lending Stream. And a proportionate check would 
most likely have shown that he had high-cost short-term credit outstanding with at least two 
other providers, indicating he was having problems managing his money. So I thought Lending Stream should have stopped lending to Mr B at this point, at least until it had 
evidence that his finances had stabilised. It ought to have realised it was unlikely loan 4 
and any subsequent loans were going to be sustainably affordable for Mr B. 
I also looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr B, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which it should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Lending Stream should have realised that it 
shouldt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I thought that this point was reached by 
loan 7. I said this because:
Mr Bs first loan was for £360, and whilst loans 2 to 6 fell in value, loan 7 increased 
significantly back to a similar level at £300.  At this point Lending Stream ought to 
have known that Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in their 
income but to meet an ongoing need.
When Mr B applied for loan 7 he already had five other loans ongoing with Lending 
Stream so his indebtedness was increasing month by month. This ought to have 
suggested to Lending Stream that Mr B wasnt using its products to help with a short 
term cash flow problem, as they are intended.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Lending Stream. Loan 7 
was taken out eight months after Mr Bs first. And it was for a similar amount. Mr B 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Lending Stream over 
an extended period.
 
I thought that Mr B lost out because Lending Stream provided loan 7 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the loan was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So I was planning to uphold the complaint about loans 4 to 6 and loan 7 and Lending Stream 
 as it had already agreed to in response to the adjudicators view - would have to put things 
right.
I asked Mr B and Lending Stream to let me have any more information by 2 April 2020 
before I made a final decision.
Lending Stream replied asking for clarity about the proposed compensation, saying it should 
be able to recover the total outstanding balance of loans 2 and 3 as they were not being 
upheld. Mr B replied saying loan 3 should also be upheld given the increase in value and the 
short time since loan 2. He provided no new evidence to support this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Based on the responses to my provisional decision I have no reason to change the 
conclusion I set out in my provisional decision with regards to which loans are being upheld. I note Mr B feels loan 3 should be upheld, given its proximity to loan 2 and its value. But he 
provided no new evidence or information. These are factors I considered in my 
provisional decision and I remain of the view Lending Stream carried out proportionate 
checks for loan 3 given the stage of the lending relationship. And I didn't find anything in the 
information it gathered that I thought should have led it to reach a different lending decision. 
So I don't think it was wrong to give loan 3.
It follows I am upholding this complaint in part, from loan 4 onwards.
In response to Lending Stream's query about how to put things right, I agree it should be 
able to recover the total outstanding balance on loans 2 and 3, and this is reflected in the 
revised wording below.
Putting things right - what Lending Stream needs to do
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 4 to 7 and treat any 
payments Mr B made towards these loans as payments towards the capital 
if reworking Mr Bs accounts for loans 4 to 7 as Ive directed results in Mr B 
effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed on any loan, 
then Lending Stream should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date of settlement*. 
If reworking Mr Bs accounts for loans 4 to 7 leaves an amount of capital still to be 
paid on any loan, then Lending Stream can use any refund due on other loans (after 
the deduction of tax) to offset this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance 
on any loan then I remind Lending Stream that it should take a sympathetic view 
when looking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B. Lending Stream may 
also use any refund due to repay any outstanding balance (including interest and 
charges) that remains on loans 2 and 3.
remove any negative information about loans 4 to 6 from Mr Bs credit file
any information recorded about loan 7 is adverse. So all entries about loan 7 should 
be removed from Mr Bs credit file once it has been repaid.
 
As Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debt from loans 2 to 7 to a third party it should 
buy them back before doing what Ive said above. If this isnt possible, Lending Stream 
needs to make sure that Mr B has paid or will pay no more in total than the principal 
amounts he was lent in relation to loans 4 to 7. So Lending Stream should (in addition to the 
above if necessary):
arrange to repay any portion of the sum due to the third party in relation to 
loans 4 to 7 that is made up of interest and charges  including any added by the 
third party;
refund any interest and charges that Mr B has already paid to the third party in 
relation to loans 4 to 7, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
request the third party to remove any information that it may have recorded about 
loans 4 to 7 from Mr Bs credit file. 
if Lending Stream doesnt buy the debt back then it isnt entitled to make 
any deductions from the amount that it needs to pay Mr B.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Lending Stream intends to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding balance, it 
must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint in part. Gain Credit LLC must pay Mr B compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman