DRN-1632419
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that ISA investments made for him and his wife by Standard Life 
Investments Limited were incorrectly made into different unit types. He is also unhappy with 
the service he's received from Standard Life, particularly in respect of a number of delays - 
including for a withdrawal from his investment. 
What happened
Standard Life's position was that: 
It paid Mr N's withdrawal in line with its processes and within the timescale it had 
indicated. 
Mr N and his wife had made their investments and selected their funds on an 
execution-only basis, so it was their responsibility to select which type of units to 
invest in.
Mr N had asked for an audit trail to show how he'd invested. It was explained to him 
that this might take some time to obtain, but as he's confirmed that he's happy with 
his investment in the fund, there's been no financial loss as a result of the delay. 
Standard Life set expectations as to when replies were going to be provided to him, 
but he chose to send further emails despite this. 
 
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. He said, in brief: 
It appeared that Mr N now accepted why he and his wife had invested in different 
units. 
It was an execution-only service and there was no evidence that Standard Life 
deviated from the instructions it received. The units invested in were confirmed in the 
contract notes issued to Mr N and his wife. 
The withdrawal was completed within the required time limits. 
Standard Life also responded to the complaint with the required time limits. 
It always set expectations as to how long it would take to respond. There was nothing 
to suggest that Mr N had been financially disadvantaged by the time taken to 
respond. 
 
Mr N responded to the investigator, questioning whether he had fully investigated the 
situation. He stressed that his complaint was mainly about customer service and that there'd 
been discussion of some compensation to be paid by Standard Life. He said it hadn't been 
made clear at the point of investing on Standard Life's website that there were differences in 
the units. Mr N also reiterated his concerns about delays and noted the apologies given in 
emails to him from Standard Life.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Turning first to the issue of the different units, it seems to be accepted that Mr N and his wife 
did, albeit unintentionally, make purchases of different units. I'm satisfied that Standard Life 
acted on both instructions correctly, matching the requests that had been made. I don't think 
there was any responsibility on it to notice or act upon the difference. As Mr N was using an 
execution-only service, it was his (and his wife's) responsibility to ensure the investment 
details were correct.
With respect to the delays, I've not seen anything to suggest that Standard Life took longer 
than it had indicated it would for any of the transactions or requests that Mr N made. The 
withdrawal was completed in the correct time frame. And although the response to supply an 
audit trail to Mr N (so he could see what units he had purchased) took longer than other 
responses, it was explained that this would probably be the case as it was an unusual 
request and the staff member involved then took holiday.
Clearly Mr N would've liked Standard Life to respond to him more promptly. But I don't think 
at any point it took an unreasonable length of time, or failed to meet any specified deadline. 
And while Standard Life may have apologised to him on occasion, I think this would've been 
intended simply as politeness rather than an admission of it having done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman