DRN-3200177
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Mobile Money Limited (MML) was irresponsible to have 
agreed credit for her.
What happened
MML provided Miss M with a loan of £1,065 in June 2018. The total repayable including 
interest and charges came to £2,230, to be repaid over 18 months at £124 a month (all 
figures rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Miss M 
provided MML with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Miss M didnt make her loan 
repayments MML could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle.
Miss M missed payments from the beginning. She paid £215 in September 2018 but didnt 
make any further payments in 2018. By February 2019 MML had recovered her car, sold it 
and credited the proceeds from the sale to her loan account. Miss M entered into a 
repayment plan with MML for the balance and paid a further £295, a total of £510.
Miss M said that MML shouldnt have agreed to lend to her as the loan was unaffordable. 
At the time Miss M says she had significant financial problems including gambling debt 
and rent and utility arrears. She says she was evicted from her home shortly after taking 
the loan out. Miss M also says that losing her car caused her great distress and 
inconvenience, and contributed to her losing her job and her home.
MML says that it carried out an in-depth affordability assessment with Miss M before 
approving the loan, which included a credit file check. It says this showed that the loan 
would be affordable for Miss M. Nevertheless, it offered to waive the balance on her loan 
account as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss M declined this offer and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Miss Ms complaint and recommended that it be upheld. They found that 
MMLs checks werent sufficient and further checks would have shown the loan to be 
unaffordable for Miss M. Our investigator recommended that MML refund all payments 
Miss M made above the original amount she borrowed along with compensatory interest, 
and that these payments should include an amount to reflect the market value of the car 
which they estimated as £3,842.
Miss M accepted this recommendation but felt she should also be paid compensation for 
her loss of earnings and the distress and inconvenience the sale of her car caused to her 
and her family.
MML accepted our investigators finding that it should not have lent to Miss M, however it 
disagreed with their proposed redress because it said the market value of the car was not 
as high as theyd estimated due to its poor condition. MML asked for the complaint to 
come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October 2021 upholding Miss Ms complaint and 
proposing how to put things right for her. This included my provisional finding that our 
investigators estimate of the market value of the car was too high at £3,842 and was 
likely to be closer to £3,000. I also didnt think an additional award for distress and 
inconvenice was appropriate because I didnt find that MMLs actions were responsible for 
Miss M losing her job or her home. 
I gave both parties time to respond and provide any comments or new information they 
wished me to consider. MML said it had nothing further to say on the matter. Miss M 
disagreed with a number of points Id made, including what Id proposed to put things 
right.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M made a number of points in response to my provisional decision:
Miss M said that her car had not been in poor condition when MML recovered it 
and so my estimate of £3,000 as the market value of the car  was too low.  
Id said in my provisional decision that Miss M had paid an amount of £510 
towards her loan which left a capital balance of £555. Miss M disagreed with this 
amount because a statement of account from February 2019 showed that shed 
paid over £1,900. 
Miss M also expanded on why she felt it would be fair that shes awarded further 
compensation to reflect that she lost her job as a result of MML recovering her car, 
and subsequently lost her home as she couldnt pay her rent arrears. She also 
explained how she managed when MML recovered her car. 
Having considered everything again, and considered what Miss M has said in response to 
my provisional decision, I remain of the view that her complaint should be upheld. 
Furthermore, I now think that it would be appropriate for MML to make an award to Miss M 
to reflect the distress and inconcenience shes experienced in having her car recovered 
and sold. 
Ive let both parties know this and both are in agreement with my inclusion of an 
addditional award as part of the redress for this complaint. I am sending out this final 
decision, explaining my reasoning again and setting out my final redress.
As Id said in my provisional decision, weve set out our general approach to complaints 
about this type of lending  including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice  on our website. Ive followed that approach here. MML has accepted that it 
shouldnt have entered into the agreement with Miss M and so I wont go into detail about 
my findings on this point. In brief, Ive concluded that the information MML knew about 
Miss Ms financial situation prior to entering into the agreement should have led it to 
decline to lend to her or, at the least, carry out further checks before doing so. A 
proportionate check would not have provided any reassurance to MML as it was likely to 
have learnt that Miss M would not be able to meet her repayments in a sustainable 
manner. 
To put things right for Miss M our investigator proposed that MML refund the payments 
she made towards the loan along with compensatory interest. They proposed that these 
payments should also include the market value of her car at the time it was recovered by 
MML, in other words the market value of the car should be considered as a contribution from Miss M towards the loan. MML sold her car at auction and the sale price didnt 
necessarily reflect the market value of the car, in other words the cost to Miss M of 
replacing it with a similarly valued vehicle. Our investigator estimated this to be £3,842.
MML said that the vehicle valuation obtained was excessively high because, while the car 
was of relatively low mileage, it had been poorly maintained. MML provided a third-party 
vehicle appraisal report from the time of the recovery which gave an account of the 
condition of the car and estimated costs of replacing or repairing items. This included the 
following:
Replacement of a broken headlamp £182
Replacement of a broken front bumper £249 
External scuffs and dents £278
Wheels and tyres scuffs £240
Internal repairs and cleaning £103
Refinishing of bodywork £1,610
Our investigators estimate of £3,824 was an average based on valuation reports from 
three market value assessors. This assumed the car was in a clean condition. Valuations 
for averageand below conditions were £3,425 and £3,000 respectively. Based on the 
above list of potential work I provisionally concluded that a fairer estimate of the market 
value of the car at the point of recovery was closer to £3,000.
As mentioned Miss M disagreed with this estimate. She said that there was nothing wrong 
with the paintwork or the headlights, although there were scuffs on the alloys. 
I have considered this point again however, MML has provided photographs and a third-
party estimate of replacing or repairing certain items. Excluding the estimate of £1,610 for 
refinishing of bodywork the estimate for the rest of the work comes to over £1,000. In the 
absense of any evidence to the contrary, I think its reasonable to accept this quote and I 
remain satisfied that £3,000 is a fairer estimate of the market value of the car at the time it 
was recovered. 
I provided Miss M with the 3rd party appraisal report I relied on. Miss M has disputed that 
the car showed this damage when it was in her possession and says it must have been 
damaged after recovery. Im afraid I cant accept what Miss M says about the condition of 
her car prior to collection without proof, given the photographic evidence Ive seen, which 
was dated the 14 January 2019. In summary, my conclusion is that £3,000 is a fair 
estimate of the market value of the car at the time it was sold. 
I have also considered what Miss M has said about the impact the recovery and sale of 
the car had on her and her family. Miss M said that she needed the car to bring her 
daughter to school and get to and from work. She says that being without it meant she 
needed to reduce her working hours and was late to work on several occasions. Miss M 
provided some of her payslips which show she was paid less in March 2019 than in 
February or January. Miss M has told us that she lost her job that March and was evicted 
from her home in May.
Let me say again at this point that Im sorry to hear of Miss Ms difficulties. I dont doubt 
that she has had a very difficult time regarding her finances and her health, and Im sorry 
to hear it has been so hard for her. 
Id said in my provisional decision that while I appreciated that being without her car was 
inconvenient for Miss M, I hadnt seen enough which helped me understand why this loss 
caused Miss M to reduce her hours or be late for work. I noted that Miss Ms bank statements and payslips show that her pay varied and in the months from November 2018 
to March 2019 she was paid £977, £1,354, £1,584, £1,287 and £1,237 respectively. Given 
the nature of her job I would expect that she would be busier around the Christmas period 
and I couldnt say that her pay amounts showed she had reduced her hours. 
Miss M said that she needed to coordinate bringing her child to school with catching a 
train to work and she was consistently late because of the train schedule. Miss M also 
explained that it was more expensive to take a train than to use her car and her increased 
travel costs meant she couldnt pay for childcare after work and needed to collect her 
daughter after school and bring her to her place of work. She says these combined led to 
her losing her job. 
I explained in my provisional decision that even if I were to find that the loss of Miss Ms 
car contributed to her being late for work, I hadnt seen any evidence that lateness was 
the direct and sole cause of Miss M losing her job. Many other factors may have played a 
role in this and without any evidence I cant accept that the actions of MML were the sole 
contributing factors.
Id also said in my provisional decision that Miss M had been in sustained arrears for 
some time and was facing eviction prior to the cars recovery by MML. As I havent found 
that she lost her job because of MMLs actions, I cant find that subsequent events, such 
as losing her home, were due to these actions. 
When reconsidering this point again, I remain of the view that I cant say that MMLs 
recovery and sale of Miss Ms car led to the loss of her job or her home. However, I do 
think Miss M suffered distress and inconvenience when MML recovered and sold her car 
and she had to make alternative arrangements. As set out on our website, an award of 
over £300 and up to £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake has caused 
considerable upset and worry and significant inconvenience that needed extra effort to 
sort out, typically over weeks or months. So Ive concluded that an award in this bracket 
would be appropriate here. 
As mentioned, both parties are in agreement about this. As Ive set out in my redress 
below, I think its fair that instead of MML paying Miss M an amount in this bracket, it 
waives the outstanding capital balance of £555 and makes no deduction from the overall 
refund.
Putting things right
Ive found that MML was irresponsible to have agreed credit for Miss M in June 2018. In 
order to put her back into the position she would have been in had this not happened 
means Miss M shouldnt pay any interest or charges associated with this borrowing and 
her liability should be limited to the capital of £1,065 she borrowed. 
I said in my provisional decision that Miss M had paid a total amount of £510 towards the 
loan, leaving a capital balance of £555. As mentioned Miss M disagreed with this figure. 
She said that an account statement from February 2019 shows shows payments made of 
£1,540.67 and an outstanding balance of £372. Shes provided a snapshot of the loan 
entry on her credit file dated September 2021 which shows a balance of £366.
I had considered the February statement when making my provisional decision. The 
payments made include the net sale proceeds of £930 from the sale of Miss Ms car and 
an interest rebate of £100.67. The actual payments made by Miss M came to £510, which 
leaves £555 of the original capital borrowed outstanding. Im not including the sale 
proceeds as payments towards the loan because Ive found the market value of Miss Ms car was likely to be higher than MML received for it and I think MML should refund this 
whole amount to Miss M. It wouldnt be fair to credit Miss M with the proceeds of MMLs 
sale in addition to the market value of her car. 
In order to put things right for Miss M, MML needs to:
Pay Miss M £3,000* to reflect the market value of her car at the point of recovery; 
and
Waive the outstanding capital amount of £555 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused to her; and
Add 8% simple interest per annum* to this refund from the date Miss Ms car was 
recovered to the date of settlement of this complaint; and
Consider the loan as settled and remove any adverse information about this loan 
from Miss Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MML to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for 
one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am upholding Miss Ms complaint in part and require Mobile 
Money Limited to put things right for her as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman