DRN-3120343
The complaint
Miss H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard hasnt taken her difficult 
personal circumstances into account when administering her credit card account.
What happened
Miss H had a Barclaycard account. It was registered as defaulted and sold to a third-party 
which has been pursuing her for repayment. Miss H didnt think Barclaycard should have 
done this as it was aware of her difficult personal circumstances. Barclaycard didnt accept it 
had done anything wrong. Miss H disagreed so she asked our service for an independent 
review. She also raised concerns with our service about the affordability of the credit limit 
Barclaycard had given her.
Barclaycard agreed to consider its lending decisions as a separate complaint, so the 
investigator considered how the account was administered during Miss Hs difficult time. He 
concluded, in summary, it was fair and reasonable for Barclaycard to default and then sell 
the account as Miss H had been in arrears for several months and a repayment plan hadnt 
been agreed. Miss H didnt agree. In her view her difficult personal circumstances hadnt 
been adequately accounted for. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Miss H would like to speak to me. But I dont consider a call necessary to reach 
my decision. I can assure Miss H Ive read everything she has sent our service. I dont doubt 
how incredibly difficult the last few years have been for her and she has my sympathies. I 
must, however, approach this complaint objectively. 
As I have said, there is a separate complaint about whether Barclaycard granted Miss H an 
inappropriately high credit limit. This has led to a further final response letter dated 
9 March 2022. So, I wont comment on Barclaycards lending decisions in this final decision. 
Turning to the subject matter of this complaint, in my view it comes down to whether it was 
fair and reasonable for Barclaycard to default the account and then, later, sell the debt to a 
third-party. Im satisfied it was. Ill explain why. 
Miss H had, by her own admission, been struggling with her Barclaycard repayments for 
quite a long time. I can see from her statements and Barclaycards notes that from 2017 
Miss H was in contact over her circumstances and missed repayments to the account. From 
then onwards some fees were refunded, and some interest free periods were applied, but 
ultimately things deteriorated. From what Ive seen Barclaycard supported Miss H in the way 
I would expect. 
By January 2019 Miss H was about £1,500 in arrears and had an outstanding balance of 
about £10,500, so Barclaycard defaulted the account. I find defaulting the account was the 
fair and reasonable thing to do. This is because by this point it was clear Miss H wouldnt be 
able to get her account back on track and defaulting the account permanently suspended 
interest and charges, thereby preventing Miss Hs debt from increasing. 
Miss H says she agreed to pay Barclaycard £20 a month. This appears to have been a few 
days before the default was applied. Im not persuaded an offer of this size when considering 
the arrears (£1,500) and the contractual monthly repayments (about £240) was enough to 
avoid the default. It follows I consider it fair and reasonable for Barclays to default the 
account despite Miss Hs repayment offer. 
Miss H says she paid £20 a month regardless but after forgetting to make the repayment 
one month because of difficult personal circumstances, Barclaycard sold the debt to a third-
party. She doesnt think this was fair and argues passing her details to a third-party is a data 
breach. I dont agree. Barclaycard was entitled to sell the debt and to do so must, by 
necessity, pass her details on to the debt purchaser. If Miss H is dissatisfied with the way the 
debt purchaser has been pursuing her for repayment, Im afraid thats a matter for her to 
take up with the debt purchaser.
I know how strongly Miss H feels about her complaint. But from my review of whats 
happened Im satisfied Barclaycard treated her fairly and reasonably. It follows this isnt a 
complaint I should uphold.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman