DRN-4397376
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about a charge that has been deducted from their Flexible
Investment Bond and paid to Chetwood Wealth Management Ltd (Chetwood) since 2014.
Mr S and Mrs S say they declined any ongoing services from Chetwood when their former
adviser merged with that firm. They complain that Chetwood was paid an ongoing adviser
charge from their investment from 2014 until 2022, at which point they contacted the
provider of the investment and cancelled the deduction of that charge.
What happened
In February 2013 Mr S and Mrs S were provided with a recommendation to take out a
Flexible Investment Bond by an adviser, who I will refer to as adviser 1.
In March 2013 Mr S and Mrs S took out that joint Flexible Investment Bond using the
services of adviser 1.
In 2014 adviser 1 contacted them to inform them that his business was merging with
Chetwood.
At the same time Chetwood bought the business book and its revenue stream from adviser
1.
Chetwood then contacted Mr S and Mrs S to see if they wanted to become clients and
receive an ongoing review service. They declined that offer.
In September 2014 adviser 1 wrote to the provider of Mr S and Mrs Ss investment bond on
behalf of his firm and indicated that he had agreed to the transfer away of business to
Chetwood. He said that included the servicing rights and payment of all renewal, trail and
fund-based commissions.
At the same time Chetwood also wrote to the provider and confirmed that it agreed to accept
the servicing, renewals, and clawback liability from that business. It said that all statements
should now be addressed to Chetwood.
Following that correspondence, the agency of the plan was transferred to Chetwood and
Chetwood, having bought the business from adviser 1, was paid a regular fee of 0.5 percent
of the value of Mr S and Mrs Ss investment.
In June 2022 Mr S and Mrs S became aware that Chetwood had been receiving these
payments.
In July 2022 Mr S and Mrs S contacted the provider of their investment bond and cancelled
the payments.
Mr S and Mrs S then complained to Chetwood about it receiving this charge from their
investment. They said they had expressly stated they didnt want any service from
Chetwood.
Chetwood didnt uphold their complaint. It said Mr S and Mrs S had received advice from
adviser 1 when they took out their investment bond. It said for arranging the initial sale of the
bond, that adviser, or any subsequent agent on the plan, would receive 0.5% of the bond
value per year, for the life of the policy, as commission. Chetwood said that payment was
contractual from the outset.
Chetwood said that adviser 1 had sold the revenue stream for his business in 2014, which
included their bond. So, it said the commission payments for the initial advice had been paid
to Chetwood as the new agents.
Chetwood said adviser 1 had introduced Mr S and Mrs S to an adviser from Chetwood and
there had been a discussion about becoming Chetwood clients and receiving an ongoing
service from Chetwood but they had declined.
Chetwood said the income it had received related to the original sale of the policy and was
sold to it in good faith by adviser 1s former business. It said it hadnt set up an ongoing
service and it hadnt charged Mr S and Mrs S for any ongoing service.
Mr S and Mrs S disagreed and referred their complaint to our service.
Their representative said that Mr S and Mrs Ss financial adviser called them in early 2014 to
inform them his firm was merging with Chetwood. She said he wanted to know whether they
wished to continue with his services managing their investment bonds.
Their representative said Mr S and Mrs S had a discussion regarding this and a few days
later they called adviser 1. She said they informed him that they did not want to continue with
his services, or with Chetwood when they merged.
Their representative said a few months later an adviser from Chetwood visited Mr S and  
Mrs S to offer ongoing services from Chetwood, which they declined. She said they told
Chetwoods adviser that they were no longer being provided with any services from    
adviser 1s firm, and they didnt want any from Chetwood.
Their representative said she was helping Mr S with paperwork in June 2022, when she
discovered that the charge had been collected by Chetwood.
Our investigator considered Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint and concluded it should be upheld
and Chetwood should reimburse the fees paid since 2014.
The investigator said that Mr S and Mrs S had made it clear that they didnt want to be
clients of Chetwood when it contacted them in 2014 and Chetwood had confirmed that it
hadnt provided them with any service. He noted that despite this Chetwood had benefited
from the fees.
The investigator said that while the fee was payable for the life of the contract, it was
reasonable to conclude that Mr S and Mrs S had cancelled it in 2014, when they informed
the original firm and Chetwood that they no longer wanted to be their client.
The investigator also noted that Chetwood wasnt a party to the investment contract. So he
said it was reasonable to conclude that the payment shouldve ended when it took over and
the original firm was no longer the beneficiary of the commission payments.Chetwood disagreed and said that it was entitled to receive the commission as it had bought
the revenue stream from the original firm in good faith. It didnt agree that the discussion in
2014 amounted to a cancellation of the fee. It said in order to cancel the commission Mr S
and Mrs S wouldve needed to contact the provider.
As no agreement could be reached Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint was referred to me for
review.
I issued a provisional decision where I concluded that Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint against 
Chetwood should be upheld but for different reasons to those set out in the investigators 
view. I concluded that the payments received by Chetwood should be refunded to Mr S and 
Mrs S together with any lost investment growth on those payments. An extract from that 
decision is reproduced later in this decision. 
Both parties were then given an opportunity to respond with any further representations they 
wished to make. Both parties acknowledged and accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the same view as set out in my provisional decision, an extract 
of which is reproduced below and forms part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To recap, Mr S and Mrs S complain about a charge of 0.5 percent of the value of their
investment being paid to Chetwood by the provider of that investment. They say this charge
shouldnt have been deducted as Chetwood didnt provide them with any service. Chetwood
says the monies it received were trail commission from the provider, which originated from
the sale of the investment product, so it says it had no obligation to provide any service to
Mr S and Mrs S.
The way that trail commission works is not entirely straight forward. In summary, in certain
circumstances the provider of an investment product would pay commission to the firm that
sold that product. It often paid the commission by way of an initial lump sum followed by
smaller instalments. The consumer taking out the investment would agree to that
commission being paid to the firm, but it would be paid by the product provider.
In addition, the firm who sold the product could receive monies from the investment by way
of an ongoing charge which would be connected to an ongoing service being provided by
that firm. 
I need to consider therefore which of these two types of scenarios I think on balance applies
to Mr S and Mrs Ss investment.
Ongoing adviser charge
When Mr S and Mrs S applied to take out their flexible investment bond, they signed an
application form which expressly asked the provider of the investment to deduct a specifiedamount from their investment capital for an initial adviser charge, and in addition, a regular
ongoing amount for an ongoing adviser charge.
The form indicated that the ongoing adviser charge was to start immediately and be
deducted until further notice. It was also calculated as a percentage of the fund value  0.5
percent per year and to be deducted monthly.
I consider that this section was expressed in clear terms in the application form and I dont
think that form was overly long or complicated and it was signed by both Mr S and Mrs S.
So, I consider on balance that they were made aware, when they first took out the
investment in March 2013, that a regular charge would be paid to their adviser from their
investment.
As it was set up until further notice rather than for a specified term such as five years, it
would carry on being paid until the provider was notified that it shouldnt be paid any longer,
which is what happened in 2022 when Mr S and Mrs S contacted their provider.
There is limited documentation available from the point of sale as the original firm is no
longer involved, having sold its business book to Chetwood, and Chetwood doesnt have a
client file for Mr S and Mrs S because they declined any ongoing review service.
The charge is described on the application form as an ongoing adviser charge which I think
would tend to suggest that some type of ongoing service was provided. However, Chetwood
argues that it had no obligation to provide an ongoing service, as the money it has received
was part of the commission paid to the original firm for the sale of the investment bond and it
bought the rights to that commission from the original firm.
Before the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) at the end of 2012, it
wasnt uncommon for advisers to be renumerated in this way. So, they would receive an
initial commission and then smaller instalments that would be paid on a regular basis.
Advisers could therefore receive ongoing or trail commission for the sale of an investment
product without providing any ongoing service.
However, in order for the monies paid to Chetwood to amount to commission with no
obligation to provide an ongoing service, the relevant events would have needed to take
place before 31 December 2012. So before the relevant provisions of the RDR came in
force, which I will come back to later in this decision.
I am satisfied on balance that Chetwood bought the rights to any revenue stream relating to
Mr S and Mrs Ss investment from adviser 1. I note that both adviser 1 and Chetwood wrote
to the provider at the relevant time indicating that was the case. It is also agreed by the
parties that the provider paid the monies to Chetwood.
I can also see that the provider sent Chetwood a copy of the biannual statement for the bond
for the years that followed, with the original statement going to Mr S and Mrs S. I think it is
more likely than not, that the provider did so because it was informed by adviser 1 that the
rights to any payments had been transferred to Chetwood and Chetwood had also confirmed
to the provider that was the case.
Was Chetwood entitled to receive payments without providing a service?
Before the implementation of the RDR and the resulting amendment to the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COB) Rules, I think Chetwood wouldve been entitled to be paid
instalments from the product provider of Mr S and Mrs Ss investment on the basis that it 
was commission without providing an ongoing service. That is, until the point it was cancelled by Mr S and Mrs S and the way to cancel it, would be to notify the provider, as    
Mr S and Mrs S did in 2022.
However, Chetwood has indicated, in its correspondence in response to Mr S and Mrs Ss
complaint, that the advice was provided to Mr S and Mrs S in February 2013. In addition I
can see the application to take out the investment was made in March 2013.
So, as neither of these events took place on or before 31 December 2012, I dont think
Chetwood can rely on the exception in the COB rules at 6.1A.4A and accept renumeration
by way of commission without providing any service.
Im not satisfied therefore on balance that this charge, or any other payment made to the
original advisory firm in relation to these events and then made to Chetwood, amounted to
commission which would have been allowed to have been collected prior to the
implementation of the RDR.
On that basis Im not persuaded on balance that Chetwood was entitled to collect this as
pure commission without providing any service, taking into account COB 6.1A which covers
adviser charging and renumeration and which prohibits this unless the relevant events took
place on or before 31 December 2012.
I also note in the application form, in a section entitled Commission it explained that:
In some instances XXX (redacted) is able to pay commission to your professional adviser.
This is where:
No financial advice has been provided; or
Where the financial advice is provided before 31 December 2012.
The amount of commission payable to your professional adviser will be shown in the
Personal Example provided.
I consider this again highlighted that if the advice was provided after 31 December 2012,
then the provider wouldnt be able to pay commission to the financial adviser.
Contact between the parties in 2014
Mr S and Mrs S say that when they spoke to Chetwoods adviser in 2014, they made it clear
that they didnt want Chetwoods services. So, they say that included paying it the ongoing
adviser charge.
There is no contemporaneous documentary record of this conversation available. However
Chetwood agrees that Mr S and Mrs S didnt want to become clients and receive services
from Chetwood, which is why it doesnt hold a full client file for them. Chetwood says that not
wanting to receive advice and reviews of their investments from Chetwood, is different from
notifying the provider and telling it to stop paying Chetwood the ongoing adviser charge.
It is difficult to say exactly what was discussed in 2014, considering the time that has now
passed and given there is no documentary record made at that time available. However, it
seems clear that Mr S and Mrs S didnt notify the provider as Chetwood continued to receive
the charge. And I think it likely on balance that they were made aware of this charge being
paid in paperwork sent about their bond because they were able to find the information in
2022.I am not persuaded on balance that informing Chetwood it didnt want to receive its service
amounted to cancelling the deduction. As I have said, there was a particular way to address
this and that was to contact the provider.
However, that is not the end of the matter, because as I have said, I dont think Chetwood
was entitled to receive pure commission as a result of the changes brought in by the RDR
and implemented in COB 6.1A. And it is clear from the account of both parties that no
ongoing service was provided. So, when Mr S and Mrs S made it clear in 2014 that they
didnt want any ongoing service, I consider Chetwood should then have ceased to collect the
ongoing adviser charge.
Summary
I appreciate that from Chetwoods point of view it bought a revenue stream from another
firm, so it considers it was entitled to continue collecting any ongoing payments that would
have been paid to that firm. However, because this investment product was recommended
and sold after the end of December 2012, I dont think Chetwood could receive that revenue
stream without providing a reciprocal service. And it seems clear from both parties that no
such service was provided as Mr S and Mrs S declined to receive any service from
Chetwood.
Putting things right
Chetwood should refund the payments it received from Mr S and Mrs Ss investment bond.
It appears that those charges were deducted directly from the investment so Chetwood
should also compensate Mr S and Mrs S for any lost investment growth.
I think a fair and reasonable way to calculate the compensation would be for Chetwood to
compare the current value of Mr S and Mr Ss investment, with the value it wouldve had if 
the deductions for the ongoing adviser charge had not been made from 2014, when 
Chetwood started receiving that charge, to 2022 when it was cancelled by Mr S and Mrs S.
Chetwood will need to liaise with the provider of the investment bond to obtain the relevant
information and will need permission from Mr S and Mrs S to do so.
Putting things right
Chetwood should pay compensation to Mr S and Mrs S calculated as set out in my 
provisional decision above.
 
For the current value Chetwood should use the value of Mr S and Mrs Ss investment as at 
the date of this decision.
However, I understand that Chetwood, in response to my provisional decision, contacted the 
provider to obtain the relevant information and the current value, for the purposes of 
calculating the compensation I had outlined, and the provider responded with the information 
requested.
On that basis,  if all parties are agreed and assuming Chetwood has followed the 
methodology outlined in my provisional decision,  I am content for Chetwood to use the 
current value date in that request to the provider, with the aim of ensuring a prompt 
payment of compensation to Mr S and Mrs S. 
Otherwise, Chetwood should use the current value as at the date of this decision for the 
comparison calculation.Chetwood should provide details of its calculation to Mr S and Mrs S in a clear, simple 
format.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint against Chetwood Wealth 
Management Ltd and it should pay them compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman