DRN-2751152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has 
declined to pay for parts of a subsidence claim made under their home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs D have been represented during their claim and complaint. For simplicity, 
reference to them will include the comments of their representative.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D noticed some cracking within their property and took advice from an engineer. 
In summary, the engineer thought the property was suffering from subsidence. Mr and Mrs D 
got in touch with Lloyds to make a claim in October 2019.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster. It accepted the damage was caused by subsidence and 
the claim was covered by the policy. Mr and Mrs D asked whether Lloyds would reimburse 
them for the cost of their engineers report and pay for them to appoint their own project 
manager or engineer to oversee the claim. Lloyds didnt agree to either point.
Lloyds said the policy only covered fees necessarily incurred with its prior approval  and it 
hadnt approved any engineers fees. It said customers were expected to let Lloyds know of 
any damage as soon as they became aware of it. And if Mr and Mrs D had done that, Lloyds 
would have appointed its loss adjuster. Lloyds said Mr and Mrs D were entitled to appoint 
their own project manager or engineer, but it would be at their own cost. Once the claim had 
progressed to the repair stage, Lloyds said its loss adjuster would discuss the proposed 
work with Mr and Mrs D. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs D whether to agree for Lloyds to 
carry out the work  or to take a cash settlement.
Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint to this service. They didnt think the wording of the 
policy ruled out Lloyds paying for the engineers report or an engineer to oversee the claim. 
They said the damage was significant and the work to put it right would be extensive, so the 
expertise of an engineer or project manager would be necessary. They accepted they hadnt 
sought or received prior approval to pay for an engineers report. But they thought it 
reasonable as lay people to seek independent advice on the cause of the damage before 
deciding whether to contact Lloyds.
An investigator considered the complaint and thought Lloyds had acted reasonably. He said 
that as the engineers report hadnt changed Lloyds approach to the claim, it was fair for it to 
decline to cover this cost. He said the policy gave Lloyds the right to decide how to settle the 
claim and, as it was offering to carry out the work or paying a cash settlement, he thought 
Lloyds had acted fairly on this point too.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed and made a number of points. The investigator wasnt persuaded to 
change his mind and an agreement wasnt reached. The complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have made a number of points and several hypothetical questions have been 
posed. Ive read and considered all thats been said. But in this decision Ill only comment on 
the points which I think are relevant to resolving the dispute at the heart of this complaint.
Engineers report and fee
Lloyds has relied on two policy terms to support its decision not to pay Mr and Mrs D for the 
engineers report.
The first says, in summary, that where its necessary to repair the building, Lloyds will pay for 
surveyors fees where theyre necessarily incurred and with Lloyds prior approval.
The second term says that if something happens which causes or may cause a claim, the 
policyholder may need to take immediate action  for example where theres a water leak or 
broken window. For other claims, the policyholder should inform Lloyds as soon as they can.
Lloyds say that if Mr and Mrs D had followed the second term, it would have appointed a 
loss adjuster, who would have carried out an inspection and there would have been no need 
for them to incur the cost of the engineers report. Lloyds didnt approve the expert fees and 
dont consider they were necessarily incurred.
Mr and Mrs D have explained they were concerned about the damage and wished to 
understand what might have caused it. So they thought it sensible to contact an engineer. I 
dont think Mr and Mrs D acted unreasonably. Theyre entitled to take any advice they wish 
about their home. But the key point is whether Lloyds should pay for that advice.
The policy is clear that policyholders should take action where there is an immediate risk, 
such as an on-going water leak or unsecured building. It doesnt indicate that action must be 
taken in all claims or that a policyholder must prove the cause of damage prior to contacting 
Lloyds. Ive seen no evidence in this case of an immediate risk or that the engineers report 
mitigated any such risk. So Im satisfied the policy didnt give the impression that Mr and Mrs 
D had to take advice before making this type of claim.
Mr and Mrs D accept they didnt obtain prior approval from Lloyds. There are some 
situations where approval may not be necessary for me to find it fair for an insurer to pay for 
expert advice. That would usually be where I found it necessary for the advice to be taken as 
a result of the way the insurer had acted. For example, where the insurer had declined the 
claim and the policyholder had to take expert advice to show the claim should be covered. In 
this case, the fee was incurred before the claim was made or Lloyds was involved. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds made it necessary for Mr and Mrs D to pay for expert advice.
In my experience, most policyholders report damage of a structural nature, such as cracking, 
to their insurer without taking expert advice first. And when they do, most insurers appoint a 
loss adjuster to inspect the damage and deal with the claim. If Mr and Mrs D had made the 
claim without the report, I think its likely Lloyds would have appointed the loss adjuster and 
they wouldnt have needed to pay for advice.
Overall Im satisfied it was reasonable for Lloyds not to pay for the engineers report. The fee 
wasnt approved and it wasnt necessarily incurred.
Project Manager or engineer to oversee the claimMr and Mrs D would like Lloyds to pay for a project manager or engineer to oversee the 
claim, including the repairs. They have described the damage as significant and the work to 
put it right as extensive. As its structural damage to their home, I can understand why they 
would like to ensure the claim, including the repair, is handled appropriately.
Returning to that first policy term mentioned above, Lloyds will pay for surveyors fees where 
theyre necessarily incurred and with Lloyds prior approval. Lloyds hasnt agreed for Mr and 
Mrs D to pay for a surveyor or similar to oversee the claim. And it doesnt think its necessary 
to do so. Its been clear that Mr and Mrs D are entitled to pay for any expertise they wish.
Lloyds, like any insurer, is entitled to decide how to manage a claim, including whether it 
wishes to appoint loss adjusters. In my experience, most subsidence claims are handled by 
loss adjusters who specialise in subsidence. And thats what Lloyds has done here. These 
loss adjusters regularly handle claims involving significant building damage and extensive 
repair work. So I dont think its unfair or inappropriate for Lloyds to appoint a loss adjuster. I 
recognise Mr and Mrs D may prefer to choose an engineer or project manager to handle the 
claim. But the policy doesnt require Lloyds to provide and pay for that option.
As above, there are some situations where I may find it fair for an insurer to pay for expert 
advice despite the policy terms. That would usually be where I found it necessary for the 
advice to be taken as a result of the way the insurer had acted.  
At the time the complaint was made, the claim was a few months old and the loss adjuster 
was carrying out investigations to determine the cause of subsidence  and decide what 
should be done to stop it. There had been some concerns about the timing of appointments 
and amount of communication. But a dispute hadnt arisen about how to deal with the 
subsidence problem or what repairs had been proposed or undertaken as that stage hadnt 
been reached. I havent seen any evidence to show why a project manager or engineer 
would be necessary to oversee the claim based on what had happened up to that point.
Its clear Mr and Mrs D take a great deal of pride in their home and would like to be closely 
involved in the decision-making process about what happens to it. Thats understandable 
and Id expect Lloyds to take that into account in the way it handles the claim.
When handling claims, Lloyds is required to do so promptly and fairly. In broad terms, that 
means ensuring a lasting and effective repair of the damage, progressing the claim 
reasonably and avoiding delays, and regular, effective communication with its policyholder.  
Lloyds is responsible for fulfilling these requirements. That remains the case whoever it 
appoints to help with the claim, including any settlement it offers, repairs it carries out or 
decisions it makes about how to handle the claim. If Lloyds doesnt fulfil those requirements, 
it will be responsible for putting things right.
Part of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is about the claim settlement options. Lloyds has outlined 
two broad options  it will either carry out the work or pay Mr and Mrs D cash to the value of 
that work and allow them to make their own arrangements. The claim hasnt reached the 
repair stage yet and so there arent any settlement options in dispute for me to consider. But 
as a general point, I would note that this is a very common pair of options for insurers to give 
policyholders with buildings insurance claims. And I think theyre supported by the wording of 
Lloyds policy. So I dont think this is unfair in principle. A dispute may arise about exactly 
what work should be done and how much it should cost. But that hasnt happened yet so I 
can make no findings about it.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it was fair for Lloyds not to pay for a project 
manager or engineer to oversee the claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman