DRN-3135053
The complaint
Mrs D complains that in early 2020, following a review of whether her late husband should 
have been offered an enhanced annuity, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited said that she 
should have received a pension of over £4,000 per year after her late husband passed away 
in 2011.
It subsequently said it had made an error and Mrs D was only entitled to a protected rights 
pension of around £300 per year.
Mrs D is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
Mrs Ds late husband took out an annuity with Aviva in February 2009. The annuity included 
protected and non-protected rights. 
Mr D did not select a spouses pension on his non-protected rights pension pot. He chose a 
single life annuity with a five-year guarantee period. This meant that if Mr D passed away 
within five years of taking out the annuity Aviva would still pay the annuity due for five years 
from the date the payments started.
As Mr D was married a compulsory 50% spouses pension was included on the protected 
rights part of his pension pot.
Very sadly Mr D passed away in 2011. 
Aviva continued to pay the protected and non-protected rights pension to Mrs D until 2014, 
five years after Mr D had taken out the annuity.
From 2014 onwards it only paid Mrs D the 50% spouses pension payable on the protected 
rights part of Mr Ds pension.
In early 2020 Aviva wrote to Mrs D to say that it had been asked to carry out a review by the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to see if its annuity customers 
would have been eligible for an enhanced annuity. 
It then wrote to Mrs D to say that the review had identified that Mr D should have received an 
enhanced annuity of £4,208.06 each year. This was £528.50 per year more than Mr D had 
actually received. In order to put matters right Aviva said it would pay Mrs D a lump sum of 
£3,889.59, to compensate for the shortfall in the payments during the five-year guarantee 
period, plus interest.
It also said it would increase the annuity Mrs D received to £4,208.06 per year.
It is unclear why Aviva told Mrs D that she would receive an annuity of £4,208.06 each year 
as the non-protected rights annuity had been set up on a single life basis and did not include 
a spouses pension. 
When Mrs D didnt receive the increased annuity payment, she complained to Aviva. 
Aviva looked into Mrs Ds complaint and acknowledged that it had made a mistake. It 
explained that as Mr D had not chosen to include a spouses pension on the non-protected 
rights part of his pension, Mrs Ds pension would not be increased.
It apologised for the trouble and upset the incorrect information it had provided had caused. 
It explained that Mrs D was entitled to the lump sum payment of £3,889.59 to compensate 
her for the shortfall in the annuity payments that should have been paid during the five-year 
guarantee period, plus interest. 
In order to put matters right it offered to pay Mrs D £1,000 for the upset and loss of 
expectation that the incorrect information had caused.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and referred the matter to this service. Her 
representative said she felt that the non-protected rights annuity should have had a spouses 
pension attached to it and that Aviva should honour the £4,208 per year pension it had 
previously said Mrs D was entitled to.
Aviva said it didnt consent to this service looking into the annuity Mr D took out in 2009 as it 
said this complaint had been brought too late. It said Mrs D was aware in July 2013 that the 
non-protected rights annuity had been arranged on a single life basis with no spouses 
pension. 
It accepted that this service could consider Mrs Ds complaint about the incorrect information 
it provided to Mrs D when it wrote to her about the enhanced annuity Mr D would have been 
entitled to.
Our investigator explained that this service can only consider a complaint if it is referred to 
us within six years of the event complained about, or three years from the date the customer 
became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that they might have cause for 
complaint, unless exceptional circumstances had prevented the customer bringing their 
complaint any sooner. 
We can also consider a complaint brought outside these timescales if the business 
consents. As Aviva said it didnt agree to this service considering the sale of the annuity in 
2009, our investigator considered whether this part of Mrs Ds complaint had been made 
within the timescales this service must apply.
As the complaint had been brought more than six years after the sale of the annuity he 
considered when Mrs D became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that 
she might have cause to complain.
He noted that Mrs Ds representative had spoken to Aviva in June 2013 about the annuity 
Mrs D was receiving and asked Aviva to send copies of the options form Mr D had 
completed when the annuity was arranged. 
Aviva sent this information to Mrs D in July 2013. The information sent included a declaration 
signed by Mr D and illustrations for various annuity options. The records noted that Mr Ds 
marital status was missing, and it set out:
If you would like a revised illustration based on complete personal information, you should 
contact us on the phone number given in the letter accompanying this illustration.Our investigator said that he was of the view that if Mrs D had felt the policy had been set up 
incorrectly, or that Mr D should have been encouraged to consider adding a spouses 
pension to his annuity, when he arranged it in 2009 she ought reasonably to have been 
aware that she might have cause for complaint when she received the information from 
Aviva in July 2013. 
Under the rules this service must follow he said Mrs D had three years from this date to bring 
a complaint about this issue. As Mrs D didnt complain about this issue until 2020, he said he 
felt this aspect of Mrs Ds complaint had been brought too late for this service to be able to 
consider it.
The investigator also considered the incorrect information that Aviva gave Mrs D in 2020 
following its review of whether the late Mr D should have been offered an enhanced annuity.  
He noted that there was no dispute that Aviva had wrongly told Mrs D that she would receive 
an annual pension of over £4,000. But he said he felt the £1,000 Aviva had offered to pay 
Mrs D to compensate her for the distress, inconvenience and loss of expectation this had 
caused was fair and reasonable.
He said he had reviewed the loss assessment and redress calculation Aviva had provided 
and was satisfied that the calculation appeared to be correct. The calculation took account of 
the higher annual annuity Mr D should have received, multiplied by five to reflect the five-
year guarantee period attached to the annuity Mr D had selected, plus interest.
He also explained that as the annuity Mr D had selected for his non-protected rights didnt 
include a spouses pension Aviva should not have told Mrs D that she would receive an 
annuity of over £4,000 per year. Only the protected rights annuity had a spouses pension 
attached and Mrs D would continue to receive this pension, currently of £312 each year.
Mrs Ds representative didnt accept our investigators view. She explained that she didnt 
feel the complaint had been fully addressed. In particular, she said she didnt feel the 
investigator had fully considered:
 - the amount of pension [Mrs D] is currently receiving in light of the letter from 03.01.20; 
and,
- that we were not informed in 2013 that we had the option of raising a complaint.
Our investigator confirmed that the annuity Mrs D is receiving was correct and the amount 
quoted in the letter sent to Mrs D in January 2020 was wrong due to an error on Avivas part. 
He also said that there was no requirement on Aviva to tell Mrs D that she could complain. 
Mrs Ds representative was not satisfied with our investigators response and asked for the 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mrs Ds position and I have very carefully considered whether the higher 
pension amount quoted in the letter she received in January 2020 is correct.
Having reviewed all the available information I cant reasonably find that the amount quoted 
in the January 2020 letter was correct. Ill explain why.
When the late Mr D arranged this annuity in 2009, he chose to set up the non-protected 
rights part on a single life basis. A single life basis meant that the payments would stop when he passed away. It is usually the case that the pension paid is higher if it is set up on a 
single life basis, rather than with a dependents pension attached. 
The records also show that Mr D chose to take a slightly lower annual pension in order to 
guarantee that the full pension would be paid for five years, even if he were to pass away 
before the five-year anniversary of the pension. 
The issue is slightly complicated however, as there were two parts to Mr Ds pension, 
protected rights and non-protected rights. Protected rights refers to the part of the pension 
fund that Mr D had built up when he contracted out of the Second State Pension (this was 
previously known as the State Earnings Related Pension scheme or SERPS). As Mr D was 
married, Mrs D was entitled to a spouses pension on the protected-rights part of Mr Ds 
pension if Mr D pre-deceased her. It is this pension, currently around £300 per year that 
Mrs D has continued to receive.
Having very carefully considered all the information provided I am satisfied that the letter 
Aviva sent to Mrs D in January 2020 telling her that her pension would increase from around 
£3,600 to over £4,200 was wrong.
For reasons Aviva has been unable to explain, the amount it quoted in the letter was the 
annuity payment that Mr D would have received, if he had been offered an enhanced 
annuity. 
Despite knowing that Mr D had passed away, Aviva failed to reflect this in the annual annuity 
figure it quoted in the letter it sent to Mrs D about the outcome of the enhanced annuity 
review. 
I think the concern Mrs D has been caused would have been avoided if the letter Aviva sent 
Mrs D in January 2020 had been properly checked.
I appreciate that this error on Avivas part led Mrs D to think that the annuity payment she 
was receiving was going to increase significantly. It is not in dispute that Aviva should have 
carefully reviewed its records before it wrote to Mrs D telling her that her pension would 
increase by nearly £4,000 per year.
Aviva cant undo its error. It has apologised to Mrs D and offered to pay her £1,000 for the 
upset and loss of expectation its error has caused.
Where a business makes a mistake, as Aviva has done here, this service would usually look 
to put the customer back in the position they would have been in, but for the error. As I have 
explained, having considered all the information provided I am satisfied that the annual 
annuity figure quoted in the January 2020 letter was wrong. 
As this is the case, I cant reasonably require Aviva to honour this figure. But I do think it 
should compensate Mrs D for the upset and loss of expectation its error caused. Like our 
investigator, I think the £1,000 Aviva has offered to pay Mrs D is fair in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mrs D was hoping for, but I hope that my 
explanation will re-assure her that the annual annuity payment Aviva quoted in January 2020 
was incorrect.
I have also considered the points Mrs Ds representative has made regarding whether Aviva 
should have told Mrs D that she could complain, when she contacted it in 2013. I understand 
why Mrs Ds representative feels Aviva should have told Mrs D that she could complain, 
when she asked for information about the annuity Mr D had taken out. But I think that if Mrs D felt there was a problem with the annuity her late husband had taken out, or that it had 
been set up incorrectly, she was in a position to raise any concerns she might have had at 
that time, or within three years of receiving the information about the annuity the late Mr D 
had selected.
Mrs Ds representative has said that when she spoke to Aviva in 2013, she didnt know that 
she could make a complaint. But, having very carefully considered this point, I think that if 
Mrs D or her representative had felt that there was a problem with the annuity, they would 
have raised this with Aviva at that time. I dont think they were prevented from pursuing this 
matter within three years of July 2013 by a lack of awareness that they could complain.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. I 
simply leave it to Mrs D to decide if she now wishes to accept the offer Aviva has made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman