DRN-3739115
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited has declined a claim for theft under his business 
protection insurance policy 
What happened
In summary, Mr Hs van was stolen from his driveway. Ageas declined the claim due to a 
condition precedent not being met. This said that during the hours of 9pm and 6am the van 
needed to be secured building or compound.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 16 September 2022. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
Under the Tools All Risks and Stock in Transit Section of the policy there is a 
condition precedent - which means before any claim can be considered, the terms 
of that condition must be satisfied. The relevant condition says that between the 
hours of 9pm and 6am the van must be in a secured building or compound. The 
definition of a secure compound is an area that is fully enclosed by a secure 
perimeter wall or fence and securely locked gates.
Mr H argues the gates were secured by a sliding bolt across them and two down 
bolts into the concrete. He points out the definition does not mention the gates have 
to be locked via the means of a key operated lock.
The term locked isnt separately defined in the policy however, reasonably in this 
circumstance, I consider it to mean that something has become fixed in position and 
unable to move. Arguably by bolting the gates in the way Mr H has described, Mr H 
has met this definition as the gates do become fixed and unable to move. So, I dont 
think Ageas has fairly declined the claim on this basis.
Even if it can be said that Mr H did breach the condition precedent, the relevant law 
provides that if he can show this breach didnt increase the risk of loss, then the 
insurer cant rely on the condition as a reason to decline the claim. 
Ageas has acknowledged in its submissions that the gates are high, and a thief 
would need to climb over them to undo them regardless of how they were secured. 
Mr H has also confirmed that his neighbours CCTV was knocked out by the thieves. 
So arguably here, the thieves were determined and as such I dont believe even if 
there was a breach of the condition precedent it increased the risk of loss on this 
occasion. So, I think Ageas should now deal with the claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Ageas has also commented that the claim would fail under the in transit section of 
the policy as it only covers items in or on a vehicle that is parked or stationary for a 
period not exceeding 24 consecutive hours.
Ageas has said Mr Hs van was parked up for 32 hours, however based on the 
information gathered by Ageas from Mr H this is not correct. Mr H confirmed he 
parked the van up on Saturday after work and then moved it on the Sunday so he 
could wash his own car. Moving it back in the afternoon. He reports he noticed it was 
missing 5am on the Monday. So arguably, based on what Mr H has described, which
I have no reason to doubt as he has provided a detailed recollection, the van was 
neither stationary nor parked for over 24 hours, it was moved in between. So, I dont 
think Ageas can decline the claim on this basis either.
It is clear from his submissions that the claim being declined has had a significant 
impact on Mr H. While some of this is ultimately related to the impact of the theft 
itself, it is clear the claim being declined has caused Mr H additional trouble and 
upset. Therefore, I think Ageas should pay Mr H £200 compensation to reflect this
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H responded saying he accepted my decision. 
Ageas responded saying that although it accepted my points regarding the in transit section 
of the policy, it still did not think the claim should be paid as the condition precedent had not 
been met.  It said the Oxford English dictionary definition of locked or lock is join firmly or 
render immobile. It said it was of the opinion a sliding bolt did not meet that criteria and by 
not doing so, it was of the opinion Mr H potentially made it easier for the theft to take place. 
Ageas said it shouldnt need to define every word in the policy especially when there is a 
clear general understanding of the word.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Ageas choose not to define a word or term it believes to be important in the policy 
documentation then, as it has said, it would be reasonable to look at the general definition of 
the word or term. However, by doing so, this then means Ageas cant rely on what it intends 
the word or term to mean or thinks they should mean, depending on the circumstances of 
the claim. 
Ive considered the definition of locked that Ageas has provided  join firmly or render 
immobile - which is similar to what I set out in my provisional findings. Where I said I would 
take it to mean something becoming fixed and unable to move. So, given the definition is 
broadly the same, Im not persuaded this changes the reasoning I set out in my provisional 
findings as to why I think Mr H has met the condition precedent.  
And, given the circumstances of this claim and what did happen, Im also not persuaded the 
risk of loss was increased. 
So, as I remain of the opinion Mr H has met the condition precedent, Im satisfied Ageas 
should now reconsider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It 
shouldnt further decline the claim under the in transit section of the policy as it has now 
indicated it accepts my thoughts on this matter as also set out in my provisional decision.Mr H has been caused some trouble and upset by the claim being declined and it think 
Ageas should pay him £200 compensation to reflect this.  
Putting things right
To put things right Ageas should do the following:
Reconsider the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It 
shouldnt further decline the claim under the in transit section of the policy as it has 
now indicated it accepts my thoughts on this matter.
Pay Mr H £200 compensation
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited. I direct it 
to put matters right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman