DRN-4123741
The complaint
Mr M complains about end of contract charges when his hire agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services Limited ended.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
MBFS.
The agreement was extended twice and ended in October 2022.
Mr M expected the car to be collected on 24 October 2022, but it wasnt collected until 4 
November 2022.
Following collection, the car was inspected. MBFS asked Mr M to pay charges for damage 
which it said went beyond acceptable wear and tear, and for additional days hire.
Mr M disputed the charges. MBFS partially upheld the complaint. It said it would remove the 
additional days hire charges because there was an agreed contract extension. However, 
MBFS said the charges had been applied correctly.
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to this service. He said that because of the delays 
in collecting the car, hed incurred extra costs on fuel, insurance and cleaning the car. He 
also said hed taken time off work unnecessarily. To put things right Mr M wants MBFS to 
remove the charges. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that MBFS had applied the charges for 
damage fairly. He also said that he hadnt been able to find any record of the car being 
boked in for collection on 24 October 2022, only on 4 November 2022. In relation to the cost 
of fuel and insurance, the investigator said that Mr M would have had to pay insurance and 
fuel for whichever car he was driving at the time. In relation to cleaning the car, the 
investigator said that Mr M was under an obligation to return the car in clean condition, so it 
wasnt reasonable to ask MBFS to meet the cost.
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed expected the car to be collected on 24 October because this 
is what hed agreed with the representative. He said hed been obliged to insure the car in 
November because it hadnt been collected. Mr M asked this service to listen to the call hed 
had with the representative.
The investigator asked MBFS to provide the call, but MBFS said it didnt hold a record of the 
conversation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I unable to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the agreement. This says that when the car is returned it must meet MBFSs 
vehicle returns standards. Details of these are set out in the agreement. The agreement also 
says that Mr M would have to pay charges if he returned the car with damage which exceeds 
the vehicle returns standards.
Mr M agreed to the terms and conditions when he signed the agreement. So, Im satisfied 
that MBFs was allowed to charge for any damage which exceeded the relevant returns 
standards.
Ive gone on to consider whether the damage charged for exceeded that which was allowed 
under the vehicle returns standards. Ive looked at the inspection report and the photos. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that all of the damage exceeds the allowable damage set out in 
the vehicle returns standards. So, Im satisfied that its fair for MBFS to charge for the 
damage.
Ive considered the points made by Mr M about fuel, insurance and cleaning. I havent 
considered the extra days hire charges because MBFs has already removed these.
I appreciate that Mr M says it was agreed that the car would be collected on 24 October 
2022. He says he made himself available throughout the week waiting for the car to be 
collected, but it wasnt collected, which is when he incurred the extra costs.
Ive reviewed the contact notes provided by MBFS. These nothing to suggest that a 
collection was booked for 24 October 2022. Mr M has asked this service to listen to the 
telephone call between him and the representative in which he agreed a collection date of 24 
October 2022. Unfortunately, MBFS hasnt been able to provide this call. Because of the 
lack of evidence, Im not able to safely conclude that a collection was arranged on 24 
October 2022. But even if it was, the extra days hire that would have been charged until the 
car was collected on 4 November 2022 have already been removed by MBFS, which I think 
is fair.
In relation to fuel, theres nothing in the agreement which says that the value of any fuel left 
in the car will be refunded to the customer. It was up to Mr M how much fuel he left in the 
car. In any event, theres no record of how much fuel was in the car when it was returned, so 
I cant be satisfied that there was any fuel. And Mr M had the use of the car up until the day it 
was collected, so he had the opportunity to use any remaining fuel. For these reasons, Im 
unable to ask MBFS to refund the cost of any fuel.
In relation to insurance, Mr M wouldve had to pay to insure any car he was driving at the 
time, so whilst I appreciate his frustration at having to insure the car for longer than he 
expected, I dont think this is a cost which I can fairly ask MBFS to reimburse.
In relation to cleaning, the agreement says that Mr M has to return the car in clean condition. 
So, Mr M wouldve had to clean the car himself or arrange to have it cleaned in any event, 
and irrespective of any delay in the car being collected.
Taking everything into account, and for the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman