DRN-3624895
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say that Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society (and 
referred to here as CBS) unfairly declined their request to transfer their offset mortgage 
product onto a new mortgage.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs S would like CBS to compensate them for their financial 
losses. Although Mr and Mrs S initially only wanted compensation for solicitors fees, when 
the complaint was brought to our service, Mr and Mrs S thought they should be 
compensated for other losses too  erosion of equity in their property, having to move into 
temporary accommodation, having a worse range of properties to choose from, travel costs 
for the school run and the distress of the repercussions of CBSs actions on their vendors, as 
well as the personal distress they suffered.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 21 June 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs S being identified. Finally, CBS has 
accepted it made an error, and so I dont need to analyse the events in detail to ascertain 
whether or not CBS is at fault. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs S had an interest-only mortgage with CBS taken out in 2012, when they 
borrowed £140,000. The terms and conditions allowed them to offset savings against the 
mortgage; rather than earning interest on savings, the interest would instead be used 
against the mortgage repayments. The mortgage had been fully offset for some time. As a 
result, Mr and Mrs S had not needed to make a mortgage payment since December 2018, 
which was in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage.
In September 2020 Mr and Mrs S wanted to move house. On 24 September they asked CBS 
about porting their mortgage onto another property, and in addition reducing their borrowing 
to just over £94,000. They were given an agreement in principle by CBS, but on 15 October 
2020 the application was declined on the basis of affordability. 
Mr and Mrs S decided to withdraw from their purchase, which they say caused significant 
upset to the vendors, who had particular health issues and who had already arranged their 
own move. Mr and Mrs S went ahead with the sale of their property, which completed on 
4 November 2020 when the mortgage to CBS was redeemed. They moved into rented 
accommodation while they looked for a new property, which they bought on 15 June 2021.
Mr and Mrs S complained. In its final response letter CBS said that a like-for-like request to 
port a mortgage, with no extra money being borrowed and no substantial changes in 
personal circumstances is permitted. However, Mr and Mrs S were intending to use some of 
their savings towards their new purchase. As a result, and because theyd not made a 
payment since December 2018, CBS said that Mr and Mrs S werent able to show that the 
mortgage would be affordable.
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with another lender for their purchase and repaid their 
mortgage to CBS on 4 November 2020. They complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened. He thought CBS should have allowed the 
mortgage to be ported to the new property without an affordability assessment, because 
regulations permitted this. He asked CBS to pay Mr and Mrs Ss abortive legal fees of £350 
and £500 for trouble and upset. CBS agreed to do this.
However, Mr and Mrs S dont think the compensation was enough to compensate them for 
their losses. Theyve reiterated previous points they made about their financial losses, which 
I summarise below:
From the date CBS rejected their application to the date the offer on their new house 
was accepted (which was on 10 February 2021) prices rose by 9%, which resulted in a 
loss to them of just under £100,000, given they had sold their property for £927,000. 
Although they bought a less expensive property, the rise in prices forced them further 
down the ladder.
They had additional expenses for the school run (£402 per month), multiple journeys to 
search for a property and a longer commute to work (an addition 20 miles, 3 times a 
week.
They had to arrange a mortgage with another lender, which took time.
There was also the upheaval of living in rented accommodation, the effect on their 
daughter of living away from school and the upset at having to live in a less desirable 
area where prices dont increase as they do where they used to live.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin at the outset by explaining that an agreement in principle isnt a mortgage offer. So 
although Ive noted what Mr and Mrs S have said about CBS withdrawing its mortgage offer, 
there was, in fact, no mortgage offer on the property Mr and Mrs S had originally decided to 
buy. 
Where a mortgage product is being ported  in this case the offset product attached to 
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  this will always require an application to be made, and is subject 
to lending criteria.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has 
led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are contained 
in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go down. If 
theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, theres no 
obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And if there is a change to the terms 
of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a lender could still decide to allow an 
application without an affordability assessment if doing so would otherwise be in the 
borrowers best interests.
I agree with our investigator that the regulations meant that CBS should not have declined 
the application on the basis of affordability. The very nature of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage 
meant that, if they were fully offsetting their mortgage interest with savings interest, they 
wouldnt need to make a monthly repayment. Therefore, for CBS to decline the application 
by saying Mr and Mrs S hadnt been able to show they could afford the monthly repayment 
was unfair.
Putting things right
I note that CBS has accepted it made an error and agreed to reimburse Mr and Mrs Ss legal 
fees of £350, and pay compensation of £500, as recommended by the investigator.
Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs S have said about why they dont think is sufficient. However, 
Im not persuaded theres any basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to increase the 
compensation.I say this because it was Mr and Mrs Ss decision to go ahead with the sale of their property 
before theyd found another property to buy. So although I acknowledge they had additional 
expense for travel, and the upheaval of living in rented accommodation, Im afraid I cant 
hold CBS responsible for this. Mr and Mrs S werent under any obligation to sell their 
property before theyd found another  although I appreciate they might not have wanted to 
lose their buyer. But I cant see any basis on which I could fairly hold CBS responsible for 
the decision Mr and Mrs S made to continue with the sale of their property after the 
mortgage application was declined.
Given this, the consequential expenses Mr and Mrs S have claimed for the rise in property 
prices, upheaval and travel costs are not financial losses that I can attribute to CBS. I also 
cant order CBS to pay compensation for any distress suffered by Mr and Mrs Ss original 
vendors when Mr and Mrs S withdrew from the purchase; those vendors are not customers 
of CBS and a claim on their behalf cant be made by Mr and Mrs S. 
Overall, Im satisfied the compensation agreed to by CBS of £500 is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate in all the circumstances, in relation to distress and inconvenience, time wasted 
and trouble and upset.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Yorkshire 
Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs S £350 for their legal 
fees and £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I make no other order or 
award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman