DRN-3520650
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, are reporting missed 
payments to her credit file.
What happened
Mrs M had a Halifax credit account. In November 2018, she enlisted a debit charity who 
approached Halifax on her behalf and advised Halifax of the financial difficulties Mrs M was 
experiencing at that time. The debt charity also made an offer of reduced monthly payments 
to Halifax which it had assessed that Mrs M could reasonably afford.
Halifax agreed to accept the lower payments, but when Mrs M later checked her credit file, 
she noticed that Halifax had reported missed payments for November and December 2018. 
Mrs M wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mrs Ms complaint. But they felt that theyd reported the missed payments 
correctly, given that the monthly payments theyd received for those months were less than 
the monthly minimum payment contractually required on the account. 
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Halifax had acted 
unfairly in the reports that theyd made to Mrs Ms credit file, and so they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mrs M might feel that the missed payments for November and 
December 2018 shouldnt have been reported to her credit file by Halifax. Mrs M had been in 
financial difficulty at that time and had approached a debt charity who had worked with her to 
calculate the monthly amount that she could reasonably afford to pay to Halifax. And that 
debt charity had sent a letter to Halifax on 8 November 2018, explaining Mrs Ms 
circumstances and advising Halifax of the monthly amount Mrs M could afford to pay.
However, there are several other factors that need to be taken into consideration here. 
Firstly, the monthly payments for Mrs Ms Halifax account were due on the 15th of each 
month. And while the debt charity sent their letter to Halifax on 8 November, it wasnt 
received and actioned by Halifax until 22 November, which was after the payment for the 
month of November which had been due on 15 November had passed.
Its not known whether the delay in Halifax receiving the letter was because of postal delays 
or internal Halifax delays in working through received post, or both. But I feel that the other 
methods of contact that were available to Mrs M and her representatives to provide this 
important information to Halifax, including contact by telephone, would in all likelihood have 
prevented the information not being received by Halifax until after the monthly payment due 
date had passed, as occurred here. 
When Halifax did receive the letter from the debt charity, they responded to Mrs M in a letter 
dated 24 November 2018. This response explained that Mrs Ms account would now be 
passed to Halifaxs recoveries team and that while that happened Halifax would accept the 
reduced monthly payments as proposed by the debt charity effective from 21 December 
2018 (which was after the scheduled December monthly payment was due on 15 December 
2018). The letter from Halifax also included the following:
This payment concession is not contractually binding. This means that despite our
concession, the terms of your card agreement to make full monthly payments when 
they are due remain in full force.
This will also not stop a default being registered against you with the Credit 
Reference Agencies that we subscribe to.
The above clearly confirms that while Halifax would accept the reduced payments, the 
contractual requirement to make the full payments would remain in place. One consequence 
of this would be that the account would continue to be considered as being in arrears until 
the account was defaulted. This would mean that the reporting of arrears, which would 
include the reporting of missed payments, would be made to the credit reference agencies 
during that time. Halifaxs letter of 24 November 2018 confirmed this point under the heading 
Your credit reference file, as follows:
Your account will continue to be in arrears whilst we complete the transfer to 
Recoveries and therefore this information will be passed to the  Credit Reference 
Agencies.
Once the transfer is complete this information will include a default for this account, 
which will remain on your file for six years from the date of application or until the 
debt is repaid, whichever happens first.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Halifax did provide Mrs M with a clear explanation of how 
they would administer her account following the receipt of the letter from the debt charity. 
And Im similarly satisfied that this included that Halifax would report missed payments to the 
credit reference agencies. And, for the months about which Mrs M has complained here, she 
did make reduced payments towards her account that were less than the contractual 
minimum monthly payments required, such that Im satisfied that it was fair for Halifax to 
then report those payments as being missed.
Mrs M has questioned why Halifax cant amend their credit file reporting to show that she 
was in an arrangement to pay. I can appreciate why Mrs M might ask this question, but 
Halifax had explained to Mrs M that they intended to default her account, and it would be 
highly irregular to default an account that was being reported as being in an agreed payment 
arrangement. 
Such arrangements are usually reserved for instances where financial difficulties are thought 
likely to be temporary, such that the account holder would resume making full contractual 
repayments towards the account in the relatively near future. But in this instance Halifax 
didnt feel it was likely that Mrs M would be able to recover her financial position within a 
reasonable and resume making full contractual repayments within a reasonable time. And it 
was for these reasons that Halifax took the approach that they did, including their declaration that the payment concession they agreed to wasnt contractually binding, as per the 24 
November 2018 letter quoted above.
In essence, Halifax was accepting here that Mrs M would most likely not be able to resume 
making the contractual repayments required on the account moving forwards, and so they 
agreed to accept the proposed lower monthly repayments while they completed the 
regulatory process required of them to default the account.
Having considered all the information available to me here, Halifaxs actions in this regard 
seem reasonable to me. This is because in circumstances such as this, where a business 
has assessed that its account holder has little chance of repaying an outstanding balance 
moving forwards, it would be expected that the business would move to default the account 
at the earliest opportunity, rather than allow the account to remain in an active but indebted 
position indefinitely  which is generally considered to be more detrimental to the customer 
in the longer term than the defaulting of the account.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Halifax havent acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mrs M by reporting the missed payments to her credit file that they have. And it 
follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any 
further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs M was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman