DRN-3214455
The complaint
Mr T complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited hasnt fairly settled a claim he made on his 
household insurance policy following the loss of an item of jewellery.
What happened
Mr T holds a household insurance policy, which is provided by Fairmead. He incepted this 
policy on 9 January 2020 but hed previously held insurance elsewhere. The policy that is 
relevant to this claim ran from 15 January 2020 until 14 January 2021.
At the point of taking out the policy in question, Mr T purchased additional cover for specified 
personal possessions in and away from the home, which included wedding and 
engagement rings for £7500.
In July 2020, Mr T said his wife noticed that her engagement ring was missing. Shed last 
worn it on 30 June 2020 and it couldnt be found following a search of the family home. Mr T 
therefore reported the loss of the ring to Fairmead.
Fairmead requested proof of purchase, proof of ownership and a loss report from Mr T, 
which he provided on 21 July 2020. This evidence showed that Mr T purchased the missing 
ring in May 2006 for £4700 from a jeweller, which Ill refer to as A within this decision. Mr T 
also provided a valuation certificate from A, dated May 2006, which stated that the value of 
the ring was £7450. And he provided Fairmead with a quotation from A, which showed that it 
would cost £9350 to replace the lost ring.
After receiving information from Mr T about the value of missing ring, Fairmead repudiated 
the claim in full. It stated that an endorsement applied, because the value of the ring 
exceeded £5000. And it contended that Mr T hadnt complied with the requirements of the 
policy endorsement, which meant it wasnt able to settle his claim by replacing the ring.
Mr T wasnt happy with how Fairmead had dealt with and assessed his claim. So, he 
complained. He also provided Fairmead with an alternative quote dated December 2020, 
from a jeweller L, which stated the market value of the ring was £4900. And Mr T believed 
that this valuation and original receipt from A confirmed the ring was worth less than £5000. 
He thought this demonstrated that Fairmead had acted unfairly in repudiating his claim full. 
Fairmead didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It maintained its stance that the policy 
endorsement had been correctly applied to the claim and, because the terms of that 
endorsement hadnt been complied with, it didnt think it had made an error in declining to 
settle the claim in Mr Ts favour.
Being dissatisfied with how Fairmead had resolved his complaint, Mr T referred it to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the evidence and, noting the substantial 
difference in the valuations Mr T had obtained from A and L, asked Fairmead to obtain a 
jeweller valuation based on the information it had been provided about the lost ring. 
Fairmead approached a jeweller, J, who stated the ring would cost £7800 to replace.
After our investigator looked at the new valuation and all the evidence Mr T and Fairmead 
had provided they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. They thought Fairmead had 
acted fairly in applying the policy endorsement and were persuaded the terms of that 
endorsement hadnt been complied with by Mr T. So, they didnt think Fairmead had acted 
unreasonably in repudiating this claim. But Mr T didnt agree with our investigators view and 
asked that an ombudsman decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has sent submissions in response to our investigators view of his complaint. I want to 
assure him Ive read and considered everything that both he and Fairmead have sent when 
reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr Ts raised as Ive focused on 
what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr T wont take that as a discourtesy, my 
approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
I can appreciate why Mr T is disappointed with our investigators view of his complaint. Ive 
no doubt the loss of the ring was very distressing for him and his wife. It must have been 
doubly so when he was informed Fairmead had declined to settle his claim. However, my 
role is to assess whether I think Fairmead made a mistake, or treated Mr T unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and 
Fairmead have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Fairmead considered Mr Ts claim under the accidental loss section of his household policy 
given the circumstances he reported. And I think that was correct as its not in dispute that 
the engagement ring belonging to Mrs T was lost. However, theres a disagreement between 
Mr T and Fairmead about the correct outcome of this claim insofar as it relates to whether it 
was fair and reasonable to rely on a policy endorsement to repudiate this claim. 
The terms of Mr Ts insurance policy state that, if an equivalent item cannot be sourced, 
Fairmead will settle claims for lost property by paying the full replacement cost of the item. 
Im satisfied this is set out in clear, intelligible language on page 8 of the policy terms and 
conditions, which Mr T would have received at the time his policy was incepted.
Mr T provided evidence to Fairmead showing ownership of the lost ring. Its clear from what 
hes told Fairmead that he believes its acted unfairly in relying on a policy endorsement, 
which applies to items of jewellery over £5000, to repudiate his claim.
The terms of Mr Ts policy require any items worth more than £2000 to be insured under 
specified personal possessions. As I set out in the background to this complaint, Mr T 
purchased additional specified personal possessions cover in and away from his home for 
wedding and engagement rings in the sum of £7500. 
Its obvious that Mr T wanted to ensure the items he specified were insured while he and his 
wife were away from their home. The home insurance policy schedule, which was sent to Mr 
T at the time he incepted his policy, doesnt specify the value of these items of jewellery 
separately. But this isnt unusual. And Im satisfied the sum can cover multiple rings, which is 
what Mr T says he intended.
Because the value of personal possessions cover for wedding and engagement rings was 
£7500, Fairmead included an endorsement within Mr Ts policy. This endorsement imposed 
additional obligations on the policyholder for any items of jewellery where the value 
exceeded £5000. The endorsement in question is set out clearly on page 4 of the home insurance policy 
schedule Mr T was sent when he incepted his policy. Id have expected him to have read the 
schedule and seen the endorsement, which states:
There is no cover for accidental loss under personal possessions for individual items of 
jewellery or watches in excess of £5,000 unless:
The item(s) are inspected at least every 3 years by a competent jeweller
 Evidence of the inspection(s) and repairs must be retained.
Mr T argues that the value missing ring is under £5000 and therefore doesnt trigger this 
endorsement. 
Ive seen the receipts proving Mr T paid a £4700 for the ring in May 2006. And Ive also seen 
several valuation documents, which value the missing ring from between £4900 and £9350. 
Mr T provided Fairmead with a valuation for insurance certificate, which he obtained from A 
at the time he purchased the engagement ring for Mrs T. This certificate stated that the value 
of the ring was £7450. 
Mr T says he thought he should insure the ring for the purchase price. But I think the 
valuation from A, that he received at the point of sale, ought to have made him aware that 
the ring should have been insured for a lot more. And it was Mr Ts responsibility, as it is any 
for policyholder, to satisfy himself that he had sufficient insurance cover for the duration over 
which the missing ring was insured.
Mr T obtained a valuation from L, which stated the rings value was £4900. But I understand 
that L provided that valuation over the telephone. While L saw the original invoice from A 
and prior valuations, it didnt see any images of the missing ring. And the valuation it gave 
doesnt take into account the rate of appreciation of jewellery, which Fairmead says is 
around 5-6% annually. The valuation from A reflects appreciation increases over the years. 
So, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to place more reliance on As valuations.
I think our investigator was right to ask Fairmead to obtain a replacement cost valuation in 
view of the large difference between the valuations Mr T obtained from A and L. Fairmead 
approached J, who valued the lost ring based on the information Mr T had provided in 
support of its claim. 
Having taken all information into account, J stated the retail price of the ring was £9350. This 
is in line with As valuation and reflects the expected appreciation of the ring over the years. 
The valuation far exceeds the sum Mr T paid for the ring and I think it was reasonable for 
Fairmead to conclude that the replacement value of the ring far exceeded the threshold 
stipulated in the endorsement. 
In the overall circumstances, I dont think Fairmead acted unreasonably in applying a policy 
endorsement that applies to jewellery where its value exceeds £5000. And, as theres no 
evidence to suggest that Mr T had the missing ring inspected in compliance with the 
endorsement, Im persuaded its fair to allow Fairmead to rely on it to repudiate this claim. I 
therefore cant fairly uphold this complaint or as Fairmead to do anything further to resolve it.
I realise Mr T will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Fairmead informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr T 
further on this.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman