DRN-3409054
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked and closed Mr As accounts. He missed a 
mortgage payment and suffered financial hardship. It also affected his health. He would like 
compensation from HSBC.
What happened
Mr A had various accounts with HSBC including a credit card and a savings account.
On 20 May 2020 HSBC carried out a review on Mr As accounts. And Mr A wasnt able to 
access his accounts. HSBC wrote to Mr A on 26 May 2020 and gave him 60 days notice of 
its intention to close the accounts. The accounts remained block during that period.
Mr A was told by HSBC that he needed to contact them in order to reclaim his funds. Mr A 
provided HSBC with details of an account with another bank I will call N where he had 
opened a new account. Mr A told HSBC they should apply the credit on his current account 
to clear the credit card debt. 
On 28 May 2020 a mortgage payment was missed due to the account being blocked. HSBC 
confirmed it had rectified the entry on Mr As credit report.
The accounts were closed on 26 June 2020 and the remaining funds were returned to Mr A.
Mr A was unhappy that he hadnt been given notice of HSBCs intention to block the account 
and because of the covid 19 pandemic this had made things very difficult for Mr A.
Mr A told us that because of the block on the account Mr As direct debits didnt get paid. 
This resulted in some service providers cancelling their service to Mr A including his phone 
and broadband. Mr A also said his salary was paid into his HSBC account and that meant he 
didnt have access to his money whilst his account was blocked. He said he had to borrow 
money from family and friends.
Mr A complained to HSBC. They said they were entitled to block the account without giving 
Mr A notice and they hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr A complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. He said 
HSBC hadnt done anything wrong when they blocked and closed Mr As accounts. He 
thought HSBC had acted fairly when it rectified the credit report for the first mortgage 
payment missed on 28 May.  He didnt think HSBC were responsible for the second 
mortgage payment that had been missed because he thought Mr A could have arranged 
payment to reach the mortgage company on time, as the payment due date was after the 
notice to close was issued. 
Mr A was unhappy with the view. He said HSBC were not disclosing the reasons for the 
block and closure because they had no valid reasons to block and close his account. He 
also said his mortgage payment was due on the 28 June and the funds were released on the 
26 June. Mr A said he tried to pay the mortgage payment on the phone on the 27 June and 
again on the 29 June, but HSBC said that their system wasnt working that day. Mr A has 
said this is an excuse.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr As account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied HSBC were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr As accounts. 
I can see in blocking the account the bank were following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say HSBC was unfair. 
I know Mr A has said he would have liked HSBC to give him notice of their intention to block 
his account. I appreciate this would have been convenient for Mr A, but HSBC are not 
obliged to do so and I wouldnt have expected them to  so I cant say they acted 
unreasonably in blocking the accounts without notice.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
HSBC wrote to Mr A on 26 May 2020 and let him know it was closing his accounts giving 
him 60 days notice. I am aware that during that period the accounts remained blocked, so 
Ive considered whether HSBC were entitled to close the account with immediate effect. For 
HSBC to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate 
closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that the bank 
has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the accounts as its already done. 
I know that Mr A would like to know the reasons for the account closure. HSBC isnt required 
to give him a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say HSBC has done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr A this information  as much as hed like to know.
Cancellation of broadband. 
Mr A has said because some of his direct debits were not paid due to the block on the 
account his service providers in particular his broadband provider cancelled their service to 
him. 
I appreciate that early on during the pandemic being without broadband would have been 
very inconvenient to Mr A. Having said that I am satisfied that HSBC did nothing wrong when 
it blocked Mr As accounts so although I acknowledge the considerable inconvenience caused to Mr A, I cant say that HSBC can be held responsible for this.
Mortgage payments missed
Two mortgage payments were missed following the block on the account. This resulted in 
adverse entries on Mr As credit report. HSBC have cancelled one of these entries. Mr A 
requested that HSBC cancel the other adverse entry on the report. HSBC have said that 
although Mr A tried to contact them to pay the mortgage payment on 27 June 2020, it wasnt 
possible to pay that mortgage payment at that time. However, Mr A didnt contact them after 
that to pay the outstanding amount. 
I have listened to the call provided by HSBC and I acknowledge that only part of the call is 
available. I know the adviser provided Mr A with the direct phone number to the mortgage 
team. Mr A has said to us he didnt call back to arrange payment with the mortgage team. 
So, Im satisfied that he didnt.
Mr A has suggested it was HSBCs fault he was unable to pay his mortgage on time 
because their system wasnt working when he phoned them. But Mr A doesnt seem to have 
contacted the bank subsequent to the call on the 27 June 2020 to arrange the due payment. 
In addition, Mr A was provided with the number to call the relevant department directly and 
was aware that his mortgage payment was due. He also knew that his account had been 
blocked for a few weeks before the June payment was due. I think it would have been 
possible for Mr A to arrange the payment at an earlier date instead of leaving it until the last 
minute. Because of this I dont think I can hold HSBC liable for the late payment of Mr As 
mortgage, so I wont be asking them to remove the adverse credit file entry.
Mr A has mentioned that as a result of the block and closure of the account he has suffered 
a great deal of stress which has affected his health adversely. I am very sorry to hear Mr A is 
unwell and I appreciate that he had a lot of stress to deal with during a very difficult time at 
the start of the pandemic. However, I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly in blocking and 
closing his accounts. I dont think they are responsible for the adverse credit entry as Ive 
explained above. So, in summary I dont think they can be held liable for Mr As stress and 
health condition.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman