DRN-3298931
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) hasnt paid the 4% yearly 
guaranteed bonus which was promised. 
What happened
Mr T took out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) policy with Aviva 
(then Norwich Union) in 1992 with a single premium of £2,300 paid on 1 April 1992. It was 
invested in what is now the Aviva With-Profit Guaranteed (NU) Standard Series 1 Fund.   
Mr T complained to Aviva on 21 December 2020. Mr T got an email on 20 February 2021 
saying Aviva hadnt addressed his complaint but he could refer the matter to us which Mr T 
did on 22 April 2021. 
On his complaint form Mr T said Aviva hadnt provided the guaranteed 4% bonus every year. 
Hed taken out the policy on the basis there was a guaranteed regular minimum bonus of 4% 
each year which he understood to mean that the policy would increase in value by at least 
4% each year. During the early years thered been double digit returns. More recently hed 
looked into how the policy worked and hed found out that an overall bonus isnt guaranteed. 
Theres also a final bonus and poor performance in one year can reduce the policy value. 
Aviva issued its final response to Mr T on 5 May 2021. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. 
Aviva said the contributions purchased units in the With-Profits Fund. The unit price 
increases at a minimum 4% each year. For example over 2020 the unit price increased by 
4%: from £6.6857 on 31 December 2019 to £6.9531 on 31 December 2020. In addition, final 
bonuses may be added on exit or retirement. The unit price cant increase at a rate below 
4% but the final bonus can be reduced. Aviva explained what had happened in 2020 when 
thered been a bonus rate review and a reduction in policy values. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint but he didnt uphold it. His main points 
were:  
The fund value and the plan value werent the same.
The booklet available at the time said:
Norwich Union operates a With-Profits Fund in which units are available for allocation 
to this Policy after issue units will remain allocated to this Policy until the 
Retirement Date. The offer price and the bid price of these units will not decrease. 
The guaranteed rates of increase may be declared by Norwich Union from time to 
time to apply to units already in issue. The issue of units in the With-Profits Fund to 
this Policy may entitle the member to receive, in addition to the value of those units, 
further benefits by way of additional bonuses declared by Norwich Union for the 
Fund.
Aviva had said that each year the value of the units had increased by no less than 
4%.
The annual statement sent to Mr T on 15 July 2020 gave a plan value of £15,243.72.  
Later on the statement set out that the fund value represented the units Mr T had 
(1,422.4270) and each had a value of £6.8276. That meant the fund value was 
£9,711.76. Plus there was a final bonus of £5,531.95. The two figures combined 
made the plan value of £15,242.72.
The documentation at the time the plan was taken out specifically refers to the units 
which would be allocated to the plan. And that guaranteed rates would apply to those 
units. The guaranteed increase of 4% is being applied to the fund value. With-profit 
funds typically have the potential for additional bonuses or a final bonus. Theres 
nothing to suggest a final bonus was guaranteed. 
The 1998 leaflet about changes to bonus rates again refers to With-Profits Fund units 
increasing by a minimum of 4% each year for the pensions. Again, that was referring 
to the fund, not the plan, value. 
It might appear nuanced to separate the fund and plan values. But for with-profits 
funds, those two values are often different although to a lay person that might not be 
apparent. Its up to the financial adviser to explain the plan and the investments 
recommended. Here Aviva wasnt the adviser. 
Aviva offered a product with a guaranteed rate of return to the unit prices in the With-
Profits Fund. Investing in the With-Profits Fund gave the potential for variable 
additional bonuses. The combination of the two (the fund value and any bonuses) 
makes the plan value.  
Mr Ts expectation was that the 4% applied to the plan value but theres no evidence 
from the literature that Aviva had promised a guaranteed return of 4% each year for 
the overall plan value.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators view. His main points were:
Hed believed when he took out the FSAVC that it was guaranteed to increase by at 
least 4% pa. Even if Aviva is saying that was 4% over the lifetime of the policy, the 
policy and the supporting documentation was hugely misleading. 
At the time Norwich Union was offering returns of 14% pa. It made no sense to offer 
a 4% guarantee over the lifetime of the policy. He wouldnt have taken the policy on 
that basis. His policy had increased by 35% in the last five years. Any low/medium 
risk policy over any five year period would increase by more than 4%.
Some of the policy documentation was missing. For example, the policy schedule. 
And theres nothing which defines the 4% guarantee.
Risk isnt mentioned  the plan value can reduce from year to year. 
The terminology refers to units most of time but theres nothing to warn the customer 
these can be offset. Any final bonus and its relevance arent mentioned. 
The 1998 document starts with saying that the policy document explains about the 
guaranteed minimum yearly bonus rate of the plan. That implies there was a 
minimum bonus for the overall plan annually. 
The documents provided didnt mention any final bonus  just a reference to further 
benefits by way of additional bonuses declared by Norwich Union for the Fund. The 
final bonus mechanism and its potentially negative effect is hidden from the customer 
in the original promotion. 
It was dangerous to assess the original documents without the key one which defines 
the 4% guarantee. If Aviva wont provide that then the original documents support his 
case that the policy was set up on the basis there was a guaranteed annual return. At 
best, Aviva had tried to hide the real meaning and factors which could impact 
negatively on the plan. 
The investigator considered Mr Ts comments and obtained further information from Aviva 
before writing to Mr T again. In summary the investigator said:It wasnt disputed that, at the time Mr T had been advised to take out the FSAVC, the 
expected returns were significantly more than a 4% yearly guarantee. But it was a 
business commercial decision whether to offer a guarantee and if so how much. 
The investigator referred to the terms and conditions previously provided. And to a 
further brochure which wouldve been provided to a financial adviser. The 
investigator set out what it said (which I havent repeated here). 
The documentation says the unit prices are guaranteed to grow by 4% pa until the 
selected retirement date or death. The guarantee is not for the overall plan value, but 
specifically for the unit price. Theres nothing to show that Aviva stated that the 
overall plan was guaranteed to grow at a minimum amount. 
Avivas role was to provide information which, on balance, couldve been clearer. But 
much of the documentation was for use by an adviser when talking with a customer. 
Based on what the investigator had seen, he didnt agree the minimum 4% 
guaranteed increase to the unit prices was being offset. Mr Ts plan value was the 
underlying guaranteed increasing unit price plus a balance bonus payment. The latter 
wasnt guaranteed. 
The unit value will increase as stated in the technical specification: Currently a 
growth rate of 4% per annum until retirement or prior death is guaranteed for units 
once purchased. An Additional Bonus may be added to the Plan when the benefits 
become payable.
The investigator also referred to what a later technical specification document said 
about the With-Profit Fund and that there might be a market adjustment factor (MVA). 
But that didnt come into effect at the selected retirement date or earlier death. So, 
whilst there could be a reduction to the value realised from the units at other times, 
the guarantee of 4% pa until retirement or prior death remains.
Mr T remained unhappy. Amongst other things he said that the investigator had referred to 
generic documents and it was unclear how these related to his policy. And the technical 
specification dated February 1993 postdated his FSAVC and so was likely to apply to plans 
taken out after that date. It didnt seem right than a MVA could be unilaterally introduced into 
a policy which didnt have one initially. Mr T reiterated points hed previously made and 
which he didnt think had been answered. He said the investigator had initially stressed that 
the complaint wasnt judged on a legal basis but on what was reasonable. But, in the main, 
the investigators findings were legalistic and based on generic documents rather than Mr Ts 
specific policy. 
The investigator considered Mr Ts further comments but he wasnt prepared to change his 
view. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators views and the reasons he gave. Ive read and 
considered everything. But Ive focused on what I see as key  what increase was 
guaranteed when Mr T took out his FSAVC  and Im not going to comment on everything. 
I note Mr Ts comments about the investigator having taken a somewhat legalistic approach 
to the complaint. It is the case that we consider complaints on the basis of whats fair and 
reasonable. But were required to take into account the legal position. Mr Ts complaint is that Aviva hasnt honoured the terms of its guarantee. So it follows that our investigation of 
the complaint will focus on what Aviva promised and is contractually obliged to pay. 
And, as Mr T had an adviser in place, we arent looking at if the FSAVC and/or the 
underlying investment fund was suitable for Mr T. Any suggestion that Mr T was misled in 
terms of how the policy or indeed the fund worked is probably better directed at the adviser 
who sold the policy. Or if, as I think is the position here, the advisory firm no longer exists, 
making a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
That said, although Aviva didnt give any advice to Mr T, Aviva provided information about 
the FSAVC and the With-Profits Fund that Mr Ts contribution was invested in. Aviva had to 
provide correct information. 
Id point out that Im considering the complaint on the basis of what Avivas regulatory and 
other obligations were in at the time Mr T took out the FSAVC in 1992. Standards, including 
those relating to the provision of information, are probably higher now. But Im not judging 
things with the benefit of hindsight. And, over the years, the information given to investors 
will have been updated. A later version of a product brochure may explain things more 
clearly. That wont necessarily mean the earlier version must have been inadequate but may 
simply represent a policy of continuous improvement. 
Mr T says that, in the main, only generic information has been provided. But, I think thats 
usual. Mr T wouldve completed the application for the policy and, once the FSAVC had 
been set up, hed have received a letter confirming that and enclosing a copy of the terms 
and conditions. He wouldnt have had to sign a copy. Any schedule wouldve set out 
information pertaining to Mr Ts policy in particular. But its likely to have been limited to 
recording key details such as the date the policy was set up, the amount invested and the 
maturity date.
As the investigator has explained, Mr Ts contract with Aviva is twofold. As well as the 
FSAVC itself and the terms and conditions which apply to that particular type of pension 
plan, theres also the underlying fund which has been selected. I think Mr Ts issues relate to 
the underlying investment  the With-Profits Fund, rather than the FSAVC itself. 
Mr Ts single contribution has been invested in what is now the Aviva With-Profit Guaranteed 
(NU) Standard Series 1 Fund. Thats a pooled investment fund which means Mr Ts 
contribution has been combined with other investors money and used to invest in the 
underlying assets (and usually with-profits funds offer a mix of assets including equities, 
bonds, property etc). Typically with-profits fund investments offer some type of guarantee, 
such as a minimum guaranteed return, which can be lost if the investor switches out of the 
with-profits fund or transfers their policy before their selected retirement date. And a final or 
terminal bonus may be paid on maturity. Any final bonus wont be guaranteed. Although an 
indication as to what it might be paid can be given, it can be reduced and the exact amount 
wont be known until its actually paid.  
Again theres no signed contract relating to Mr Ts particular investment. When his FSAVC 
was set up, there was a choice of investment funds and the adviser can help the investor 
select a suitable fund which matches the investors attitude to risk. The adviser can explain 
how the fund operates, what it invests in and any features that are offered, such as any 
guarantees, and the risks and any penalties and charges. The investor should also receive 
information (booklets or leaflets) prepared by the provider about the product and investment 
choices. 
The investigator referred to the leaflets available at the time about the With-Profits Fund. It 
says the guaranteed rates of increase may be declared by Norwich Union from time to time to apply to units already in issue. As the investigator has explained, theres a distinction 
between the fund and the plan values. Mr T understood the guarantee to be in respect of his 
plan value. But the leaflet specifies that its the unit value which isnt the same. The units 
only make up part of the plan value. The balance is made up of any final bonus. I say any 
because the final bonus isnt guaranteed. The leaflet says the investor may be entitled to 
receive further benefits by way of additional bonuses declared by Norwich Union for the 
Fund. 
I know Mr T understood differently  that his plan value would increase by 4% pa  but that 
isnt what the information from Norwich Union said. The guarantee relates to the unit value. 
As the investigator recognised, the distinction might be subtle. But the information Ive seen 
says the guarantee applied to the unit value, not the overall plan value. 
Mr T says the guarantee was modest, compared to investment returns at the time. I think 
hes saying that endorsed his understanding that the guarantee must apply to the plan value. 
But if Norwich Union didnt promise that I cant say the guarantee should apply as Mr T 
thought and even though I dont disagree with what Mr T has said about a 4% guaranteed 
increase being modest given prevailing investment returns at the time. Whether any 
guarantee is offered and if so what and on what terms is a commercial decision for the 
business concerned. A pension is a long term investment and economic conditions change 
during the term. Double digit investment returns may have been usual when the policy was 
set up but later investment conditions havent been so favourable and a guaranteed 4% 
increase on units purchased would, at times, appear attractive.   
Mr T has said he wasnt told that there was a risk the value of his plan could fall. A fall in the 
plan value is a result of the way in which the investment works and that its made up of the 
fund value (calculated by reference to the number of units and the unit price) and any final 
bonus. While the unit price is guaranteed not to fall and must increase at a rate of at least 
4% pa, any final bonus isnt guaranteed. So any reduction will be reflected in the overall plan 
value.
I dont agree that means the guaranteed increase is offset. Or that anything has been 
hidden from the consumer. Put simply, the unit price is guaranteed to increase by 4% pa. 
Anything else, including any final bonus, wasnt guaranteed. All things being equal, both 
elements would increase. But, because the final bonus wasnt guaranteed, it could reduce. 
That meant there was no guarantee that the overall value of the plan wouldnt fall from one 
year to another. An indication of the final bonus is given on the annual statements provided 
throughout the life of the policy. But, because the final bonus isnt guaranteed, it can be 
reduced which might mean a fall in the overall plan value. 
Mr T has suggested the information was misleading. What Ive seen is limited (but that may 
to some extent be understandable given the passage of time). But I cant say it was 
misleading. Read carefully I think it did reflect how things worked. The actual figure of 4% 
isnt mentioned in all the documents. But I dont theres any dispute that was the guaranteed 
percentage increase. The dispute is about if it applied to just the fund value (that is the units 
held) or the overall plan value. Mr T has also mentioned the MVA. But I dont think thats 
really within the scope of his complaint or relevant given that the guarantee of 4% pa until 
normal retirement remains.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make any award. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman