DRN-3711340
The complaint
Mr B complains about the poor service he received when Vanguard Asset Management Ltd 
was instructed to transfer his ISA to a new provider. He says:
Vanguard caused delays which meant it took around six months for the transfer to be 
completed.
He complained to Vanguard in January 2022, but it wouldnt investigate his complaint 
until the transfer had been completed.
Vanguard wouldnt transfer the cash held in his ISA until the investments had been 
transferred. This meant he didnt hold money with F to meet its fees.
He wants compensation for the time he had to take to try to resolve matters, and for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
What happened
The investigator set out a detailed timeline of what happened and Im not going to repeat 
that again here. In brief summary, in November 2021, Mr B instructed his new ISA provider, 
who Ill refer to as F, that he wanted to transfer his ISA from Vanguard. His ISA contained 
two funds and a cash balance. The funds were transferred on 28 January and 12 April 2022, 
and the cash was transferred on 10 May 2022.
During this period, Mr B was in regular contact with both F and Vanguard to try to progress 
the transfer.
Once the transfer had been completed, Vanguard investigated Mr Bs complaint and found 
that it had caused delays  of around 63 business days. It apologised and initially paid Mr B 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. In response to Mr Bs further 
communication, it said it hadnt fully considered how much time Mr B had spent in 
exchanging messages and paid him an additional £100. And it refunded its fees charged 
after 1 February 2022  the date it said the transfer would have completed if Vanguard 
hadnt caused any delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She concluded the 
amount Vanguard had compensated Mr B was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He replied in some detail to say, in summary, that the £250 award is 
reasonable for the stress he was caused. But he needs to be compensated for:
The inconvenience he was caused because Vanguard wouldnt investigate his complaint 
until the transfer was complete. Vanguard breached various DISP rules in failing to 
investigate his complaint until the transfer was complete and prevented remedial action 
from being taken which may have stopped further delay.
The time he spent, from January to May, proactively trying to reduce further delays while 
his investments were effectively frozen in a volatile market.
The time he spent setting out his complaint to this service  he wouldnt have needed to 
spend so long if Vanguard had investigated his complaint when he raised it. And he had 
to refer his complaint to us when he did, because Vanguard had told him in March 2022 
that he only had six months to refer his complaint (even though Vanguard hadnt 
investigated it at that point).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, Im aware Mr B referred a complaint to us about the delays caused by F and that 
he accepted its offer of compensation. This complaint is only about the actions, and 
inactions, of Vanguard.
Whilst F accepted it caused some of the delay, Vanguard also accepts that it caused delays 
at several stages of the transfer process. It says that, if it hadnt caused the delays it did, the 
transfer would have been completed by 1 February, rather than the actual date of 10 May. 
Mr B quotes the government deadline of 30 calendar days. The wording on the government 
website about ISA transfers says that a transfer should take no longer than 30 calendar 
days. But there will be circumstances where this isnt possible and there will be actions 
required by other parties which may cause delays, and which are largely out of the 
businesss control. Taking into account that F hadnt provided everything Vanguard needed 
to progress the transfer until 13 December, I dont think Vanguards 1 February date is 
unreasonable. This means, if Vanguard had acted reasonably, the transfer would have been 
completed more than three months earlier than it was.
Ive considered very carefully what Mr B has told us about the impact of the delay him  both 
in time and stress  and Vanguards decision not to investigate his complaint until the 
transfer was complete.
I can see Mr B was in regular contact with Vanguard from January 2022 in an attempt to 
progress the transfer. He was involved in more than 60 exchanges with Vanguard and F 
during this period. This had an impact on his time over a protracted period.
And I understand what Mr B means when he says his investments were effectively frozen. 
He accepts he could have given instructions to sell his funds during this period, but this most 
likely would have led to an increased delay. And, whilst markets were volatile, he wanted the 
reassurance that he could easily sell his investments if he wanted to. Mr B accepts the 
transfer delay didnt cause him a financial loss  and I cant award compensation for 
something he may have wanted to do but didnt. But I accept the extended delay was 
worrying for him.When Mr B complained about the delay in January 2022, Vanguard decided not to 
investigate his complaint until the transfer had been completed. I can see why, at the time, 
Vanguard thought it would be better to wait until everything had been finalised, rather than 
trying to investigate an incomplete process. And I cant conclude with any certainty that 
investigating the complaint at an earlier stage would have avoided further delays. Had 
Vanguards complaints team realised how much longer the transfer was going to take, it 
may have decided to investigate sooner than it did. But thats only clear with the benefit of 
hindsight.
Whilst Vanguard hadnt investigated his complaint, after eight weeks it was obliged to tell 
Mr B that he could refer his complaint to this service. And it was obliged to tell him he had six 
months in which to do so. When Vanguard investigated the complaint, after the transfer was 
complete, and issued its final response letter, that six-month clock restarted. In the 
meantime, Mr B had already referred his complaint to us  because he didnt want to miss 
the deadline. I dont think Mr B acted unreasonably in referring his complaint to us. He says 
he should be compensated because of the time it took him to organise and submit all of the 
information. But I think its unlikely Mr B would have been in a different position if hed waited 
for the final response letter, and if that final response letter had been issued earlier. I say 
that because Mr B didnt agree with the outcome of Vanguards complaint investigation and, 
whilst that final response letter included some detail, it didnt include a full timeline. So I think 
Mr B would always have wanted to provide us with a detailed submission. And, as he knows, 
we dont compensate consumers for the costs of bringing a complaint.
I dont underestimate the distress and inconvenience the delay in the ISA transfer caused 
Mr B. But, considering all the circumstances, I find £250 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. Vanguard also refunded its charges for the period from 1 February 2022, 
amounting to £10. I think this was reasonable and I dont find Vanguard is obliged to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman