DRN-4196826
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the quality of a tablet he bought using his credit card supplied by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)
What happened
Mr L bought a tablet in November 2017 using a credit card supplied by Lloyds. 
Mr L tells us that around six months after he bought the tablet, he discovered dust particles 
underneath the camera. He says although there was no noticeable impact on the camera 
function initially, over time, the image quality got worse. He says the battery life also became 
weak and there were issues with overheating too. He said when he contacted the 
manufacturer, it said there would be charge for a replacement as, by then, the tablet was 
over 12 months old. As he couldnt resolve this directly with the manufacturer, he contacted 
Lloyds in November 2019.
Lloyds told him he needed to get an independent report. Mr L says this took some time 
because of the pandemic, but he eventually managed to get this to Lloyds in November 
2022. 
Lloyds rejected the claim and sent a final response letter in November 2022. In summary it 
said whilst it appreciated the issues with the battery life and overheating, the independent 
report obtained by Mr L didnt support the claim that there was an inherent manufacturing 
fault with the tablet. It reimbursed him for the report and offered £30 for poor service when it 
referred incorrectly to an item on a separate claim.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr L decided to bring the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into things but didnt think there was sufficient evidence to uphold the 
complaint. She noted the independent report, but ultimately concluded there wasnt enough 
evidence to say the issues Mr L was experiencing with his tablet was a manufacturing fault. 
The investigator explained that the report Mr L obtained was five years after purchase and 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to say the faults were there, at the time of purchase, and so 
she didnt make any recommendations.
Mr L didnt agree. In summary, he thinks the issues with the tablet, along with the 
independent report and initial contact with the manufacturer shows that there is a 
manufacturing fault with the tablet. He considers that the product should be fit for intended 
use for at least six years so feels he should be refunded.
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects consumers who buy 
goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally 
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant. It implies terms into the contract that 
goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  
taking into account the description of the goods, the price or other consideration for the 
goods (if relevant) and all other relevant circumstances. Satisfactory quality also refers to the 
durability of the goods.
The CRA says that any fault that appears within six months of supply is considered to have 
been present at the point of supply  unless theres evidence to the contrary. After six 
months its for Mr L to show that any faults found are likely to have been present from the 
outset.
In this case the tablet was new when Mr L bought it. So, it should have been free from even 
minor defects and been durable. Given the issues appeared to have happened after six 
months and werent reported to the manufacturer first until around a year and a half later, Id 
need to see sufficient evidence from Mr L to demonstrate the tablet wasnt of satisfactory 
quality, when it was sold to him, in order to say thered been a breach of contract. 
So, Ive gone on to think about the evidence supplied by Mr L relating to the diagnosis of the 
problem from the independent report. Whilst I appreciate the report verifies that there are 
problems with the tablet, the report itself doesnt state that the issues were inevitable from 
purchase or likely to have been present at the point of sale. And so, theres insufficient 
evidence from this report, for me to conclude that the problems mentioned were present or 
developing at the point of sale.
Mr L also mentioned hed contacted the manufacturer who he says agreed the tablet was 
faulty. Again, I havent seen any evidence from the manufacturer to say the tablet was faulty 
at the point of purchase or that there was an inherent fault with the tablet. 
While I can understand why Mr L was disappointed, given the time taken for the faults to 
manifest, Ive not unfortunately seen enough evidence to demonstrate the tablet wasnt 
sufficiently durable or that the faults mentioned were something that made the tablet of 
unsatisfactory quality when Mr L bought it.
Ive also noted Mr L has mentioned he should be covered for six years. There is legislation in 
England and Wales that relates to there being a limitation on making certain claims within six 
years. 
But the legislation thats most relevant here  the CRA  doesnt say that goods purchased 
by consumers should be covered for six years. 
I think its fair to say that sometimes with electronic goods, its possible certain components 
reach the end of their life expectancy before others  something which can vary significantly 
based on a number of factors, including the frequency with which theyre used and the 
environment theyre used in. I cant say for sure what caused the faults with Mr Ls tablet. 
But, given the time it took for the faults to occur as well as the lack of persuasive evidence 
as to the cause, Im not persuaded the device supplied was of unsatisfactory quality  either 
when supplied or on the grounds of durability. As a result, I cannot fairly require Lloyds to do 
any more.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr Ls situation, I have to weigh up all of the evidence and having 
done so, I dont find theres sufficient evidence of a breach of contract for which Lloyds would be liable for under Section 75. This means I cant fairly require Lloyds to provide a 
refund or do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman