DRN-3896146
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) 
handled an account review. Mr S says mistakes by Amex led to his account being closed.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In October 2021 Amex contacted Mr S and asked him to provide some personal information 
and identification documents as part of a Know Your Customer (KYC) review of his account. 
Amex said it would terminate Mr S account if the information wasnt supplied within two 
months.
Mr S has told us he quickly submitted a copy of his passport, bank statement and other 
supporting information to comply with Amexs request. A short time later, Amex sent Mr S an 
email that said the information hed supplied was either invalid or illegible. Amexs email 
directed Mr S to its website and asked him to submit a clear copy of his identification and 
address document. Amexs email said Mr Ss credit card facility would be suspended then 
closed if he didnt comply.
A few days later, Mr S entered an online chat with Amex as he wanted to know what 
documents were unacceptable. The agent agreed to email Amexs KYC team.
Mr S didnt hear back from Amex so ten days later entered another online chat and asked 
about whether his documents had been received. The agent explained the KYC team had 
received Mr S documents and was completing the work required. Mr S was asked to wait.
After another 10 days, Amex emailed Mr S again to say his documents were either invalid or 
illegible. The email was the same as the one Amex had previously sent. Mr S again 
discussed the documents hed submitted via an online chat with Amex. Mr S asked the 
agent to confirm the specific issue with the information provided.
During the chat, the agent said Mr S also needed to submit verification documents for the 
additional card holder.
Around a week later, Amex suspended the account. Mr S contacted Amex which said its 
KYC team would be in touch. Mr S called back around 10 days later after no contact was 
received. On 22 December 2021 Mr S had another online chat with Amex. The agent said 
the block would be removed within 24 hours if the KYC team was satisfied with the 
documents Mr S had submitted. The suspension was removed the following day.
A month later, Amex emailed Mr S and said hed submitted some but not all the information 
required. No list of outstanding items was issued. The email warned Mr S account would be 
closed if he didnt provide the information by the end of February 2022. The email also said 
that if the information missing related to the additional account holder, their card would be 
cancelled at the end of February 2022 but the account would remain open.
Mr S told us he thought the missing items related to the additional card holder so didnt take 
further steps, beyond confirming to Amex he was happy for their card to be cancelled. At the 
beginning of March 2022 Mr S called Amex and asked what was missing. Mr S told us he 
was again given a generic answer. The account was closed by Amex a short time later. 
Mr S went on to raise a complaint but Amex didnt agree it had acted unfairly or made 
mistakes with the way it had requested information and closed his account. Amex ultimately 
said Mr S had failed to complete a form from its website when completing the verification 
process.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint. They thought Amex had dealt with it 
fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked to appeal and said hed supplied 
everything Amex had asked for and gone back to it on at least five occasions to try and 
understand what was going wrong. Mr S also pointed out he has other accounts with Amex 
that werent impacted by its KYC review or closed. As Mr S asked to appeal, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken some time to set out some of the background above as I wanted to show that Mr S 
was proactive in submitting documents and contacting Amex. Mr S told us he kept receiving 
generic responses from Amex that just said the documents supplied were either illegible, 
incomplete or invalid. I can see Mr Ss growing frustration with being told the documents hed 
sent in werent right without any specific guidance. In my view, Amexs actions and decision 
to close his account were unfair.
I understand Amex contacted Mr S each time after it reviewed his submissions. But after Mr 
S responded to specifically ask what information was missing or if other information was 
required, it shouldve been clear he needed guidance. Instead, Amex repeatedly sent the 
same emails that didnt explain why his submissions were rejected. 
I can see no reason why Amex couldnt have gone back to Mr S with a specific response 
setting out outstanding information and instructions after he asked for help. I can also 
understand why Mr S is upset that the outstanding document was a form from Amexs 
website. I appreciate the website contains guidance that says the form should also be 
completed. But no one at Amex actually told Mr S that. It is obvious that Mr S wasnt aware 
he needed to supply the form, in addition to the documentation Amex requested.
My view is that Mr S was able and willing to comply with Amexs requests but needed help. 
And I think he shouldve been able to rely on Amex, over the course of around five months, 
to contact him with the relevant guidance following previously failed attempts to complete the 
process. Had Amex called Mr S, emailed him a specific set of steps and documents required 
or written to him I think its more likely than not he wouldve been able to comply and his 
account wouldnt have been terminated. Based on the information Ive seen so far I intend to 
uphold Mr S complaint.
Mr S has told us hed like his account to be reopened. But now the account has been 
terminated, reopening it would likely require a new application to be completed. I understand 
this will cause further inconvenience to Mr S and Ive factored this into my decision.I can see Mr S spent a lot of time trying to resolve matters with Amex and that the way his 
queries were handled caused a reasonable level of frustration. I also think its fair to note 
Amex first requested information from Mr S in October 2021 and then closed his account in 
March 2022, around five months. In addition, Mr S ultimately lost the use of his credit card.
Taking all the above factors into account, I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct 
Amex to pay him £300. In my view, that figure fairly recognises the impact of the issues Ive 
noted above on Mr S and the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) 
handled an account review. Mr S says mistakes by Amex led to his account being closed.
I asked both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mr S responded to confirm he was willing to 
accept. We didnt hear back from Amex. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me new information to consider, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr S complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint and direct American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) to pay him £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman