DRN-2715488
The complaint
This complaint is about an abortive application Ms M made for a consumer buy-to-let 
mortgage. The transaction, which was recommended by a broker representing Affinity 
Mortgages Limited, fell through because Ms Ms circumstances didnt meet the selected 
lenders lending criteria on affordability. Shes seeking a refund of the fee she paid Affinity to 
submit the application to the lender.
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute the fee was non-refundable, and Im satisfied Affinity made that known at 
the outset. Im also satisfied that Affinity had carried out both of the steps at which it was 
entitled to collect the fee.
Ms M argues that Affinity failed to carry out a proper affordability assessment. This led, she 
says, to Affinity collecting a non-refundable fee from her for an application that, based on her 
circumstances, had no realistic prospect of succeeding. She doesnt believe Affinity is right 
when it says a change in the amount she intended to borrow on her residential mortgage 
was what caused the problem. 
Ms M maintains that even at the initial amount she planned to borrow on her residential 
mortgage, the BTL lender would not have been willing to lend the amount she needed. That 
being the case, she maintains the fee was collected in error and must be refunded. Thats 
the crux of the dispute, and the point on which the complaint turns. 
Ive given that a great deal of thought, and considered what both parties have said and 
provided. Having done so, Ive some disappointing news for Ms M. 
The BTL lender had issued a decision in principle indicating its willingness to lend the 
amount Ms M needed. A decision in principle isnt a guarantee of lending; its generally 
conditional upon certain items of provisional and/or unknown information being confirmed, 
and that was the case here. However, the amount of Ms Ms residential mortgage wasnt one 
of those unconfirmed or unknown factors. 
When the BTL lender issued its decision in principle to lend the amount Ms M wanted, that 
was based on the assumption that Ms Ms residential mortgage would be the initial amount 
shed given to Affinity. That changed when Ms M told Affinity that the amount she planned to 
borrow on the residential side was now about 18% higher than had been the case when the 
decision in principle was issued.
Overall, Im not convinced that at the time of collecting the non-refundable fee, Affinity had 
any reason to think Ms Ms BTL application wouldnt succeed. And I certainly dont believe it 
collected a fee for an application that had no realistic prospect of succeeding.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman