DRN-4432705
Complaint
Ms S has complained about a loan Metro Bank PLCs subsidiaries (Ratesetter) arranged 
for her. 
Metro Bank has accepted responsibility for this complaint even though it was arranged by 
Ratesetter in 2019. So for ease of reference, I will refer to Ratesetter in this decision.
Ms S says that the loan that was arranged for her was unaffordable and therefore shouldnt 
have been provided bearing in mind her credit history.
Background
In February 2019, Ratesetter operated the electronic platform in relation to lending which led 
to Ms S being provided with a loan for £10,500.00. This loan had a 48-month term and an 
APR of 6.9%. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £12,006.24, which included a 
loan fee of £657.30 and interest of £848.94, was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments 
of £250.13. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Ms S and Ratesetter had told us. And she thought 
that Ratesetter hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms S unfairly when bringing about this 
loan for Ms S. So she didnt recommend that Ms S complaint be upheld. 
Ms S disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms S complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Ive decided not to uphold Ms S complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Ratesetter needed to make sure that it didnt bring about Ms S loan irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Ratesetter needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Ms S could make her payments in a sustainable manner before 
approving her loan. And if the checks Ratesetter carried out werent sufficient, I then need to 
consider what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for pre-lending checks to be less thorough 
 in terms of how much information is gathered and what is done to verify that information  
in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think a firm needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, 
the amount lent was high, or the information it had  such as a significantly impaired credit 
history  suggested the firm needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to 
repay what they were being lent. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Ms S complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Ratesetter says it agreed to Ms S application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out. In its view, all of this information showed Ms S 
could comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Ms S 
has said she shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms S and Ratesetter have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Ms S first loan with Ratesetter. The information 
provided does suggest Ms S was asked to provide some details regarding her income and 
expenditure and Ratesetter didnt just rely on what it was told as it carried out credit 
searches too. 
Ratesetter has provided a copy of the credit search that it carried out and its fair to say that 
Ms S existing credit was relatively well managed. She didnt appear to have any recent late 
or missed payments and she was using less than a third of the available credit available to 
her on her revolving credit accounts. 
And while I accept that Ms S might have had historic difficulties repaying credit, this didnt 
show up in the credit search. Furthermore, Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that 
Ratesetter wasnt aware of any recent difficulties with credit or over indebtedness on the part 
of Miss S as nothing like this appears to be reflected in the interest rate Ms S received on 
this loan.
I also think that its important for me to explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a firm did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I think that Ratesetter was 
entitled to rely on what it had been told and what it had found out about Ms S. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Ratesetter did anything wrong when bringing about         
Ms S loan - it carried out proportionate checks (although I accept Ms S doesnt agree with 
this) and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were 
affordable. 
So overall and having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Ratesetter treated   
Ms S unfairly or unreasonably when bringing about her loan. And Im not upholding Ms S 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Ms S. But I hope shell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman