DRN-3090295
The complaint
Ms S complains that she was misled about the battery range (in miles) of an electric car that 
she was supplied with under a hire purchase agreement (agreement) with Black Horse 
Limited (Black Horse). And that the range being returned from the battery means the car, 
when supplied to her, was of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
In December 2020 Ms S entered into an agreement with Black Horse for the supply of a 
used electric car costing £9,799. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being 
equal, Ms S undertook to pay a deposit of £1,301 followed by 48 monthly payments of 
£224.60  making a total repayable of £12,081.80 at an APR of 12.9%.
Prior to being supplied the car Ms S asked the dealership what the battery range was. She 
has told us that she was looking to be able to take her daughter to school (a round trip of 64 
miles) on a single charge.
Based on a recoding provided to our service the dealership explained that the manufacturer 
suggests a battery range of 155 miles. But given the cars age (and mileage already on the 
odometer) the battery range was more likely to be between 90 and 110 and this in turn was 
dependent on a number of other factors.
In March 2021 Ms S contacted Black Horse to complain about the battery range. She 
complained that the battery wasnt performing as it should (a quality issue) and that she was 
misled by the dealership as to what the battery range was, or would be.
In May 2021 Black Horse issued Ms S with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Black Horse said it was satisfied that there were no issues with the battery  
meaning the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied to Ms S  and she hadnt been 
misled by the dealership about the battery range.
Unhappy with Black Horses FRL Ms S referred her complaint to our service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator came to the view that the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms S and she hadnt been misled  by the 
dealership  as to what the battery range might reasonably be.
Ms didnt agree with the investigators view so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator 
and for the same reasons.
I would also like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. I would also add that where 
the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory Ive to base my decision on 
the balance of probabilities.
was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms S?
Ms S was supplied with the car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.
The relevant legislation says that Black Horse are responsible for supplying Ms S with a
car that is of satisfactory quality. But whats considered satisfactory will depend on a range
of factors. These would include things like the age and mileage of the car when it was
supplied, its overall condition and the price paid.
The car was around three years old at the time of supply and had covered approximately 
50,000 miles. This was reflected in the cash price which was a lot less than what it would 
have cost brand new. So, what would be considered satisfactory for this car would be very
different to a brand new one.
Youd still expect a second-hand car to be free from faults. But you would expect certain
components to be more worn and in need of replacement sooner. There might also be a
reasonable expectation that more regular maintenance might be required and that some
parts would be more prone to failure, or deterioration, as they were nearer the end of their 
expected life cycle.
Black Horse has provided evidence that in March 2021 the dealership tested the car and 
found no fault with the battery, the battery was able to take and hold a full charge and the 
range was recorded on the dashboard as being just over 100 miles.
So with the above in mind, and given that:
Ms S herself says the dashboard often recorded a range of over 100 miles following 
a charge
that the battery would have suffered some deterioration from new
what the manufacturer says would have been the battery range when the car was 
new
what the supplying dealership says would have been the battery range when the car 
was supplied to Ms S
Im satisfied that there was no fault with the car in March 2021 or when Ms S was supplied it 
in December 2020.
Was Ms S misled about the battery range?
Ms S says she was misled by the dealership about the battery range. But I dont agree. Having listened to the recording supplied to our service Im satisfied that the dealership 
made it clear to Ms S that the battery wouldnt return a 155 mile charge but somewhere 
closer to 100. And that this range could be less in certain circumstances, for example speed, 
braking, terrain, weight and features being used (air conditioning, heating, radio etc). So Im 
not persuaded Ms S was misled in this respect.
I appreciate Ms S will be disappointed by my findings, but given what I say above Im 
satisfied that Ms S wasnt supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality and 
furthermore she wasnt misled about the battery range.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman