DRN-1639206
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Tesco Personal Finance Plc dealt with his request that it unlock 
his credit card PIN while he was abroad. He's also concerned he was mis-sold his credit 
card.
What happened
Mr M took out a credit card online with Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco), which he 
intended to use while abroad.
On 19 July 2019 Mr M contacted Tesco over the telephone to explain hed accidentally 
blocked his PIN when booking into his hotel. Mr M was abroad at the time and so he was 
reliant on his Tesco credit card. During this conversation Tesco informed Mr M it wasnt able 
to provide a PIN reminder over the telephone. So, a reminder was posted to his home 
address. 
Tesco told Mr M that its unblocking procedure was a two stage process. It said it had 
completed the first stage by unblocking his card at its end.
A member of Mr Ms family forwarded the PIN Tesco had posted to his home address to Mr 
M. When he telephoned Tesco, on 26 July 2019, it told him hed need to find a Mastercard 
approved ATM in order to complete the second stage of the PIN unlocking process, which 
would enable the PIN to work.
On 28 July 2019 Mr M contacted Tesco again by telephone to explain that he hadnt been 
able to unlock his PIN. He was provided with a list of Mastercard ATMs locally to assist with 
that process.
On 31 July 2019 Mr M telephone Tesco again to explain that he still couldnt unlock his pin. 
During this call Tesco said it informed him that ATMs abroad would, most likely, not have the 
facility to unlock his PIN. This contradicted the advice Mr M had been given in previous 
telephone discussions with Tesco. So, he complained.
After Tesco investigated Mr Ms concerns it upheld his complaint. It accepted it had given 
incorrect information to Mr M on a number of occasions. And it agreed that constituted poor 
service. To recognise its shortcomings it credited his account with £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr M experienced. And it paid £25 towards telephone expenses Mr M had 
incurred.
But Mr M wasnt happy with how Tesco had dealt with his complaint. And he didnt feel the 
compensation hed been paid adequately reflected the trouble and upset hed been caused. 
So, he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
They agreed Tesco had given incorrect information to Mr M while he was abroad. But they 
thought the compensation it had already paid adequately reflected the shortfalls in service that he had experienced. So, they didnt think it needed to do anymore here. Mr M disagreed 
with our investigators view and asked an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered 
everything Mr M and Tesco have told our service, and I can see Mr M has made a number of 
detailed submissions to our investigators views of his complaint, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr M experienced here. I recognise that he was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. And I can see how strongly he feels 
about his complaint. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen its clear that Mr Ms PIN was accidentally blocked by him. 
This isnt something for which I can fairly hold Tesco responsible. However, I can address 
whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably in the assistance and advice it gave him about 
unlocking his PIN.
Tesco doesnt dispute it provided incorrect information to Mr M about the unlocking process. 
it accepts this constituted poor service. And I agree. I say this because, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, its clear Mr M couldnt unlock his PIN while he was abroad. The only 
way this could be done was using a UK based ATM. 
Our service would expect Tesco to know how a PIN could be unlocked using an ATM and 
wed expect correct advice about this to have been communicated to Mr M during 
discussions in mid to late July 2019. 
To recognise what happened Tesco credited Mr Ms account with £75 compensation plus 
£25 in respect of call costs he incurred. Its clear Mr M isnt happy with that amount. He feels 
it doesnt fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience he experienced while on holiday. So 
Ive considered whether the remedy Tesco offered is fair and reasonable.
Having done so, Im afraid I have to tell Mr M that I agree with our investigators view. Im 
persuaded that £100 is a fair amount of compensation for Tesco to pay for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr M suffered. Indeed, theres not a great deal I can add to what our 
investigators already said about this complaint. I think they set out the position very clearly 
and thoroughly.
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Tesco to pay 
compensation for the trouble and upset Mr M was caused. The amount its already paid him 
is towards the lower end of the range for the category that this service would describe as 
moderate. I think thats a fair description of the difficulties Mr M had here. And Ill explain 
why I dont think they warrant a higher figure. 
As a result of what happened Mr M spent time, while on holiday, unnecessarily travelling to 
ATMs that were recommended by Tesco in order to try and unlock his PIN. Had Tesco given 
him correct information at the outset Im satisfied that would have been avoided. I can appreciate how frustrating and inconvenient this all must have been for Mr M. And I 
recognise that took time away from Mr Ms holiday.
But having thought carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr M, Im satisfied that the 
£75 trouble and upset award already paid by Tesco is a reasonable amount, which is in line 
with our approach in similar scenarios. I think it compensates Mr M for the disruption to his 
holiday that he faced due to Tescos incorrect advice. And its what I would have told Tesco 
to pay had no compensation been offered. 
Im also persuaded that the £25 payment Tesco made towards Mr Ms telephone expenses 
is a reasonable sum to recognise the cost of any phone calls he may have made in trying to 
discuss how Tesco could assist him in unlocking his PIN. I havent seen any evidence that 
shows Mr M incurred expenses over and above that amount. So, I cant fairly say a higher 
award is warranted here.
While Mr M may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation Tesco has already 
paid fairly recognises the impact its incorrect advice had in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint.
Ill turn now to the final part of Mr Ms complaint, which is about whether Tesco mis-sold the 
credit card to him. 
I understand Mr M applied for his credit card online. So, no advice on the suitability of this 
card was provided by Tesco. As such, Id expect Mr M to have read the terms and conditions 
of the account in order to determine the suitability of the credit card he was applying for.
Ive carefully considered the account terms and conditions. But, as our investigator 
explained, the limitations of ATMs abroad isnt something thats covered by the account 
terms as this isnt something over which Tesco has any control. And Ive already explained 
why it isnt Tescos fault the PIN became blocked.
Mr M said he wouldnt have taken out a credit card with Tesco if he thought it would be 
blocked while he was abroad. I appreciate he was reliant on his card. However, it was his 
responsibility to ensure his PIN was entered correctly. And I cant fairly criticise a business 
for locking a PIN in circumstances where its been entered incorrectly. I think thats a 
reasonable security measure for any business to take.
Overall, I think Tesco has dealt with this complaint fairly. Its done all it can to resolve this 
dispute. And, as Ive already outlined, Im satisfied that the compensation its already paid is 
fair to compensate Mr M for the trouble and upset he was caused here. So, Im not going to 
tell it to do any more. 
I realise Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve their dispute with Tesco informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help 
Mr M any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman