DRN-3896279
The complaint
Mr C has complained that since his account was transferred to ITI Capital Limited (ITI) in 
July 2020 he hadnt been able to arrange for ITI to transfer his account to a new broker or 
the equivalent in cash. He has been very worried that he hadnt been able to access his 
savings for over a year, contact was difficult and ITI wouldnt respond to his queries.
What happened
The administrator of the previous failed company Mr C had an account with wrote to Mr C on 
18 May 2020 with a statement of account and to confirm his account would soon be 
transferred to ITI. The account held seven shareholdings valued at just over £175,000, just 
under £500 cash plus accumulated dividends.
Mr C requested that his shareholdings be transferred in specie to his overseas broker, but 
this didnt happen.
Mr C complained to ITI on 30 August 2020. He said that his instruction to transfer £3,336 to 
his London bank was transferred twice on 7 and 27 August so he asked that no further cash 
transfers be made. He also asked that ITI respond to the messages that had been sent by 
his non-UK broker to transfer his stocks. He asked ITI to respond to his overseas broker 
immediately and transfer the stocks as requested by them.
On 23 October 2020 ITI responded to Mr Cs complaint. It said;
It accepted the client service offered to Mr C in connection with the concerns he had 
raised fell short of the standards it sought to deliver.
Technical difficulties had caused the missing or incomplete account balances. It was 
upholding this element of his complaint and said the issue had now been resolved.
His withdrawal request had been received on 1 October 2020 and he had confirmed 
the £193,209.85 had been credited to his account. Initially this was the incorrect 
amount and took longer than expected. This element of the complaint was also 
upheld and it apologised for the delays he had experienced.
It offered £200 for the distress and/or inconvenience caused.
In response Mr C said the in-specie transfer didnt happen despite his and his brokers 
attempts to do so, so he instructed that his shareholdings be sold and which he repurchased 
with his new broker. He wants to be reimbursed those dealing charges.
Mr C received £193,209.85 on 12 October 2020 which left £190 on account which he 
requested be sent to him on 14 October, but nothing happened. This balance later increased 
because of dividends added, but further to a cash withdrawal on 19 October of £764.12  a 
sum Mr C says didnt receive  the cash balance was showing as negative (£355 on 
dashboard and £18,440 on the cash statement). He wanted the matter sorted out.
In the meantime, ITI offered £350 for the delays in transferring Mr Cs holdings and lack of 
response to his requests for updates. But there was no explanation of the outstanding 
balance.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld. She said;
ITI should pay Mr C the £350 it had offered.
Confirm whether Mr C needed to pay the outstanding balance showing on his 
account of £355 and if so, how that negative balance had come about.
Refund the charges Mr C incurred in selling his shares with ITI and repurchasing the 
same shares with his new broker or provide evidence that the shares could have 
been transferred in specie.
Mr C responded. He said he would be prepared to accept the suggested settlement even 
though it didnt take account of the £190 that was left on his account before the deficit of 
£355 was arrived at. So, this reduced ITIs offer. And Mr C wanted to close the account 
which he was having difficulty with.
Our investigator sought clarity from ITI on the discrepancy of £190 and reiterated her opinion 
that ITI should pay Mr C the £350 it had offered, confirm whether Mr C needed to pay the 
outstanding balance of £355 and if so how that came about. It should refund the charges 
incurred in selling and repurchasing the share unless ITI could evidence that Mr C didnt 
need to sell the shares and they could have been transferred in specie. ITI should pay any 
money due to Mr C and arrange for his account to be closed.
ITI didnt reply. 
As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision explaining that I intended on upholding the complaint but with a change 
in how it should be put right. I invited the parties to provide me with anything further for my 
consideration prior to me issuing my final decision. Here is what I said;
Despite requests, there is very little information or evidence from ITI, so I issue my 
decision in the absence of that. When the evidence I have for a complaint is 
incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  which, in other words, means I base my decision on what I think is 
most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr Cs attempts to transfer his investments to his overseas broker
Mr C has given us a statement of his account that was sent to him on 18 May 2020 
by the administrator of the previous failed company. At that time seven investments 
were held valued at £175,316.08 plus cash of £488.30 and accumulated dividends of 
£2,177.59.
I understand from Mr C that he sold one of the holdings  Vodafone  while it was 
with the previous business, but the settlement couldnt be secured. However, this 
was later done by the administrator and proceeds were sent direct to Mr C in 
September 2020.
This left six securities that Mr C wanted transferred via CREST to his overseas 
broker. I have seen copies of Mr Cs overseas brokers request for shares transfer in forms dated 11 and 13 August 2020. And Ive also seen a copy of Mr Cs cash 
withdrawal and stock transfer request dated 15 September 2020.
ITI has given us call log data that shows Mr C called on 4 September 2020 about the 
transfer and was told that his overseas broker had just sent an email rather than a 
transfer form. He called ITI on 25 September and was Advised resetting account to 
closure details required and again on 9 October where its noted he chased for the 
withdrawal  I assume this refers to the withdrawal of the sale proceeds.
But I cant see from those logs that his efforts to transfer his investments was 
resolved. And I cant know for sure if one or all of the transfer requests/cash 
withdrawals were sent by Mr Cs overseas broker to ITI or if and when they were 
received by ITI. But the call log of 4 September 2020 Ive referred to above suggests 
that something had been received by ITI albeit it says the incorrect form for the 
transfer. If that had been the case, I would have expected ITI to have raised this with 
Mr Cs broker. And I cant know if it was either of the forms Ive seen dated              
11 and 13 August but I think its reasonable to assume that Mr Cs broker had made 
some sort of contact and a request to transfer the shareholdings.
What is known though is that sometime after that, Mr C sold his shareholdings rather 
than try and further resolve the transfer out issues with ITI and his overseas broker. 
Mr C told us he had been in contact with ITI many times, as had his new broker but 
without success so carried out the sales rather than wait for the share transfer.
Mr Cs decision to sell and repurchase his investments
The investigator asked ITI for evidence that Mr Cs shareholdings could have been 
transferred to his new broker in specie rather than him having to sell and repurchase 
them. We didnt receive anything back for ITI, so I asked Mr C why he felt he had to 
go ahead with trades rather than wait for ITI to respond.
Mr C said he had been very worried. His original broker had collapsed, and it had 
taken a year for the administrator and trustee to come up with a solution in ITI, but 
this only caused him more problems and uncertainty. ITI failed to get its systems in 
order. He was concerned about the financial viability and stability of ITI.
Mr C says he hadnt been able to close his account immediately because of the 
unsettled Vodafone trade I have referred to above  he told us he received the 
proceeds for that sale on 20 September. Once that had completed, he told us his 
overseas broker attempted to complete the transfer of the holdings three times (I can 
only assume further to the attempts referred to above) but after its phone calls and 
emails to ITI went unanswered his broker couldnt do anything more. After further 
attempts by Mr C contacting ITI no resolution was looking likely, so Mr C sold all of 
his holdings.
Mr C told us that his selling costs for the six shares was £45 but that he wasnt in a 
position to repurchase them immediately because it proved extremely difficult for the 
proceeds to be transferred from ITI. If he had immediately repurchased the shares 
using his overseas broker, he would have had to have paid a total of over £1,000. He 
wants the costs of the sales and repurchases repaid to him.
Ive thought very carefully about this point. Mr C wasnt told by ITI that it couldnt 
transfer the shareholdings in specie. It was Mr Cs own decision to sell the shares. 
From the very limited information I have from ITI theres nothing to show that any 
information or advice given by ITI to Mr C caused him to sell the shares.But in the very particular circumstances of this complaint, I do have sympathy for the 
position Mr C found himself in. And ITI hasnt given me any information or reason to 
make me conclude otherwise. Mr C had already seen one financial business he 
relied upon collapse. So, even though ITI was only responsible for his account from 
July 2020, once Mr C couldnt administer his account as he would have liked and 
found that ITIs records were incorrect, I dont think his concerns about ITI were 
unreasonable.
Mr C held assets worth nearly £200,000 and I can understand his worry and anxiety 
about not being able to access those assets once they were transferred to the new 
business. His own and his brokers attempts to arrange for the transfer of his 
holdings failed so I think once that was thwarted Mr C felt that he didnt have any 
other option than take the action he did.
Overall, I dont find Mr Cs reasoning for selling his shares unreasonable. I think he 
has been clear in the amount of worry he was caused, first by the failure of his 
original broker  which I fully accept wasnt ITIs responsibility  and then the 
problems he and his overseas broker had with ITI in arranging the transfer in 
August/September, after which he lost confidence. So, I dont think its unreasonable 
that Mr C should be reimbursed the sale costs.
With regards to the repurchase of the shares sold when Mr Cs cash was transferred 
to his new broker, we asked Mr C for evidence of this. Mr C couldnt provide this. He 
said he didnt keep detailed (historical) records and didnt have any account 
statements or contract notes showing the repurchases. He said he did buy some of 
the same shares eventually but had since sold all but one of them.
I accept that Mr C did experience some delays in receiving the bulk of the sale 
proceeds on 12 October. But I havent seen anything to show that Mr Cs only 
intention was to reinvest the sale proceeds into those same shareholdings. He hasnt 
given me anything to suggest that the reinvestment into the same shares and prior to 
that date was compelling. And while he may have repurchased some of them 
eventually, I dont find his intention to make those reinvestments was time sensitive 
to the extent that he should be reimbursed any costs incurred in buying shares when 
he moved to his new broker.
So, in the particular circumstances of Mr Cs complaint I am of the opinion he should 
be reimbursed the cost of the sales but for the reasons given, I dont think he should 
be awarded the reinvestment costs.
Cash transfers and cash balance on account
Mr C did experience worry and frustration because of the cash transfers being made 
incorrectly and also a debit showing on his account, the resulting credit for which 
wasnt received by him. I dont know the date the cash transfer request(s) were 
received by ITI but as far as I am able to understand, £3,336 was transferred in 
August, £11,962.06 in September and £193,209.85 was received on 12 October  a 
total of six weeks, and during which time the sales took place.
While this may have taken longer than Mr C would have liked I cant see that he had 
any definite intentions or plans for that money. Mr C has said he wanted to reinvest 
the funds but as Ive said above, he hasnt given me any reason to think he did so 
immediately or that he financially suffered as a result of those delays.I do accept its clear Mr C had significant problems in establishing the correct account 
balance for his cash. Ive outlined above what occurred  the missing £764.12 and 
debits showing on account as examples  and that Mr C didnt know what the correct 
position was or how the debit positions had arisen.
To try to resolve this, I asked ITI for a full statement of account, but nothing has been 
received. And the only audit information Ive seen is a statement of Mr Cs account as 
at 21 July 2022. It shows a debit of £355 under the heading of Amount owed to the 
broker but theres no other description or record of how that debit arrived at. And I 
dont have any other statements in order to reconcile what happened to Mr Cs cash.
If there is any cash left on Mr Cs account this should be paid to his new broker and 
Mr C should be provided with a full statement of his account from the time it was 
transferred to ITI from the administrator of the previous failed business to the time the 
transfer out is/was completed. This should give Mr C a full audit trail for his account 
and Mr C can check whether anything is actually owed by or to ITI.
Overall, I provisionally uphold Mr Cs complaint about the poor service he has 
received  the delays and lack of responses to his requests. I also provisionally 
agree that he should be repaid the costs incurred in selling his shareholdings but for 
the reasons given above, not the reinvestment costs. ITI needs to put the matter 
right.
To put the matter right I said ITI should pay Mr C £350 it had already offered, refund the 
selling costs and provide Mr C with a full statement of his account so that he could 
understand how any debits on his account had arisen. 
In his response Mr C said that as ITI was closing its UK retail business his account will have 
already been closed. If any money was owed to him then he would like it paid to him direct 
rather to his broker and he could supply the banking details. He also wanted to know how 
the final decision could be enforced. The investigator responded to Mr Cs queries.
ITI didnt reply to the provisional decision but in the meantime did provide a statement of    
Mr Cs account which will be forwarded onto Mr C with my decision. That statement includes 
details of all cash transfers for Mr C to reconcile what happened on his account. I appreciate 
that now the statement has been received Mr C might have further concerns if there is 
anything he doesnt understand or agree with. Ive commented on this  and any further 
action ITI may have to take  below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party to the complaint has given me anything further to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision. So, I confirm those findings and I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint and ITI needs to put the matter right. 
Putting things right
ITI should pay Mr C the £350 it has offered for the delays in transferring his holdings 
and the lack of response to his requests for updates.
Refund the charges Mr C incurred in selling his shares with ITI.
ITI has provided a statement of Mr Cs account but if Mr C has any remaining concerns about that, or that the statement raises any further concerns or similar, ITI 
should respond to any reasonable requests Mr C makes. If there is any remaining 
cash this should be paid to Mr C direct rather than to his broker. 
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay Mr C the sums above within one month of receiving from us 
notification of Mr Cs acceptance of my decision, ITI Capital Limited should also pay Mr C 
simple interest on the sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision until the 
date ITI Capital Limited pays my award.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and ITI Capital Limited should put 
the matter right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman