DRN-4179091
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about Santander UK Plc.
They say that Santander didnt do enough to protect Mr M from becoming a victim of a scam
and would like Santander to pay back the money that has been lost.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr M fell victim to a scam involving cryptocurrency. He was persuaded
to part with £23,250.
Mr M reported the loss of funds to Santander as a disputed transaction. However, he quickly
withdrew the claim as the scammer persuaded him that he would be receiving a refund.
Later, in February 2021, the scammer persuaded him to part with more money in order to
access his supposed profits. These payments were stopped by Santander.
Mr M then reported the scam again and made a complaint. Santander didnt uphold his
complaint.
Mr and Mrs M then brought their complaint to this Service  but our Investigator didnt think
that it should be upheld. Ive previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint where 
I explained that I thought this complaint should be upheld in part.
Mr and Mrs M accepted this, but Santander did not.
As the complaint was not settled, I will now issue my final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I should say before I do, that I consider Mr M to be a vulnerable individual  Santander is 
aware of this but says that it did not know until after the scam had already occurred, in 
March 2021. 
However, I do know that it spoke with Mr M in November 2020. And having listened to 
several calls it had with Mr M, I think that any telephone conversation with him wouldve 
highlighted to Santander that Mr M had a disability and was likely vulnerable. So, I think it 
should have known this from an earlier date than it says it became aware. 
Was Mr M the victim of a scam?
It isnt in doubt here that Mr M fell victim to a scam. He was persuaded to part with money 
and was unable to withdraw his supposed profits. He was also persuaded to part with more 
money (although this wasnt processed) in order to access the supposed profits. I know that 
Mr M told Santander that he had made money on the investment  but I think he means the 
money the investment apparently made  as I havent seen any evidence of any payments 
being made back to him.
Mr M made the following payments as part of the scam.
Date Payee Payment type Amount
29 September 2020 Y Debit card £250
5 October 2020 Y Debit card £3,000
10 November 2020 Y Debit card £10,000
10 November 2020 Y Debit card £10,000
Did Mr M authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr M isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
I dont think its in dispute that Mr M authorised the payments in question here - he provided 
the one-time passcode to authorise them and they were made using his own debit card. He 
also spoke with Santander about the payments.
I understand Mr M had been tricked into instructing Santander to make the payments  but 
while Mr M never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact 
he authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of Mr Ms payments
After Mr M made the payments, I wouldnt expect Santander to do anything further until it 
was notified of the scam.
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Santander) and the merchant (here, Y).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would unlikely have been successful. This is 
because Y is a legitimate crypto exchange and provided the services that Mr M had 
requested of it  the purchase of crypto and subsequently moving that crypto onto a wallet of 
Mr Ms choosing. What happened after that crypto was successfully moved is therefore a 
separate matter  and so a successful chargeback would likely never have been possible  
and so I dont think that these payments were recoverable once they had been made.
Should Santander have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Santander reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Mr M made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.Mr M authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Santander should have taken proactive 
steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider Santander should 
fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This leads me to consider the payments that Mr M made  and if Santander should have 
intervened.
The first two payments
Having considered the first two payments Mr M made, Im not persuaded that Santander 
should have become involved at this point. I say this because as Ive explained above, there 
is a balance to be struck. Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms account transactions and activity and 
I dont think that they are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to have triggered Santander 
into taking extra steps before processing Mr Ms payment instructions.
Payment three
Payment three was for £10,000  a large amount of money. While Mr and Mrs M had made 
another transaction in October 2020 for a similar amount, this payment was now going to a 
seller of crypto  and was still unusual for the account.
This payment shouldve stuck out to Santander being uncommon considering the way in 
which Mr and Mrs M generally used their account, especially given that by January 2019, 
Santander should already have had a good understanding about how scams like the one 
Mr M fell victim to work.
With this in mind, Santander should reasonably have contacted Mr M to establish whether 
the transaction posed any possibility of placing him in financial harm before processing it. I 
wouldve expected it to have questioned Mr M about the payment  including what he was 
making the payment for and surrounding context and to proceed accordingly. The intention 
being to disrupt or uncover a potential fraud or scam. I also think that it should have taken extra care with Mr M, given his vulnerability.
Santander has pointed out in its response to my provisional decision that it did speak with 
Mr M on the 2 and 4 November, but the amounts did not debit the account for a few days, as 
I had commented that it was not clear what the calls were in relation to. However, even if 
these calls were in relation to the payments that eventually left the account on the 10 
November, there are no copies of the calls to see what was said, and there are no notes 
about what was said either. So, Im not able to say that Santander did give a meaningful 
warning to Mr M at this time and must conclude it missed an opportunity to prevent the loss 
from this point. I know that Santander says that as it did give Mr M a meaningful warning 
when he tried to make further payments that it would also have done this on 2 and 4 
November. But theres no evidence to show that it did. 
I should also point out that later when Santander spoke with Mr M about the scam, it said he 
told it that it was Mrs M who made the payments. It says that if it was Mrs M who made the 
payments why it should Mr Ms disability and vulnerability apply. But it also says that it spoke 
with Mr M about the payments at the time (although as Ive said above, so call recording is 
available)  and Ive listened to a security call back it had with him about the payments 
(when no scam warning was given). The payments were made with Mr Ms debit card, and 
he provided a one-time password to approve the payments. So, I dont think that it actually 
was Mrs M who made the payments. 
Mr Ms later actions
Mr M reported that he had been scammed to Santander  but quickly withdrew his 
complaint. This is because he was persuaded by the scammer that he would be getting a 
refund of the money he had already paid.
This should have been a further red flag to Santander  it should have asked him more 
about this at the time, and potentially asked Mr M to visit a branch in light of his vulnerability. 
It is a common tactic of scammers to make this kind of promise in order to attempt to get 
further funds from an individual who has already been shown to be susceptible to this kind of 
scam.
Santander also says that as Mr M went on to try and make transactions in February 2021, 
after he was given a later scam warning by Santander, that this shows he would have 
continued to try and make payments no matter what it told him  so it doesnt think that it 
could have prevented the two payments of £10,000.
While I would sometimes agree with this logic, I do think that in Mr Ms case, there is reason 
to doubt this. As Ive said above, Mr M had a disability, and I consider that he was a 
vulnerable person. Having listened to the calls Mr M had with Santander, I think it is clear 
that Mr M may have had some difficulties in understanding what was being said to him, and 
some of the answers he gave didnt stack up.
I do recognise that Santander didnt process the later payments, but had it taken into 
account Mr Ms individual circumstances, and asked him to visit the branch for a face to face 
meeting when he cancelled his earlier complaint, it could have broken the spell that Mr M 
had been put under by the scammers. And he may have realised earlier that the promise of 
getting his money back was untrue and so wouldnt have attempted to make further 
payments.
Should Mr M bear some responsibility for the loss?
While I do consider that Santander should have prevented the payments from payment three, I do need to consider if Mr M should bear some responsibility for what happened here 
by way of contributory negligence.
Mr M is already bearing some responsibility here, as I will not be asking Santander to refund 
the first two payments that Mr M made. But I dont think that Mr M should bear responsibility 
for the loss of the last two payments. Mr M was not a sophisticated investor  and he didnt 
have knowledge of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) prior to making his complaint  so 
I dont think he would have checked the FCA website to see a warning that was placed on 
the scammer in August 2020. 
I understand that Mr M told Santander that he had good insight in crypto. But I have reason 
to doubt that he did  and I think that Santander should also have done the same. As Ive 
explained above, some of the answers Mr M gave Santander when it spoke with him didnt 
stack up. Again, I will highlight that Mr M was vulnerable  and Santander were the experts 
here with more knowledge on the intricacies of these types of scams.
It follows that I am satisfied no deduction for contributory negligence should be made in 
respect of the last two payments.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr and Mrs M the total of the last two payments made.
I calculate this to be £20,000.
On top of this Santander should also pay Mr and Mrs M 8% simple interest on this amount, 
from the date of the payments to the date payment it made to Mr and Mrs M (less any 
lawfully deductible tax).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part.  Santander UK Plc should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman