DRN-3316214
The complaint
Mr M is a sole trader. He complains that the hire agreement he entered into with 
Grenke Leasing Limited was mis-sold and is unenforceable.
Mr M is represented in bringing the complaint by a third party, Mr W.
What happened
Mr M entered into a hire agreement with Grenke in September 2018. He hired a commercial 
LED display and some related technological equipment and services (which Ill refer to 
hereafter as the Goods). The agreement was to run for a term of 36 months, with payments 
of £299 due each month.
The hire agreement was sold to Mr M by a third party, who Ill refer to as V. Mr M says that 
the hire agreement was packaged as part of a cost neutral advertising arrangement that he 
entered into with V. Under this arrangement, Mr M was to use the Goods to run 
advertisements for local businesses, for which he would receive an income from V. That 
income would cover the cost of the payments that Mr M would have to pay to Grenke under 
the hire agreement. Mr M would also benefit from advertisements for his business being 
displayed by other vendors in the area, on the basis that other local businesses had entered 
into similar arrangements.
Within a matter of weeks, Mr M stopped receiving the anticipated income from V. Shortly 
thereafter, V entered liquidation. 
Believing hed been the victim of either a scam or  at the very least  mis-selling, Mr M 
complained to Grenke saying that:
The arrangement was a scam for which both V and Grenke were responsible. He 
had been misled into entering the agreement on the basis of the advertising income, 
and didnt think it was fair for Grenke to continue collecting payments now that had 
ceased.
The cost of the Goods had been inflated far beyond their true value and the cost of 
hiring them was, therefore, unfair.
Grenke hadnt taken appropriate steps to ensure hed understood what he was 
signing up to and hadnt made important information about the hire agreement clear.
Grenke didnt agree that it had done anything wrong, and said in response that:
Grenke was not connected in any way to V, which had supplied the Goods and had 
sole responsibility for the separate advertising arrangement. It was aware of the 
advertising aspect but had no knowledge of the arrangement between V and Mr M  
it said it wouldnt have proceeded with the transaction if it had been.
It had made clear from the outset that the hire agreement had no connection to the 
advertising arrangement. This was set out with an acceptance certificate signed by 
Mr M when entering into the agreement. The hire agreement referred only to the hire 
of the equipment. The distinction was also confirmed to Mr M in a pre-contractual 
discussion.
Under a hire agreement, the customer was responsible for the selection of the 
supplier and the equipment. The cost of the Goods was set by the supplier  in this 
case, V  and Grenke then set the monthly payments at the level required to repay 
this amount.
Mr M subsequently referred the matter to us. 
Following discussions with our Service, and while maintaining its position that the complaint 
was unfounded, Grenke offered to discount the outstanding balance under Mr Ms hire 
agreement by 50% (a reduction of just over £3,000) and forego its interest in the Goods. As 
Mr M didnt wish to accept the offer, one of our investigators reviewed the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. In summary, this was 
because:
Grenke couldnt be held responsible for the way in which V had sold or presented the 
hire agreement to Mr M. The terms and conditions of the agreement said there was 
no agency relationship between Grenke and V, and there was no other evidence to 
indicate that V had acted as Grenkes agent in the transaction. The relevant 
provisions of the Consumer Credit Act on this matter only applied to credit 
agreements, not hire agreements.
Grenke had provided Mr M with clear information about how the hire agreement 
would work, setting out key details including the monthly payment amount and the 
length of the term. Mr M had signed to confirm his acceptance of the terms. It was 
also clear that the hire agreement was independent of the advertising arrangement. 
There was no mention of the arrangement within the hire agreement and Mr M had 
signed an acceptance certificate that confirmed the arrangement had no bearing on 
his commitments under the hire agreement.
Grenke had provided evidence to show that the cost of the Goods was as quoted by 
V and was comparable to the cost of similar commercial display offerings. The cost 
wasnt so unreasonable that it should have caused Grenke any concern in deciding 
whether to agree to finance the contract.
Grenke hadnt offered Mr M a cooling-off period but it hadnt been obliged to offer 
one. Again, this was because the relevant provisions within the Consumer Credit Act 
didnt apply to hire agreements. This was also true of other provisions that Mr M had 
cited, including those relating to unfair relationships.
So, while sympathising with the position Mr M found himself in, our investigator didnt 
recommend that Grenke take any further action in response to the complaint. Grenkes offer 
to settle the matter remained open, but Mr M declined this. On his behalf, Mr W asked that 
an ombudsman review the complaint. In response to our investigators assessment, he said:
The findings as to the application of the Consumer Credit Act provisions were 
incorrect, as consumer hire agreements  as Mr Ms was  were regulated agreements. This was supported by the fact that the agreement specified that it was 
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act. If it wasnt, this statement was misleading.
Grenke did no due diligence on the Goods, the cost of which was substantially above 
the market price. The values ascribed to the Goods werent disclosed by V, so Mr M 
couldnt have checked this for himself  and wasnt inclined to, given the absence of 
any upfront costs to pay.
Our investigation had been unreasonably constrained to a review of the transaction 
between Grenke and Mr M alone, when other financial businesses had been involved 
and a number of other customers had been affected by the same alleged scam. It 
was also relevant to look at how changes had been made to the way the agreements 
had been arranged. In particular, the acceptance certificate  on which much weight 
had been placed  hadnt been used in agreements entered into before May 2018.
Questions should be asked of Grenke as to its positive financial performance during 
the period in which agreements such as Mr Ms were provided. There were financial 
incentives for the sale of these agreements, which were pursued to the detriment of 
customers.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ms complaint last month, explaining why I didnt think 
Grenke needed to do anything more than it had already offered. I said:
The advertising arrangement and Grenkes due diligence
Mr W says that Grenke knew that the hire agreements it was providing to customers 
like Mr M were being sold as part of a cost-neutral advertising arrangement. He says 
that the arrangement was a scam and that although Grenke was also a victim, it 
ought to have realised what was happening and declined to proceed with the 
transactions.
Ive thought about all the points that Mr W and Mr M have made in this respect, but I 
dont think it was inappropriate or unreasonable for Grenke to proceed with the 
agreement. 
Grenke acknowledges that it knew of the separate advertising arrangement, but 
didnt know of the cost-neutral basis that V allegedly presented. However, even if it 
had known this, I dont think it would reasonably have led Grenke to decline Mr Ms 
application. And I dont think it was obliged to conduct the level of investigation that 
would have been needed to determine that the arrangement was either part of a 
scam or such an inherently-flawed business proposition that it should not proceed. 
It has also been suggested that the cost of the Goods ought to have given Grenke 
cause for concern. But while accepting that the price Mr M paid may well have been 
higher than the Goods typical market price, I dont think the price was at such a level 
as to have reasonably led Grenke to intervene. Ultimately, it was a matter for Mr M to 
decide whether he was happy to pay the cost he was quoted for the Goods. 
Grenke also took steps to underline the distinction between the advertising 
arrangement and the hire agreement. Mr M signed an acceptance certificate that 
confirmed, amongst other things, that he understood that the advertising arrangement had no bearing on his commitments under the hire agreement. He 
also confirmed his understanding of this on a telephone call with Grenke in which it 
outlined some key information about the hire agreement. 
Ive noted Mr Ws comments to the effect that Grenkes approach to this aspect of the 
transaction changed over time and that it hadnt required customers to complete an 
acceptance certificate prior to May 2018. But in deciding Mr Ms complaint, I am only 
assessing how it treated him. He entered into his agreement in September 2018  
and, when doing so, completed an acceptance certificate that highlighted the 
separation between the hire agreement and advertising arrangement. Observations 
about Grenkes prior practices dont lead me to view how it dealt with Mr M any 
differently. 
How the hire agreement was sold
Given the concerns as to how Mr M was sold the hire agreement  and, in particular, 
how it was presented as part of a broader cost-neutral advertising arrangement  Ive 
considered whether Grenke holds any responsibility for this. Mr M says that the 
arrangement was a scam and it was only on the basis of Vs fraudulent 
misrepresentations that he entered into the hire agreement with Grenke. 
The hire agreement was sold to Mr M by V. V was independent of Grenke; a 
separate authorised and regulated firm in its own right. To hold Grenke responsible 
for Vs actions, Id need to find that V acted as Grenkes agent in the transaction. But 
I dont think it did. The terms of the hire agreement explicitly stated that the supplier 
of the Goods (V) was not an agent of Grenke and wasnt authorised to make binding 
representations on its behalf. And Ive not seen anything that leads me to think 
otherwise.
Mr W has a made a number of points on this aspect of the complaint, setting out how 
Grenke conducted other transactions of a similar nature and how it changed its 
approach to such transactions over time. Ive considered all of these, but none lead 
me to a different conclusion. While I appreciate all hes said on the broader context, 
for the reasons Ive explained I dont think V was acting as Grenkes agent when 
dealing with Mr M.
Ive also thought about whether Grenke could be held responsible for Vs actions 
under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, given the points that Mr W has 
raised in this respect. But the relevant provisions only apply to debtor-creditor-
supplier agreements, whereas the agreement at issue here was a hire agreement. 
So I dont think Grenke can be held responsible for the way in which V sold or 
presented the hire agreement to Mr M. 
The information provided to Mr M about the hire agreement
I think Grenke provided Mr M with sufficiently clear information about the agreement 
such that he ought reasonably to have understood the commitment he was entering 
into  and been able to make an informed decision as to whether to proceed. In 
addition to what Ive said above as to the clear distinction between the hire 
agreement and the advertising arrangement, the hire agreement documentation itself 
set out key details of the agreement in a standardised format that complies with the 
requirements of the Consumer Credit Act. This clearly explained that:The agreement was between Mr M and Grenke for the hire of the Goods (with 
no mention of the advertising arrangement);
The Goods that were being hired;
Mr M was required to pay 36 monthly payments of £299; and
The agreement was not cancellable.
This information was all presented on one page, which Mr M signed to confirm his 
acceptance. 
Ive noted the points Mr M and Mr W have raised about the failure to make certain 
prescribed pre-contract information disclosures, which they believe would render the 
contract unenforceable without a court order. Only a court could decide on the 
enforceability of the agreement. However, my role is to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the specific circumstances of the complaint, and I dont think it would 
be fair to say that the agreement should be unwound or otherwise amended on this 
basis. I say this because I dont think the pre-contract information would have led Mr 
M to act any differently  he went on to receive (and accept) the hire agreement 
itself, which contained all the details that would have been set out in the pre-contract 
information. 
Mr M also said that he did not receive a detailed breakdown of the cost of the Goods. 
But this isnt something that Grenke was required to provide. I think its reasonable to 
expect either that Mr M would have obtained this from V, or that he could have raised 
enquiries with V if he had any concerns as to the cost or value ascribed to any or all 
of the goods or services that he was being provided with.
Other provisions and protections offered by the Consumer Credit Act
A number of Mr M and Mr Ws arguments are based on provisions within the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. But, like our investigator, Ive not found that the relevant 
provisions apply to hire agreements and therefore arent relevant to Mr Ms 
agreement with Grenke. In addition to those dealt with above, looking at the other 
points of significance:
It is argued that under Section 67, the hire agreement was a cancellable 
agreement. For this to apply there must have been antecedent 
negotiations, as defined under Section 56. As there were no negotiations 
between Grenke and Mr M, I dont think this provision applies. Grenke was 
not, therefore, required to provide Mr M with a cooling-off period before the 
agreement came into effect.
It is highlighted that under Section 140, a court may  amongst other 
remedies  set aside an agreement if it determines that the relationship 
between a creditor and debtor is unfair to the debtor. But these provisions 
only apply to credit agreements and not hire agreements.
Under Section 75, a creditor can be held jointly and severally liable with a 
supplier for a debtors claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract. But 
these provisions only apply to debtor-creditor-supplier agreements, which Mr 
Ms agreement is not.
Mr W has questioned why Mr Ms hire agreement was specified as being regulated 
by the Consumer Credit Act 1974, given our findings that many of its provisions 
dont apply. But Mr Ms hire agreement is regulated by the Act. Its just that  as specified by that Act  not all of its provisions apply to each type of regulated 
agreement covered by its scope (with differences, for example, between credit, hire 
and debtor-creditor-supplier agreements). It is, for example, a requirement of the Act 
that regulated hire agreements prominently display certain wording to confirm their 
regulation, which Grenkes agreement with Mr M did. So I dont think Grenke did 
anything wrong in how it presented the agreement to Mr M.
Ive also considered what Mr W has said about the financial incentive to Grenke in 
providing these arrangements and the positive impact this had on its performance. 
Mr W hasnt set out in any level of detail how any incentivisation or reward that 
Grenke may have offered or generated might directly have impacted Mr M adversely 
or unfairly. Im sure Grenke would have entered into the agreement with a view to 
making a profit. However, for the reasons Ive explained above, Ive not seen that it 
did so by treating Mr M unfairly. 
Summary
I sympathise with the position in which Mr M finds himself and the impact that this 
matter has had on him and his business  particularly as recourse against V was 
made impossible following its liquidation. But, for the reasons set out above, there is 
no basis on which I could reasonably require Grenke to unwind the agreement or to 
write off the outstanding balance as Mr M has requested.
Grenke has reinstated its offer (to discount the outstanding balance under Mr Ms 
hire agreement by 50% and forego its interest in the Goods). So the offer set out in 
Grenkes letter of 4 December 2020 remains open to Mr M should he wish to accept 
it. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or information they wanted me to 
take into account before making a final decision. 
Grenke confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr W responded and said that I had erred in 
concentrating solely on Grenkes involvement. He made a number of points regarding the 
involvement of other companies, saying in summary that:
It was a UK franchise of Grenke (that Ill refer to as G) that had entered into the 
agreements at issue and I hadnt referred to that company at all. This was a mistake 
as it was the financial incentive for G, rather than Grenke, that was the source of the 
problems. The complaint had only been raised against Grenke because it was from 
that entity that the threat of legal action came (for breach of the agreement if 
payments werent made).
Hed analysed the impact of this line of business (i.e. the agreements with V) on Gs 
financial performance and, while accepting it didnt prove any wrongdoing, the 
revenue it was generating was a substantial incentive against doing things in the right 
way.
It was unfair to expect Mr M to have conducted the sort of investigation and analysis 
required to establish and evidence how the financial incentivisation behind these 
agreements had affected him, as Id suggested. Rather it was reasonable to expect 
that the Financial Ombudsman Service would examine this in the requisite detail, 
including looking into the various entities involved in the broader agreements 
involving V, in light of the concerns referred to us. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that set out in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why Mr Ws further points havent led me to a different view.
Firstly, I should set out why my findings focus on Grenke Leasing Limited. As Mr W 
acknowledges, that is the financial business against which the complaint was made. But 
more broadly, Mr Ms agreement  the subject of his complaint  is with Grenke Leasing 
Limited. So under our rules, that is the financial business about which he is eligible to refer a 
complaint to us. And in considering that complaint, I have no jurisdiction to make findings 
about anything G, a separate legal entity, did (or didnt do) or direct it to do anything  even if 
I found its actions had unfairly impacted Mr M.
I cant see that Mr M would have the requisite relationship with G such that we would be able 
to investigate a complaint from him about it. But that is based on only very limited 
information and Mr M is, of course, free to pursue a separate complaint about G if he wishes.
In raising concerns with the actions of G and other parties, I understand from Mr W has said 
that he expects us to have conducted a level of investigation that is beyond the remit of our 
service. Ive noted that Mr W refers to us, on occasion, as the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and the regulator  which we are not. Our role is to resolve individual disputes 
between financial businesses and their customers, and we are independent of the FCA 
(which is the industry regulator). Mr W has raised a number of points that relate to matters 
broader than how Grenke treated Mr M, which would be more suitably referred to the FCA 
than us.
My role is to decide whether Grenke did anything wrong or unfair in how it treated Mr M 
when entering into the agreement. And Im satisfied that I have sufficient information and 
evidence in order to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion on that. I can, of course, 
consider how any wider business practices may have played a part in how Grenke treated 
Mr M. But, while Ive taken into account everything Mr W has said and provided to us in this 
respect, I still dont think they did. Mr W acknowledges that it wasnt any financial incentive 
for Grenke that he believes led to an adverse impact on Mr M. And given that Ive found 
Grenke didnt treat Mr M unfairly, I dont think any incentivisation for any third parties would 
lead me to a different conclusion on that. 
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Mr W as I understand their strength of feeling over 
this issue, I still dont think there is any basis on which I could fairly require Grenke to do 
anything more than it has already offered.
My final decision
Grenke Leasing Limited has made an offer to settle Mr Ms complaint and for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman