DRN-2565798
The complaint
Miss H complains that the vehicle she acquired on finance supplied by BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to end the agreement and 
reject the vehicle.
What happened
Miss H is represented by Mr W but for ease of reading Ill mostly refer to her.
Miss H tells us that she acquired the new vehicle in June 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as 
J. She complains of persistent problems with the braking system since supply and says 
that repairs havent resolved the issues.
BMW issued a final response letter in May 2019. In that it said that the vehicle had been 
inspected after repairs were done in October 2018. But that no other faults had been found. 
But it said that due to the time taken to investigate the concerns and the period when Miss H 
had been without the vehicle it would refund 50% of repair costs (£595) and suppress two 
monthly payments.
Two of our investigators have issued views. The first recommended that the complaint 
should be upheld. But following further information being supplied, our second investigator 
issued a view which didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the vehicle had been repaired 
in October 2018. And he was unaware of any further faults after BMWs offer of May 2019 
had been accepted. He referred to an independent report from October 2020 carried out by 
a business Ill call A. He explained that A had concluded that the issues it found at that time 
would not have been present at the point of supply. And were due to in service wear and 
tear.
Miss H didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Hs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMW supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
Miss H has complained about persistent faults with the braking system. Shes highlighted 
various issues. She doesnt agree with many of the conclusions reached by an independent 
inspection carried out by A.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. 
Our second investigators view included a timeline which sets out the details of job cards and 
reports relating to various repairs and inspections to which the vehicle has been subject. 
Im aware that its not been possible to obtain all the job cards and that Miss H feels her case 
has been adversely affected by this. But as an informal service theres only so much we can 
do. And our investigator has sought and obtained as much information as he was able. 
Courts may have powers to order disclosure of documents with penalties attached for non-
compliance. This service does not have such coercive powers. As it happens and for 
reasons Ill explain, its improbable that any missing job cards would materially affect my 
decision.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ill first refer to the repairs carried out in October 2018. These arose after impact damage 
occurred in September 2018, which Miss H attributed to an issue with the braking system. 
Im unable to say on the information available if any fault with the vehicle was responsible for 
the incident.
A business Ill call NSM completed repairs in October 2018 to the nearside track rod/tie, 
nearside lower arm and four-wheel alignment. The cost of these repairs was £1,190. BMW 
later refunded 50% of that cost and arranged for two monthly payments to be suppressed.
Also in October 2018, the car was seen by a business Ill call CC. The reported concern 
was that the brakes were spongy. The job card shows that in this repair practically the entire 
brake system was replaced. This repair seemingly conforms with the requirements of the 
CRA which allows the dealer / supplier to have a chance to repair the vehicle if the short 
time right to reject (which usually relates to issues arising within 30 days of supply) hasnt 
been exercised. The mileage recorded at this time was 5,316 miles.
 
In January 2019, job cards show that the wheel bearing and disc pads were
replaced.
In April 2019, the battery was changed and brakes were bled and brake fluid replaced.
In June 2019 the car went back to CC and the disc pads were again replaced. Disc pads are 
considered a serviceable item and linked to the driving style, rather than demonstrating an 
inherent fault with the car. The vehicle is reported to have undergone a service in January 2020 with no other reference 
to brakes.
On 29 October 2020, an independent inspection by A took place. At the point of inspection, 
the car had completed 25,627 miles which demonstrates a reasonable mileage in the 28 
months since the vehicle was supplied.
The opinion of the inspector concluded:
that the vehicle is suffering from distorted / warped front brake discs which is causing the 
vehicle to vibrate and is unsafe to drive on any road conditions and concluded that the car 
was unsafe to be used on the road.
The report has offered possible reasons for this:
 The face of the disc may have some rust or dirt on it;
 thin spot or wear depression on the rotor due to the wear;
 debris trapped in the disc to hub contact can cause the misalignment;
 overheating.
The conclusion of the report stated:
We would conclude that the vehicle has suffered from in use wear and deterioration to the 
front brake discs causing them to warp deeming the vehicle to be unsafe for road use.
This would not have been present at the point of purchase after 25,000 miles of use.
The vehicle also received a rear axle service on 26 November 2020. The odometer reading 
recorded a mileage of 26,114 miles. This shows it had been driven just under 500 miles 
since As report. 
In summary, Miss Hs vehicle has been involved in impact damage not long after supply.  
The vehicles braking system was largely replaced on warranty and through CRA rights in 
October 2018. BMW made a gesture of goodwill in May 2019, in relation to the accident 
damage repairs. And this also referred to the time the repairs took to complete.
Since then works have been undertaken on the braking system including on discs and pads 
which are serviceable items. The vehicle has now covered in excess of 26,000 miles. 
The report by A in October 2020 concluded that the faults it identified with the vehicle 
werent present at the point of supply. But were the result of normal in-service wear and tear. 
It provided possible explanations which broadly speaking suggest the vehicle may have 
picked up some dirt/ grit and this has affected the discs and braking system.
I empathise with Miss Hs view, expressed in the most recent comment and information that 
she sent, that the amount of work the car has required is too much considering the year and 
specification of the vehicle. Her point is understandable, but I cant simply ignore an expert 
opinion which says this is due to extraneous wear and tear issues. 
And outside that opinion, the undisputed fact is that the vehicle has covered over 26,000 
miles since supply. Whilst I understand that loss of confidence in a vehicle is a personal feeling, its highly unlikely that this level of mileage could have been achieved with brakes 
that had been defective since supply. Or if the major repairs of October 2018 had failed.
In the absence of plausible information to show that the conclusions drawn by A are 
incorrect it would not be fair and reasonable to hold BMW liable for repairs or to require it to 
accept rejection of the vehicle. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman