DRN-2066127
The complaint
Mr P complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) closed his savings account without 
giving him any explanation or information. He also complains that YBS didnt send the 
closing balance to his wifes account but instead issued him with a cheque.   
What happened
Mr P opened a savings account with YBS in May 2020. In June 2020, YBS conducted a 
review of Mr Ps account and access to it was blocked. Later on the 24 June 2020, YBS 
wrote to Mr P and explained that it had closed the account with immediate effect. YBS said it 
did this based on recent activity on the account. YBS went on to explain that Mr P needed to 
provide proof of entitlement to his funds. 
Mr P says he provided proof of entitlement. Mr P says he went to the branch as advised by 
YBS, who then called the Police whilst he was there. YBS say it did this as Mr P was 
abusive to its staff.
Then on a phone call, at the end of June 2020, YBS explained it would release the funds to 
Mr P by issuing him with a cheque. Mr P explained that he had no other bank account so 
hes unable to deposit the cheque anywhere. He asked that the money is transferred to his 
wifes account. 
On that same day Mr P spoke to another YBS advisor, who after checking with a separate 
internal department, explained that only a cheque in Mr Ps name could be issued for the 
funds.
Unhappy about this, Mr P complained to YBS. Additionally Mr P also said: 
he has been discriminated against; 
hes been treated rudely; 
hes suffered financial hardship because of this matter; 
and has had to deal with sensitive personal issues during this time
In its response to Mr Ps complaint, YBS said that it had not acted unfairly and so wouldnt 
be upholding his complaint. It explained that as a financial institution it was within its rights to 
be extra vigilant at times when releasing funds. 
Mr P remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
then looked into the matter. In summary they concluded: 
YBS has the right to review Mr Ps account at any time. And it did so in line with its 
legal and regulatory obligations;
YBS was under no obligation to provide an explanation or notice to close the 
account;
YBS closed the account in line with the terms and conditions of the account;
YBS didnt do anything wrong by sending a cheque for Mr Ps funds. This was in line 
with YBS process, and as the money was in Mr Ps account it couldnt pay it to 
anyone else.
Dissatisfied with what our investigator said, Mr P has asked that the matter be determined by 
an ombudsman. It follows this complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator for the pretty much 
the same reasons.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which YBS and Mr P had to comply with, say that it 
could close the account. The terms go onto explain what those circumstances are. And 
having looked at the information given to me by YBS, Im satisfied it was entitled to close the 
account in the way that it has done. 
As I said above, YBS had written to Mr P to explain its actions on the 24 June 2020 and in 
doing so, it explained it was acting in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
account.  
Its also worth noting that all banks and building societies in the UK are strictly regulated and 
must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are 
also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing customer relationship. That 
sometimes means banks and building societies need to restrict, or in some cases go as far 
as closing, customers accounts.Payment of Mr Ps funds 
Ive carefully considered everything Mr P has said to this service - and what he said directly 
to YBS on the phone calls Ive listened to - about why a cheque payment for the balance 
wasnt appropriate for him. I note that he says he didnt have another bank account and that 
cashing it in another way would lead to him incurring excessive charges. 
But given the all the information Ive available, including all the evidence YBS has relied on, I 
find YBSs decision to only issue a cheque to Mr P is reasonable. Im satisfied the issuance 
of a cheque is a proportionate action to ensure it complies with its wider legal obligations. 
And so I dont find its obligated to transfer Mr Ps funds to his wifes account because he 
doesnt have another account, or that it should be liable for the extra expense Mr P might 
incur by cashing the cheque.  
I appreciate that this matter has caused Mr P substantive trouble. But in the circumstances 
of this complaint, I think this is no more than an unfortunate consequence. And one that was 
unavoidable given the YBS decision to close the account  and Ive already said it hasnt 
done anything wrong by doing that. 
I note that Mr P says he couldnt open an account elsewhere. But I dont think YBS is 
responsible for this, especially as it has regulatory and legal obligations to meet.  
Other points 
Mr P has said he feels he has been discriminated against. But having listened to several 
calls between Mr P and YBSs staff, I havent seen any evidence that this is what happened. 
I havent seen that he was treated any differently than another customer wouldve been 
treated in the same circumstances.
Having said that, YBS has a duty of care to protect the interests of its customers, especially 
if there are any vulnerabilities.  So it should take particular care when making decisions it 
would otherwise make in relation to a customer or seeing how services could be adapted to 
suit the needs of their customer. 
But this must also be balanced against its other legal and regulatory obligations. So while a 
customer who might be vulnerable can be impacted more by YBS's actions, it doesn't mean 
those actions weren't still justifiable or appropriate. And as Ive said above. I find YBSs 
actions were reasonable, and I understand it took the actions it did. 
Finally, its not entirely clear what happened in the branch. Mr P says he was dealt with 
rudely and YBS say Mr P had become abusive towards its staff which lead to the Police 
being called. Based on the information Ive seen, I cant really say either way what happened. However, and broadly speaking, YBS is entitled to take measures which it deems 
appropriate to protect its staff. 
Weighing everything up, I wont be upholding Mr Ps complaint. It follows that Im not going 
to ask YBS to compensate Mr P for any trouble and upset this matter in its entirety may have 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman