DRN-3042931
The complaint
Mr V complains about the fees he is being charged by Hartley Pensions Limited for 
administering his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr Vs represented by Mr P.
What happened
In March 2018, Hartley took over the management of Mr Vs SIPP from a previous pension 
provider which had gone into administration.
For ease, Ive set out the relevant businesses involved in the setting-up and operation of Mr 
Vs SIPP below:
Choices Financial Solutions
An independent financial advisor who advised Mr V to transfer his existing pensions into the 
SIPP in February 2012.
The Lifetime SIPP Company (Lifetime)
Lifetime was a regulated SIPP operator which provided Mr Vs SIPP until March 2018 when 
it entered into administration.
Hartley Pensions Limited (Hartley)
Hartley is a regulated SIPP operator which acquired Mr Vs SIPP in March 2018 by novation 
following Lifetime entering administration.
Hartley SAS Limited (Hartley SAS)
Hartley SAS was contracted to carry out the day-to-day administration of SIPPs for Lifetime,
including collecting annual and ad-hoc fees. It continues to perform this role for Hartley
since Lifetime entered administration.
In February 2012, Choices advised Mr V to transfer his existing pensions with the Co-Op 
and AEGON into the Lifetime SIPP. £60,616 of Mr Vs SIPP funds were invested in 
Storefirst. Initially, investment returns were paid to Mr V. And in November 2017, Mr V 
received an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum.
However, Storefirst was later found to be in financial difficulties and was ultimately presented 
with a winding-up order. Mr V made a complaint to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) about the advice he had received from Choices to transfer his pensions and 
invest in Storefirst. He was paid the FSCS compensation limit of £50,000. The FSCS valued 
the Storefirst investment at £0. It didnt take assignment of the investment.
Hartley valued the Storefirst investment at a nominal amount of £1.00. It said it cant obtain a 
true valuation of the asset. But it said that as the Storefirst investment is still an active asset, 
the SIPP cant be closed and that annual administration fees in line with Lifetimes fee 
structure would still apply. So it continued to charge Mr V a total of £744 per year. This was 
broken down as a £320 annual administration fee, together with a non-standard asset fee of 
£300, plus VAT.
Mr V was unhappy that fees were being charged for an investment valued at £1.00. Mr P 
asked Hartley whether Mr V could purchase the investment himself and close the SIPP. 
Hartley set out the steps Mr V would need to take in order to do so. But it maintained that as 
the Storefirst investment remained a live asset, the annual fees would still be due. So Mr P 
asked us to look into Mr Vs complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Vs complaint should be partly upheld. He didnt consider that 
Hartley had met its obligations under Principle Six of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCAs) Principles for Business  the requirement for a financial business to act in its 
customers best interests and to treat them fairly. He also referred to a thematic review 
carried out by the FCAs predecessor which broadly stated that SIPP operators needed to 
treat their customers fairly. 
The investigator felt that Hartley was treating Mr V unfairly and charging unnecessarily high 
fees for the SIPP. He concluded that given the nature of the investment, Hartley would only 
need to carry out limited administration tasks. And he noted that Hartley offered its new 
customers similar SIPP services at a substantially lower cost. So he felt that Hartley should 
charge Mr V what it was charging new customers for its Abacus single asset SIPP, as Mr Vs 
SIPP was only holding one asset. Therefore, he considered this was a fair comparison. 
Overall, he recommended that Hartley should refund the difference between what its been 
charging Mr V in fees and the annual charge for its Abacus single asset SIPP, plus 8% 
interest. And he recommended that Hartley should give Mr V reasonable assistance to close 
the SIPP.
Hartley accepted the investigators view, albeit with reservations. It said the Abacus SIPP 
wasnt capable of holding non-standard assets. It felt its Prosperity SIPP, which could hold 
non-standard assets, was a fairer comparison. 
Mr P let us know that Mr V didnt accept the investigators assessment. In summary, he said 
that Mr V was an unsophisticated investor, who had been misadvised by Choices. He said 
that Mr V was in poor health and simply wanted the SIPP closed down, to avoid any further 
fees being charged. He felt that Hartleys assertion that a full valuation was necessary before 
the asset could be sold was ridiculous. He stated that he and Mr V didnt see how it could be 
treating customers fairly to charge more in fees than the value of the underlying investment. 
He felt it would be fairer to find that the full charges should be refunded and the SIPP should 
be closed. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide. Ahead of issuing this decision, I asked our 
investigator to let Hartley know why I was likely to conclude that redress should be 
calculated in line with the Abacus SIPP, rather than the Prosperity SIPP. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Hartley has treated Mr V fairly and so Ive decided to partly uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
First, its important I make it clear that Hartley wasnt responsible for the advice Mr V was 
given to transfer his existing pensions into the Lifetime SIPP. Neither is it responsible for any 
of the fees Mr V was charged by Lifetime prior to March 2018. Hartley is only responsible for 
administration of the SIPP after March 2018. So I need to decide whether it was fair and 
reasonable for Hartley to charge Mr V an annual fee for his SIPP after March 2018 and if so, 
what level of fee would be fair.
As the investigator explained, the FCAs Principles for Business set out fundamental 
obligations on the financial businesses it covers. In my view, Principle six is particularly 
relevant. This states that a financial business must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. And I agree that the FCAs predecessors thematic review 
also places an obligation on SIPP providers to treat their customers fairly. As such, Ive 
carefully considered Hartleys obligation to treat Mr V fairly when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the fees Hartley has charged Mr V are those which were agreed with 
Lifetime when the SIPP was established and that the non-standard asset fee was introduced 
whilst Lifetime was still the SIPP operator. And so under the terms of the SIPP, Hartley is 
contractually entitled to collect the fees. But I need to consider whether thats fair and 
reasonable in the wider circumstances. Mr Vs SIPP holds a single asset. The investment in 
has become illiquid and is effectively worthless at present, although I accept Hartley says  
Mr V has received some returns. This has resulted in Mr V being unable to transfer that 
asset or close the SIPP.
It's clear that Hartley took over Mr Vs SIPP at a time when the Storefirst investment was 
already in difficulty. I also appreciate Mr V is in a difficult situation financially and Mr P says 
he is in poor health, so I understand how frustrating it must be to be charged fees for an 
asset he considers has no value. I need to balance those considerations against the fact that 
Hartley is a commercial business and there is a cost to it in providing administration of the 
SIPP. But the fees Hartley levy upon Mr V must be fair.
I understand there are a number of tasks and responsibilities that may be required to be
carried out in relation to the administration of a SIPP. In his assessment, the investigator set 
out a list of what those things may be  but I wont repeat them all here as all parties have 
seen that list.
Hartley hasnt evidenced specifically what action has been required to administer Mr Vs
SIPP, but Im satisfied that some work does need to be undertaken. As Ive set out above, 
the fees Hartley has levied in relation to Mr Vs SIPP are the fees that were in place and 
agreed between Mr V and Lifetime when the SIPP was set up. And the non-standard asset 
fee was later imposed by Lifetime in 2016. But I dont think that automatically makes it 
appropriate for Hartley to continue with those fees.
Ive considered what Hartley would have charged a new customer for a similar service. As 
the investigator explained, Hartleys website says the following about all of the SIPP product 
it offers:
The Annual Administration Fee is charged in advance and covers the day-to-day
administration of your SIPP. This includes collecting pension contributions, claiming tax
relief, providing an annual valuation, and completing all HMRC and FCA reporting to
maintain the tax efficiency of your pension.
There is no distinction made between the different types of SIPP products Hartley offers. The Abacus SIPP attracts an annual administration fee of £175, plus VAT. It seems to me 
that Hartley is charging Mr V more for his SIPP than a it charges a new customer, on the 
basis of the previous fee agreement with Lifetime, rather than the fee reflecting the actual 
work Hartley carries out. And I think a new customer is likely to pose further work to Hartley 
than an existing customer with a single asset valued at a nominal amount. In my view, this 
isnt treating Mr V fairly.
Hartley also charges Mr V a non-standard asset fee. The regulator imposed capital 
adequacy requirements on SIPP operators, calculated by reference to the amount of non-
standard assets held in its SIPP. I accept that Mr Vs investment is a non-standard asset. 
But Hartley hasnt told us what value its attached to Mr Vs investment or how it affects its 
capital adequacy requirements. And it hasnt set out any extra costs it incurs.
Im also mindful that this situation remains ongoing. The FSCS hasnt taken assignment of 
the investment and Mr Vs SIPP cant be closed while it remains active. I dont think it would 
be fair for Hartley to continue to charge Mr V annual fees of £744, potentially for many years, 
until this situation can be resolved. I find too then that the fair outcome here is for Hartley to 
charge Mr V the fee it charges its new customers for the Abacus SIPP  bearing in mind that 
there is still some work its required to carry out in relation to it, subject to any regulatory 
restrictions that might be imposed on Hartley from time to time. And I agree that Hartley 
must refund the difference between the fees its charged Mr V since it took over operation of 
the SIPP and the fees he wouldve paid for the Abacus SIPP, together with interest of 8%.
I appreciate Hartley considers that the Abacus SIPP isnt an appropriate comparison, as the 
Abacus SIPP cant hold non-standard investments. Ive thought about this. I acknowledge 
that the Abacus SIPP is a single asset SIPP which doesnt hold non-standard assets. But  
Mr Vs investment is a single illiquid asset. And I dont think, given the status and value of 
the investment  that this situation is reflective of holding an unimpaired non-standard asset 
with a significant value. 
Hartley hasnt provided me with evidence to show that the work its undertaken in relation to 
Mr Vs SIPP justifies the higher Prosperity fees its suggested. So I find a comparison with 
the Abacus SIPP to be acceptable and calculating the refund due based on the applicable 
Abacus fee leads to a fair outcome in the circumstances of this case.
Putting things right
To put things right, Hartley must reduce the fees its charging Mr V, so that he is only being
charged the lower annual administration fee equivalent to that charged to a new customer 
for the Abacus SIPP, subject to any regulatory restrictions which may be imposed on 
Hartley from time to time. 
Hartley must also refund to Mr V the difference between what hes actually paid since it
took over the SIPP from Lifetime, and what he would have paid had he been charged the
fees set out above. Any refund must be paid plus 8% simple interest per year from the date 
each payment was made to the date of settlement.
I appreciate Mr V finds himself in a situation not of his choosing and I do understand how 
frustrating it must be for him.  Until all investments in the SIPP can be disposed of, then the 
SIPP itself cannot be closed. This is not a straightforward situation, but I think Hartley should 
provide all assistance it reasonably can to assist Mr V, to engage with any necessary parties 
to arrange for the disposal of the underlying investments and enable closure of the SIPP.I realise Mr V may be disappointed that I havent directed Hartley to cancel all fees. But as 
Ive explained, Hartley does need to carry out some tasks in relation to Mr Vs SIPP and so I 
think its reasonably entitled to charge some administration fees to reflect this. This means I 
dont think I could fairly or reasonably direct Hartley to refund all of the fees that Mr V has 
paid to it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Hartley Pensions Limited to put things right by following the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman