The complaint
Ms W complains that Virgin Money plc wont refund a p ayment she made using her Virgin 
Atlantic credit card. She says the goods werent delivered to her.  
What happened
In May 2019 Ms W bought goods costing just unde r £200 through eBay. She paid using 
PayPal acco unt, which was in turn funded by her credit card. 
Ms W says the goods werent delivered. She followed this up with the seller, who provided 
evidence that they had been sent to Ms W's address and that they had been delivered. That 
evidence included a signed receipt for the goods obtained from the delivery company which 
the seller had used. Ms W says however that nobody was at home when the goods were 
said to have been delivered and that the signature provided wasnt one she recognised. 
Ms W has explained that she tried to take the matter up with PayPal, but that it refused to 
investigate further through its own dispute resolution system; it said the seller had provided a 
valid proof of delivery. 
Ms W 
took the matter up with Virgin Money, which made a chargeback request. Chargeback 
is a means of resolving certain card payment disputes between cardholders and merchants 
and which is run by the card scheme concerned  in this case Mastercard. Because Ms Ws 
credit card payment was made to PayPal (rather than directly to the person who was selling 
the goods on eBay), the chargeback process here involved PayPal as the merchant. It 
wasnt successful, in the sense that there was no refund because PayPal was able to 
provide evidence that the goods had been delivered. 
Virgin Money did however acknowledge that it hadnt handled the chargeback request as 
well as it might have done and hadnt kept Ms W properly informed. It offered her £100 in 
recognition of that, but wouldnt refund the payment.
Ms W referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She 
was satisfied however that, in attempting the chargeback, Virgin Money had done what it 
could to try to resolve the issue between Ms W and the seller, but had been unable to obtain 
a refund. Overall, she thought Virgin Moneys offer was reasonable. Ms W didnt agree and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1724765I can fully understand why, if she didnt receive goods shed paid for, Ms W feels that 
someone should provide her with a refund. What I have to decide however is whethe r Virgin 
Money should do so, having funded the PayPal accou nt which in turn provided the payment 
to the seller.
I note that PayPal, having reviewed what had happened, took the view th at the seller had 
done enough to meet the delivery obligations of a seller of goods on eBay. The seller was 
able to show that the goods had been sent to Ms W's address. I acknowledge of course that 
Ms W says she didnt receive them, and the implication is that they were delivered to the 
wrong address and signed for by someone wh o wasnt entitled to them. That wasnt however 
enough to entitle Ms W to a refund through eBay or PayPal. 
I make no comment on whethe r or not the goods were in fact delivered to Ms W. It is 
however important that PayPal resolved her dispute with the seller in favour of the seller, 
having been persuaded that they had met their delivery obligations. In the circumstances, I 
dont believe that I can fairly conclud e the opposite or that Virgin Money should refund the 
payment Ms W made for the goods. 
I agree however that Virgin Money could have handled the chargeback claim better than it 
did, and so I leave it to Ms W to decide whethe r or not to acce pt the offer of £100 in respect 
of that.       
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Virgin Money plc to do anything further to resolve Ms 
Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to a sk Ms 
W to accept or reject my decision before 5 Octobe r 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman