DRN-3315325
The complaint
Mr W complains that Society of Lloyds has turned down a claim he made on his travel
insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr W booked a sailing trip abroad. He was due to travel between 26
January and 29 March 2020. He took out a Topsail Yachtsmans Gold annual travel
insurance policy in August 2019, which provided cover until 1 August 2020.
Mr W departed as planned. He was due to end the sailing trip in a country Ill call S and then
fly back to the UK from S a few days later on 29 March 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)
advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. And on 18 March 2020, S
government introduced Port Regulations restricting disembarkation at some of its major
ports  including the one at which Mr W was due to leave the boat.
Initially, Mr W says he was told that S authorities would allow disembarkation if passengers
had return flights booked which departed S by 25 March 2020. So his travel provider
rearranged Mr Ws return flight and brought it forward to that date. But Mr W later learned
that in fact, he still wasnt allowed to disembark the boat. On 23 March 2020, the FCDO
advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK.
Ultimately, Mr W says that following Embassy intervention, it was agreed that he could
disembark the boat, so long as he left S by the time national lockdown was imposed there,
from midnight on 26 March. His travel provider was able to rearrange Mr Ws return flight
and he flew back to the UK on 26 March 2020. He made a claim on his travel insurance
policy for the costs associated with rearranging his travel plans and cutting short his trip. He
considered hed been quarantined on board the boat by S authorities following the
imposition of the Port Regulations.
Lloyds turned down Mr Ws claim. It didnt agree that hed been quarantined in port. It
considered his claim had been caused by entry and exit restrictions imposed by S
government, which it said wasnt covered by the policy terms and conditions.
Mr W was unhappy with Lloyds decision and asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator accepted that the policy didnt cover holiday curtailment due to a change in
FCDO advice. But he noted that the policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a
policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. He felt this meant Mr W wouldnt have been
covered if he cut short his trip after the FCDO advice changed on 23 March 2020 and he
wouldnt have been covered if he remained abroad. He didnt think the policy terms made
the combined effect of these terms clear. And he considered that if Mr W had been aware
that he wouldnt be covered if FCDO guidance changed after he travelled, he wouldve been
unlikely to take out the policy. So he felt it would be fair for Lloyds to assess Mr Ws claim in
line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Lloyds disagreed. In particular, it told us that the FCDO exclusion wouldnt have applied to
Mr Ws policy as he was already abroad when the FCDO advice changed. It said the FCDO
exclusion only applied if a policyholder travelled to a destination after a change in FCDO 
advice. It said that all cover under the contract wouldve remained in place had Mr W stayed 
abroad.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 February 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think itd been fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr Ws claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Ws policy and the circumstances of his claim, in deciding whether Lloyds has
treated him fairly.
First, Ive noted Lloyds detailed submissions in relation to the FCDO exclusion in this case. I
appreciate it says that this exclusion would never have applied to effectively invalidate Mr
Ws cover had he remained abroad until his original date of return. However, I dont think I
need to make a finding on this point, as I currently find that Mr Ws claim should be covered
for another reason, which Ill now explore.
Section 1 of the policy is named Cancellation and Disruption. This provides cover for a
range of events, including cancellation, curtailment, alteration of itinerary and missed
departure, if one of a listed, specified occurrences happens. This includes a policyholders
quarantine.
In this case, theres no dispute that S government imposed Port Regulations on 18 March
2020, which meant that Mr W wasnt able to disembark as hed intended. Theres also no
dispute that these restrictions were imposed as part of S governments response to Covid-
19. The effect of these restrictions on Mr W were that he was unable to leave the boat hed
sailed on as hed planned to and had to remain onboard, in port. Mr W tells us that he was
originally informed that he would be able to disembark if he brought forward his return flight,
although this was later rescinded prior to Embassy intervention.
Mr W considers that the Port Regulations amounted to his being quarantined by S
government, which led to the rearrangement of his trip. Lloyds disagrees with Mr Ws
interpretation. Ive thought about this very carefully.
The contract of insurance doesnt define what Lloyds means by quarantine. Ive had regard
to the Cambridge dictionary which provides the following definition:
a specific period of time in which a person or animal that has a disease, or may have one,
must stay or be kept away from others in order to prevent the spread of the disease.
Ive looked closely at the Port Regulations, which led to Mr W needing to remain onboard the
boat until 26 March 2020. I accept they state that the restrictions will apply until further
notice, rather than setting out a specific time period. Ive taken into account too though what
I think are the ordinary, everyday meaning of the words as well as the context in which the
word quarantine is used within the policy wording.
It seems to me that following the imposition of the regulations, Mr W was held on board the
boat and wasnt allowed to disembark as planned or follow his original schedule. It appears
that this was because of fears that the crew and passengers had or may have had Covid-19.
And that they were therefore isolated on board the boat in order to prevent the spread ofCovid-19. Ultimately, Mr W was only permitted to disembark in order to catch an early return
flight, which hed already had to rearrange due to the changing rules and remain held
onboard until 26 March 2020. I think a reasonable person would therefore consider that Mr
W was in quarantine and that this was the reason that he had to bring forward his return to
the UK and incur expenses in doing so.
On this basis then, I currently find that Mr Ws claim is covered by the quarantine provision in
the Cancellation and Disruption section of the policy. So Im satisfied that the fair and
reasonable outcome is for Lloyds to assess Mr Ws claim in line with the cover provided
under the Cancellation and Disruption section of the contract and the remaining policy terms
and conditions.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr W accepted my provisional findings.
Lloyds disagreed with my provisional decision and Ive summarised its detailed response:
Taking both dictionary definitions of quarantine into account, it considers there are 
two aspects to quarantine, both of which need to be satisfied in order for a state of 
quarantine to exist.
- Theres a risk of disease being transmitted by the quarantined party;
- That they are being held in a defined area for a given time  whether thats 
measured in time or by infection state  in order to mitigate that risk.
It referred to quarantine hotels and periods of self-isolation to protect against either of 
the risk of Covid-19 or where a person is known to be infectious. It felt that was how 
most people would see quarantine as working in practice.
By it said that by implacable logic  there must be a third element to the definition of 
quarantine in that the party will be released from quarantine after their time of 
infection risk has passed. It didnt feel a situation could be classed as quarantine if 
theres no prospect of release or if a party is free to move elsewhere. In Mr Ws case, 
it didnt agree that he was being held in a defined area  he simply wasnt allowed 
into S.
It argued that the yacht and its crew were free to leave port at any time. Whether 
theyd wanted to was another question, but they couldve done. This was because 
the yacht was affected by a border closure rather than quarantine.
Lloyds has said the acid test is to look at the date stamps in a travellers passport as 
to whether or not quarantine was imposed. If the date stamp showed Mr W had 
entered S some days before he left on his repatriation flight, he probably had been 
held in quarantine. If the dates are the same, then Mr W had simply been denied 
entry to S. It felt Id tried to shoehorn a border closure/port restriction into the 
definition of quarantine.
It also referred to the cover provided by the curtailment section of the policy. It said 
that there was no cover for Mr Ws additional travel and accommodation costs in 
these circumstances and Mr W hadnt yet made a claim for his unused costs.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Ive given careful consideration to Lloyds response, I still dont think 
it was fair for Lloyds to turn down Mr Ws claim and Ill explain why.
Its clear that Lloyds feels strongly that the situation in which Mr W found himself is unlikely 
to be quarantine in line with a dictionary definition. Thats because it seems to say that 
unless Mr W was held either in S or on the yacht for a defined period of time until he was 
deemed not to be an infection-risk, he cant fairly be considered to have been in quarantine. 
But Lloyds chose not to include any definition of quarantine and the policy wording doesnt 
suggest that the quarantine needs to be time limited. If thats what it intended to cover, then 
it had the opportunity to make that clear by clearly defining the policy term. 
Although the dictionary definition I referred to in my provisional decision refers to a specified 
time period, Ive also considered other dictionary definitions of quarantine too, to gain an 
even broader picture. These include the following:
a period of isolation or restrictions on movements intended to prevent the spread of 
disease. 
a general period of time in which people are not allowed to leave their homes or travel 
freely, so that they do not catch or spread a disease. 
a state of enforced isolation.
Its clear that not all of the definitions Ive set out above include a specified time period. But 
Ive also thought about what is fair and reasonable. Mr Ws claim arose at a time when the 
pandemic was in its very early days and testing was not widely available in most countries. I 
also dont think that Lloyds stance fairly reflects the unprecedented circumstances of Covid-
19 and that attempts to control the spread of the disease reflected that. And, taking into 
account all of the above, I think the definitions are broad enough to conclude that by 
confining Mr W to a yacht due to the risk of Covid-19, he was in a state of enforced isolation. 
Id add too that I think its fair to say that Mr W wasnt permitted to travel freely in order to 
prevent him contracting or spreading Covid-19. Overall then, I think the definitions of 
quarantine are broad enough that I can reasonably conclude that this was a form of 
quarantine, even if it wasnt time limited. And that a reasonable person would also have 
considered Mr W to be in quarantine.
As I set out above, the Port Regulations imposed by S government on 18 March 2020 
banned passengers from disembarking from eight ports across S, including the port Mr W 
was due to disembark at. But Ive also noted that on 15 March 2020, cruise ships were 
banned from entering S ports due to the risk of Covid-19. And indeed, a cruise liner and a 
cargo vessel were held from 17 March 2020 onwards for a period of time, due to Covid-19, 
at the port it appears Mr W was due to disembark at. In my view, this appears suggestive 
that crews may not have simply been free to leave S waters and travel on elsewhere. 
Even if the yachts crew could have simply sailed elsewhere though, I dont think this 
materially alters my view that Mr W found himself in effective quarantine. I say that first 
because this wasnt what happened. The crew opted to remain where the boat was and 
await disembarkation of passengers. Secondly, its clear that Mr W wasnt free to leave the 
yacht at the time hed planned to. I think then that its most likely that he and the other yacht 
crew and passengers were therefore held on board, away from others, due to fears that they might have or transmit Covid-19. I find that being held on board a yacht on the water seems 
squarely to suggest that Mr W was being held in a defined area, even if that area wasnt 
strictly a government-designated quarantine hotel.
I dont dispute that S government had imposed border restrictions which affected the yachts 
itinerary. But Ive considered the wider impact these restrictions had on Mr W and what I 
think is fair and reasonable in these specific circumstances. In my view, the effect of the 
border restrictions was that Mr W was held on the yacht, unable to leave, away from those 
onshore in S, to prevent the spread of Covid-19. He was only able to leave the yacht at the 
point a repatriation flight could be arranged and accordingly, the potential risk of him 
spreading Covid-19 in S could be mitigated. As such then, I still think that in line with the 
ordinary and natural meaning of the word quarantine and a reasonable persons view, Mr W 
was in quarantine. And this was the reason why his trip had to be curtailed.
Taking all of the above into account it seems most likely to me that the reason for cutting the 
trip short was because there were concerns that the passengers would be carrying the 
infection if they disembarked as planned. So, fundamentally the requirement for Mr W to stay 
on board and then travel home early were linked to controlling the spread of Covid-19, and I 
think its reasonable to conclude that this was a form of quarantine. 
In summary then, Im still satisfied that Mr Ws claim is covered by the quarantine provision 
in the Cancellation and Disruption section of the policy. Ive noted Lloyds concerns 
regarding the costs for which Mr W has claimed and whether or not these would be covered 
by the policy terms. I should make it clear that my direction here is for Lloyds to assess Mr 
Ws claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Im not making an 
award of financial compensation or telling Lloyds what costs, if any, it must pay. It will be for 
Mr W to now provide Lloyds with evidence it may require to allow it to consider a curtailment 
claim in accordance with the contract terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Society of Lloyds to assess Mr Ws claim in line with the cover provided
under the Cancellation and Disruption section of the contract and the remaining terms and
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman