DRN-3878649
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was given unsuitable advice by True Potential Wealth Management 
LLP (True Potential) to transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with 
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr R with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £375,684.66.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr R wasnt sure what to do about his pension so he contacted True Potential for advice.
After True Potential recorded some information about Mr Rs circumstances and objectives, 
on 30 November 2017 it recommended he transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal 
pension plan. It also recommended a pension provider and an investment strategy that it 
deemed matched Mr Rs balanced attitude to risk. True Potential said the recommendation 
would meet Mr Rs objectives by providing sufficient levels of income in retirement and the 
ability to provide varying levels of income at different stages of retirement.
In 2022, Mr R, through his representative, complained to True Potential about the advice he 
received, believing it may have been unsuitable for him and that he had suffered a financial 
loss as a result. True Potential looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. In summary it said, the recommendation resulted in Mr R being put in a 
position whereby his retirement goals would be met, hes financially benefitted from the 
transfer because of the enhanced CETV and his family will also benefit significantly in the 
future compared to remaining in the DB scheme. It said there was no evidence to suggest 
Mr R had suffered a loss.
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint, Mr R complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our Investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and they thought the advice was 
unsuitable because Mr R wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed 
by transferring. And they didnt think there were any other compelling reasons to 
demonstrate the transfer was in Mr Rs best interests  for example there was nothing to 
show that he needed control or flexibility and his concerns about the scheme and moving to 
the PPF werent sufficient reasons to make the transfer suitable.
True Potential disagreed. In summary it said it met all of its regulatory obligations and the 
advice was suitable and in Mr Rs best interests having regard for his personal and financial 
needs and circumstances.
In August 2023, whilst the complaint was waiting to be referred for an Ombudsmans 
decision, True Potential said that, without admission of liability it was prepared to carry out a 
loss assessment in the interests of settling the matter. It then informed our Investigator that 
the resulting redress calculation showed Mr R had suffered no financial loss. But it said it 
was willing to pay Mr R £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he had been 
caused in line with the Investigators recommendation. 
 
Our Investigator wrote to Mr R in December 2023 to explain that theyd checked the inputs 
True Potential had used to produce the loss calculation using the FCAs BSPS-specific 
redress calculator. They said that based on what theyd seen, and factoring in two minor 
incorrect inputs which hadnt made a material difference to things, the calculation had been 
carried out appropriately. They said the calculation showed that Mr R had suffered no 
financial loss and that his personal pension had sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB 
scheme benefits at retirement. They explained that no redress was due to Mr R, but that 
True Potential had agreed to pay the recommended award of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered. 
Mr R, through his representative said he still wanted an Ombudsman to look at the 
complaint. He said he didnt think the adviser charges had been correctly considered.
The complaint therefore comes to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand True Potential is still disputing that it gave Mr R unsuitable advice. 
Nevertheless, in order to conclude the matter, its already carried out a loss calculation. So I 
dont see the need to address the suitability of its advice to Mr R in detail. 
That said, I agree with the Investigators view that the advice was unsuitable and not in 
Mr Rs best interests for broadly similar reasons. And my reasons can be summarised as 
follows: 
The growth rates required to match the benefits from the DB scheme, particularly if 
Mr R were to take early retirement, seem too high to ensure he would be financially 
better off by transferring out of the DB scheme.
Mr R didnt need to give up the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme in order to 
achieve early retirement, if thats what he ultimately decided, or have flexible access to his pension funds. Thats because Mr R was a member of his employers DC 
scheme which already provided him with the flexibility he claimed he needed  he 
wasnt committed to take its benefits in a set way. Mr R was aged only 44 at the time 
of the advice, so he likely had more than 20 years to his target retirement age during 
which he wouldve built up a significant fund in his employers DC scheme. And he 
could access this at whatever age he chose to retire. I cant see that True Potential 
explained to Mr R that there was no requirement for him to give up the safeguarded 
benefits from the DB scheme in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. 
Mr R could have taken lump sums from his DC scheme as and when required and 
adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr R 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve 
likely given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided, 
which was in no way certain as recorded in the advice paperwork at the time.
Mr Rs income need was recorded as being £15,000. But I dont think he could 
reasonably know at this time what hed need when he retired. And True Potential 
doesnt appear to have carried out any detailed assessment to interrogate this figure. 
Without a realistic understanding of Mr Rs true needs in retirement, I dont think it 
was in his best interests to transfer at this time. 
Mr Rs DB pension was estimated to be around £24,795 a year at 65 according to his 
time to choose information  a guaranteed and escalating income for life, which 
wasnt likely to be bettered by transferring. I think this together with his DC scheme 
couldve likely met his future income needs and objectives in retirement. I think this 
was a more appropriate way for Mr R to meet his retirement needs rather than risking 
his guaranteed benefits in an attempt to do so.
The different death benefits provided by a personal pension wasnt worth giving up 
the guarantees offered by the DB scheme. Both the BSPS2 and PPFs death benefits 
were guaranteed and they didnt rely on investment growth or how much was left in 
Mr Rs pension pot at the date of his death.
 
I understand that Mr R may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer 
had handled his pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was True 
Potentials role to objectively address those concerns. All signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established at the time. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr R with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash, which wasnt going to 
be bettered by transferring. So, I dont think any concerns he held about this meant 
that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was in Mr Rs best interests to give up 
his DB scheme benefits. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr R 
wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme.Putting things right
Ill focus in this decision on how to put things right for Mr R as no agreement could be 
reached. The aim is to put Mr R back in the financial position he would have been in at 
retirement had he remained in the DB scheme. True Potential carried out a calculation using 
the specific BSPS calculator provided by the FCA, which is what I would expect them to do 
in the circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
And this information cant be changed by firms.
In answer to Mr Rs concerns about the fees and charges not being considered properly, the 
calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year and 
product charges of 0.75% per year, which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by True Potential, which are personal to Mr R. 
These include Mr Rs personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he 
left the scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if 
he had not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Like the Investigator, I can see True Potential used an incorrect valuation figure for Mr Rs 
pension fund  it should be £437,756.03 rather than £436,062.01 - and it appears it used an 
incorrect date of birth for Mr Rs wife; albeit in the output evidence the correct date is shown. 
But Im satisfied that neither of these things make a material difference here.
The calculation in Mr Rs case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr R has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
True Potential has still offered to pay £200 as recommended by our Investigator for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him.
I think the calculation carried out by True Potential is appropriate in the circumstances and 
no redress for financial losses is due to Mr R. I think their offer to pay him £200 for the 
distress and worry he experienced is fair in the circumstances  I think this appropriately 
compensates him and recognises the emotional and practical impact the unsuitable advice 
had on him.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr R a 
sum of £200 for the worry he says this matter has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman