DRN-1705274
The complaint
Miss V complained that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility for this complaint.
What happened
Miss V took out the PPI in February 1997. AXA said that the sale took place by phone, and 
that Miss V wasnt advised to take the PPI. Miss V couldnt remember much about the sale, 
but said that she hadnt agreed to take out the PPI. 
The policy cost £1.00 for each £100 Miss V owed on her store card, and provided accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. If shed successfully claimed on the policy, each month it 
wouldve paid out 15% of what she owed on the card when she stopped working. This 
wouldve carried on until she returned to work or the balance was cleared. The policy also 
included life cover and purchase protection cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to say that the policy was mis-sold. 
So she didnt uphold the complaint. Miss V disagreed and asked that an ombudsman review 
her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Vs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA told us that Miss V took out the store card in August 1996, but at that point did not 
choose to take PPI. AXA said the sale took place over the phone, about six months 
afterwards, and Ive no reason to doubt their records.
Miss V hasnt been able to give us any detailed recollections of the sale  which is 
unsurprising as it happened so long ago. As there is no documentary information from the 
point of sale, Ive also considered what we know about other, similar, PPI sales by AXA at 
around this time. But Ive not seen general problems with PPI being added to cards without 
consent.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss V said, but on balance, I dont think I can fairly say its 
most likely that the PPI was added to her store card without her knowledge and consent, 
which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I simply dont 
have enough evidence that this is what happened. 
AXA didnt advise Miss V to take out the PPI. But it should still have given her enough 
information for her to decide if the policy was right for her. 
I cant know what was discussed during the phone call, so its possible AXA didnt explain 
the cost and benefits as clearly as it should have. I also cant say whether the salesperson 
clearly pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover - but I cant see that Miss V 
wouldve been affected by any of these.
Miss V told us that, when she took out the policy, she wouldnt have been entitled to sick pay 
from her employer, and neither did she have any savings she couldve relied on. I think Miss 
V couldve found it difficult to make the card repayments if shed been off sick from work or 
had lost her job. So I think the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit.
Overall, although I cant say that AXA fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Miss V 
would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection for her if she couldnt work. This means Miss V isnt worse off as a result of 
what AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman