DRN-4446417
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money dealt with his 
account.
What happened
Mr W says his Individual Savings Account (ISA) matured in November 2022. He says the 
account disappeared from Virgin Moneys systems despite him providing maturity 
instructions. Mr W says he was extremely worried by the possible loss of his life savings, 
and it took about 18 days to locate his money. He says Virgin Money didnt deal 
appropriately with him and would like compensation as well as his lost interest repaid.
Virgin Money accepts it made a series of mistakes and has apologised. It accepts there were 
long call times and accepts a lack of response. Its offered compensation and to pay for the 
lost interest.
Mr W brought his complaint to us, and our investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended compensation. The investigator recommended Virgin Money pay a total of 
£350 which both parties accepted.
Mr W now asks Virgin Money for a more detailed explanation about what took place and in 
particular where his money went for the 18-day period.
Virgin Money says the money wasnt missing and has again apologised for what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont require Virgin Money to do 
anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no issue here that Virgin Money didnt deal with the ISA maturity appropriately. I 
dont need to set out in detail what took place as Virgin Money accepts that. In summary I 
accept Mr W would have been extremely concerned about the location of his money and 
spent some time trying to sort matters out. I agree that the compensation that has been paid 
is fair and reasonable, which I can see has been paid as well as accepted by Mr W.
The only real issue for me to consider is what if anything Virgin Money ought to do in order 
to provide Mr W with a further explanation about what took place.
Im satisfied that Virgin Money has apologised on more than one occasion to Mr W and 
again on 20 October 2023 in an e-mail. And it has provided an explanation for what took 
place, confirming the money was not missing in November 2022. I cant see what else 
Virgin Money can do here. Its clear Virgin Money made mistakes and its also clear Mr W 
was concerned that his money was missing but the money was later confirmed not to be 
missing.
I accept Mr W may have unanswered questions and will no doubt remain concerned about 
what took place in November 2022. But Im satisfied overall Virgin Money has compensated 
him and paid for the potential lost interest. I also find Virgin Money has provided an 
explanation as best it can about what took place but more importantly apologising for the 
mistakes. I appreciate Mr W questions how long Virgin Money took to investigate his 
complaint and I understand his frustration, but complaint handing is not a regulated activity. 
And not something I can comment on any further.
I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
Putting things right
Virgin Money has paid appropriate compensation and apologised. I dont require it to do 
anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to do 
anything further in the circumstances of this complaint and that it has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman