DRN-3126284
The complaint
Mr V complains that TICORP Limited shouldnt have sold him a single trip travel insurance 
policy. Avanti is a trading name of TICORP Limited, so Ill refer to Avanti throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Mr V took out a single trip travel insurance policy online through Avanti on 19 July 2020. The 
policy was taken out to cover a trip Mr V planned to take to a country Ill call B between 22 
and 31 July 2020. Mr V paid £27.64 for the policy, which was underwritten by an insurer Ill 
call G. Mr V didnt immediately receive the policy paperwork, so he spoke with Avanti on 21 
July 2020 and the documents were emailed to him.
Mr V travelled to B as planned on 22 July 2020. Unfortunately, while he was away, he 
became very unwell and ultimately made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the costs 
associated with his illness and return to the UK. G turned down the claim because it said that 
at the point Mr V had travelled, there was Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly the FCO) advice against all but essential travel to B. The policy 
specifically excluded any claim if a policyholder had travelled abroad against FCDO advice.
Unhappy with Gs decision, Mr V complained to Avanti about the sale of the travel insurance 
policy. Briefly, he felt that when itd sold him the policy, Avanti had known both his 
destination and trip dates. So he said it ought to have been aware that he wouldnt be 
covered at all for his trip and therefore, it ought to have refused to sell him the policy.
Avanti didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold to Mr V. It said that during the sales 
process, itd been made clear that there was no cover if a policyholder travelled against 
FCDO advice.  And this was also set out clearly in the policy documents. But it did offer to 
refund Mr Vs premiums as it acknowledged that he hadnt been able to claim under the 
policy benefits.
Mr V didnt accept Avantis offer and he asked us to consider whether the policy had been 
mis-sold to him.
Our investigator thought Avantis offer to refund the premiums was fair. She considered that 
as Mr V had taken out his policy online, Avanti hadnt given him advice about whether or not 
to take out the policy. She set out the relevant regulators rules setting out a brokers 
obligations when selling insurance on a non-advised basis, including the need to provide 
clear, fair and not misleading information about a policy.
She felt that Avanti had made it clear, both during the sales process and in the 
documentation, that the policy wouldnt provide cover if a policyholder travelled against 
FCDO advice. And she didnt think itd been Avantis duty to check whether there was any 
FCDO advice against travel to B at the point Mr V took out the insurance. And she noted too 
that at the relevant time, FCDO advice had been changing daily and she didnt think it 
wouldve been possible for Avanti to check the relevant advice for every customer or 
potential customer.
Mr V disagreed and Ive summarised his detailed response:
He felt that the FCDO exclusion clauses only applied to claims which were due to 
Covid-19. He hadnt suffered from Covid-19  hed become unwell with an unrelated 
condition;
Disclaimers in the policy documentation couldnt invalidate his policy, as the schedule 
clearly set out his destination and dates of travel;
If Avanti wasnt aware if the policy it was selling was invalid without regard for the 
consequences, this was gross professional negligence;
Avanti has far more information than a traveller and it has a professional duty to keep 
fully informed. If its aware that it cant provide a traveller with valid insurance, then it 
shouldnt sell it;
Once Avanti took payment, entered into the contract and issued the policy document, 
it was bound by the terms of the contract to insure a traveller;
If Avanti hadnt sold him the policy, hed never have been able to travel to B, as the 
airline wouldnt have permitted him to fly and immigration wouldnt have allowed him 
into the country;
Social media firms can scan and pick up content. So he felt it mustve been possible 
for Avanti to pick up the fact that hed applied for a policy to cover a trip to B, which 
was subject to FCDO advice against travel and not sell him the policy;
Avantis actions had put his life in danger.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important that I make clear that this 
decision will only consider whether Avanti mis-sold Mr Vs policy. Im aware he made a 
complaint about Gs decision to turn down the claim, which has been looked at separately by 
this service. I should also make clear that the contract of insurance was between Mr V and 
G. Avantis role was limited to selling the policy and providing policy paperwork.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr V, Ive decided that Avantis offer to refund 
his premium is fair and reasonable. I dont think the policy was mis-sold to him. Ill explain 
why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr V that whilst Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his submissions to us, Ive carefully read and considered all hes said and sent us. 
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each and every point hes raised and 
our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Did Avanti give Mr V enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy to 
allow him to make an informed choice as to whether or not to buy it?
Theres no dispute that Mr V took out the travel insurance policy online. Theres no 
suggestion that he had any interaction with Avantis staff during the online application 
process. Im satisfied then that Avanti didnt advise Mr V to take out the policy. This means it 
didnt need to check that the policy was suitable for Mr V, or that the contract met his needs.
But as the investigator explained, the relevant regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, 
has set out rules and obligations brokers and insurers must follow within the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). ICOBS 2.2.2 says: When a firm communicates information, including a financial promotion, 
to a customer it must ensure that is clear, fair and not misleading.
ICOBS 6.1.5 (1) says: A firm must ensure that a customer is given appropriate information 
about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
This means that Avanti needed to give Mr V enough clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy so that he could decide whether or not it was right for him.
The sales process
Ive carefully considered the sales process that Mr V wouldve followed when he applied for 
the policy online. Avanti has provided us with screenshots which show the same information 
that Mr V wouldve seen in July 2020.
The first screen is entitled Your Travel Quote and requires a potential policyholder to enter 
details about themselves and their planned trip. Towards the top of the screen is a section 
with an emboldened heading called Important Cover Update. This says:
COVID-19 Cover: Our policies cover Trip Cancellation, Emergency Medical and
Repatriation expenses if you are affected by COVID-19 (coronavirus).
Please note that this cover only applies to trips undertaken if the FCO have not
advised against all but essential travel to your destination prior to your departure.
The second screen includes a Travel Eligibility Statement. At the bottom of this screen, set 
slightly separately, the screen states: 
Please note:
Claims will be invalid if travelling against the advice of the government or FCO
www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
And before the policy can be purchased, a potential policyholder is asked to agree to a 
declaration to confirm that theyve read the policy terms and conditions.
In my view then, within the eligibility statement section, Avanti set out clearly and 
transparently that claims on the policy would be invalid if a policyholder travelled against 
FCDO advice. So Im satisfied this exclusion was drawn to Mr Vs attention in the sales 
process. And that Avanti met its obligation to provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information during the sales process.
The policy documentation
Next, Ive considered the policy documentation which Mr V was sent on 21 July 2020, 
following the sale and prior to his departure. Avanti wasnt responsible for the content of the 
policy paperwork  that was Gs responsibility. Avanti was responsible for ensuring that the 
documentation was sent to Mr V. While I appreciate the paperwork took two days to be 
issued, Im satisfied that the documentation was sent to Mr V prior to his departure. And 
having this paperwork was clearly important to Mr V because he chased Avanti to send it to 
him. So it seems reasonably likely that Mr V wouldve checked at least the main features of 
cover.For completeness though, Ive set out the main features of the policy paperwork. The policy 
schedule sets out the details of Mr Vs specific cover. I accept that the schedule sets out his 
trip dates and the destination. So I dont dispute that hed given Avanti details about his trip. 
Page 2 of the schedule says:
Important Information regarding travel advice
We can still cover you, but please be aware that if you are travelling against the advice of the 
Government or the Foreign & Commonwealth Office, you will not be able to make a claim. 
However, as soon as restrictions are lifted and the FCO removes the country from their list 
our normal policy benefits will resume.
Page 40 of the policy terms says that claims under any section of the policy wont cover: 
Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar governing body have advised 
against all, or all but essential travel.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), on page 2, includes a section called 
Where am I covered? This states:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For
further details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
As such then, Im satisfied Avanti provided Mr V with policy paperwork on Gs behalf, which 
included information about the FCDO exclusion on cover.
Did Avanti have a duty not to sell Mr V insurance cover?
Ive thought carefully about this point because I appreciate how strongly Mr V feels that 
Avanti had a duty to decline to sell him cover. As Ive explained, I agree that Mr V did tell 
Avanti his relevant travel dates and destination. And its common ground that when Mr V 
took out the policy, the FCDO had advised against all but essential travel to B.
But, first, as Ive set out above, Avanti didnt advise Mr V to take out the policy. If it had 
specifically pointed out to Mr V during the online sale that he wouldnt be covered at all for 
his trip, I think this wouldve constituted advice. Notwithstanding that though, Im satisfied 
that Avanti gave Mr V a clear warning during the sales process that he wouldnt be covered if 
he travelled against FCDO advice. And it provided him with a link to the FCDO website. So it 
was open to Mr V to check Bs status at that point and whether the policy would be of use to 
him. Additionally, it was Mr Vs responsibility to ensure the policy was right for him.
And in July 2020, FCDO advice was changing very regularly, as countries were added to 
and removed from travel corridors. So travel to a country may have been advised against 
on one day and restrictions lifted on the next. I dont think it wouldve been reasonable to 
expect Avanti to constantly amend its systems in line with daily FCDO advice changes or to 
scan every potential customers applications and automatically turn them down or approve 
them based on ever-changing information. Its also important I point out that were not the 
industry regulator, so it wouldnt be for me to direct Avanti to change its internal systems or 
procedures.
Overall then, Im not persuaded that Avanti had a duty not to sell Mr V travel insurance.Avantis offer
Whilst it doesnt agree that it mis-sold the policy, Avanti has agreed to refund Mr Vs 
premium, as it acknowledges he couldnt claim on the benefits. As I dont find that Avanti 
made any material error in the way it sold the policy, I think this offer is more than fair in the 
circumstances. So it follows that Im satisfied this offer is reasonable. I appreciate Mr V went 
through a painful and stressful illness and Im sorry to hear he was so unwell. But Im not 
telling TICORP to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that TICORP Limiteds offer to refund 
Mr Vs premium is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I make no further award against TICORP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman