DRN-2790744
The complaint
Miss M complains that EUI Limited (EUI) provided incorrect information to the credit 
reference agency about her motor insurance payments, leading to her application for a 
mortgage being declined.
What happened
Miss M had car insurance, which she paid for on a monthly basis through a credit agreement 
with EUI. After being declined for a mortgage, and then registering with a credit reference 
agency (CRA), Miss M found that EUI had provided incorrect information about her account 
status. Her credit report showed a balance of £190 with EUI, and monthly payments set at 
£173.
Miss M complained to EUI and it notified the CRA of the correct monthly payment. EUI also 
said it would take around 40 days and referred Miss M back to the CRA for corrections to be 
made to her file. She remained unhappy with the advice being given because she wanted 
the matter fixed quickly. She explained that she might lose her second property if the 
incorrect credit file caused a further declined mortgage application.
Our investigator upheld Miss Ms complaint. She thought that EUI hadnt informed Miss M 
correctly and that its failure to provide accurate information about her account was a shortfall 
which warranted compensation of £75.
Miss M agreed that her complaint should be upheld but she didnt think the compensation 
took into consideration her unpaid leave, costs of checking her credit file, or her declined 
mortgage application.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
But Im satisfied that the recommended payment of £75 for the inconvenience caused is fair, 
so I wont be asking EUI to pay any more. Ill explain.
Miss Ms overriding complaint is that she thinks her mortgage application was declined 
because of the incorrect data EUI supplied to the CRA. While she accepts that her complaint 
has been upheld, she doesnt think £75 compensation is enough given that she paid £30 just 
to obtain her credit report.
I can see that Miss M took out a credit agreement for her car insurance which renewed in 
January 2020. EUI added Miss Ms final payment from her old agreement onto the first 
payment of her new agreement. Because this was the start of a new policy, EUI reported 
what it believed to be accurate information for that first month  that the monthly payment 
was £173. However, there were two problems which arose from that:
EUI didnt update the information for the following month when the regular monthly 
payment dropped to £68, and
EUI had already offered to waive the final payment of the old agreement, so it should 
never have been added anyway.
Once Miss M made EUI aware of the problem, it updated the information it sent to the CRA. 
So, at this point, Im satisfied it corrected the mistake.
Miss M only became aware of the mistake when she had a mortgage application declined. 
When she got a copy of her credit report, she saw that EUI had reported to the CRA that 
there was a balance on her loan agreement. Miss M says her mortgage advisor confirmed 
that the mortgage was declined because of the information about her EUI loan agreement. 
However, Miss Ms mortgage advisor hasnt confirmed this in writing, and the lender wont 
give a reason for declining the mortgage.
Firstly, I should point out that the balance of £190 on the account was correct. The balance 
wasnt overdue  it simply reflected the three payments remaining on her credit agreement 
which would be taken as usual during each of the next three months. The balance wasnt an 
indication of a poor payment history. In fact, it showed that Miss M had kept to her credit 
agreement and paid monthly instalments on time, so its unlikely to have adversely affected 
her mortgage application in the way she believed it had. Im satisfied that EUI reported an 
accurate account balance to the CRA, so I dont think theres anything to put right here.
I understand Miss Ms mortgage adviser said the information about her car insurance credit 
agreement caused her application to be declined. Looking at the screenshot Miss M 
provided of her credit report, I can see it is just one out of 31 pages of her credit file. So, its 
not clear what other information the lender may have considered. Mortgage providers base 
their decisions on many factors, not all of which are directly related to the applicants credit 
file. And the mortgage provider doesnt have to say why it chose not to offer a mortgage. In 
the absence of any supporting evidence, I cant fairly say the mortgage lender refused the 
application because of anything EUI did. So, I see no reason for EUI to compensate Miss M 
for her additional mortgage costs. 
I understand there was some confusion about how the credit file should be corrected. Miss 
M thinks EUI shouldve done it, but EUI says the CRA must make the changes. Ive looked 
at the relevant CRAs website and it says:
Well add a note to yourreport so that any organisations looking at it are aware that the 
information is under dispute.
If the data supplier has agreed to amend the information, they will usually do it the next time 
they send information to us. This may be monthly.
If they decide not to amend the information well have to close the dispute. This is because 
we cant change the data ourselves without their permission. 
EUI has a duty to provide accurate account information, and the CRA records what is 
provided. Therefore, the CRA relies on the accuracy of the information it receives, but it is 
responsible for making the changes of which it is notified. So, both parties have some 
responsibility in making sure the credit file is accurate. 
Here, EUI incorrectly reported that Miss Ms regular monthly payments would be £173. 
When she complained, it didnt provide her with accurate information about how the changes would be made, and it took a few attempts to clarify what the first payment shouldve been. I 
can see why this wouldve caused confusion and inconvenience. Because of this, and the 
confusion around the process for correcting information on the credit file, I think 
compensation of £75 is fair.
I know Miss M doesnt think £75 is enough given her declined mortgage application and the 
cost she incurred getting a copy of her credit report. Although Miss M paid £14.99 on two 
occasions to view her report, I cant fairly hold EUI responsible for that cost. Thats because 
the information needed can be obtained free of charge without taking out a monthly 
subscription. And, while EUI provided the incorrect amount for the monthly payment, I cant 
see any evidence that it reported anything adverse which mightve caused significant 
concern for a lender.
 
Overall, its clear that EUI made a mistake when it carried over to the first monthly payment 
what shouldve been a waived balance. But the balance and payment history information 
was correct and theres no evidence that EUIs mistake caused Miss M any loss. Im 
satisfied that compensation of £75 if a fair amount in recognition of its mistake.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and EUI Limited 
must:
pay Miss M £75 compensation for providing inaccurate information to the credit 
reference agency about the amount of her monthly payments, and for the confusion 
caused around the process for correcting the information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman