DRN-3954145
The complaint
Mrs A complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has turned down a claim she made on a 
personal private medical insurance policy and that it applied an exclusion to the contract.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties and therefore, I havent set 
this out in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Mrs A was insured by AXA under her employers group private medical insurance policy. In 
March 2020, Mrs A underwent left knee replacement surgery, which I understand was paid 
for by AXA. She underwent a successful course of physiotherapy and was due to have a 
follow-up with her treating surgeon, Mr L, in June 2020. However, due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, it appears that this follow-up appointment with Mr L was cancelled.
In July 2021, Mrs A took out a personal private medical insurance policy with AXA, which 
was underwritten on a continued medical exclusions basis. During the sales call, Mrs A was 
asked whether she had any treatment, consultations, investigations or diagnostic tests 
planned or pending. Mrs A answered no. AXA accordingly set Mrs As premium based on 
her answers and applied a no claims discount level of 70%.
Subsequently, in October 2021, Mrs A consulted with Mr L and an invoice was sent to AXA 
for the appointment cost. During discussions, Mrs A told AXA that the appointment was a 
follow-up to the knee surgery shed undergone in March 2020. When questioned why she 
hadnt told AXA about this planned follow-up at the time of policy sale, she said shed 
forgotten about the appointment. She later said that shed booked the appointment with Mr 
L, as shed been experiencing symptoms.
AXA turned down Mrs As claim. It said that Mrs A hadnt correctly answered the medical 
questions shed been asked at the point of sale. It considered shed been aware that she 
was still awaiting a follow-up to her original surgery and that therefore, she ought to have 
told it that a consultation was planned or pending. So it applied a retrospective exclusion to 
her policy for all claims related to her left knee-replacement surgery and any further 
revisions.
Mrs A was unhappy with AXAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
said shed begun to experience swelling and shin pain following a walking holiday in 
September 2021. And it was at this point shed booked an appointment with Mr L.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs As complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
that at the time of taking out the personal policy, Mrs A had had any consultations planned or 
pending. So she thought Mrs A had accurately answered AXAs questions. She 
recommended that AXA should remove the exclusion, reassess the claim and pay Mrs A 
£150 compensation.
AXA disagreed and Ive summarised its response to our investigator:
It felt the information Mrs A had given it at the time of the claim was likely to be the 
most accurate, so it considered more weight should be placed on what Mrs A had 
told it at the time. Mrs A had repeatedly told AXA that this was a follow-up 
appointment following her earlier surgery, which had been delayed due to Covid-19. 
Mrs A had told AXA that shed forgotten about the appointment. It said thered been 
no mention of any new symptoms until Mrs A brought her complaint to us. 
AXA told us that Mrs A had checked specifically whether Mr L would be covered 
under her new policy  which indicated an awareness that shed need to see him 
again. 
It said that at the point of sale, it had made it clear that Mrs A needed to answer 
medical questions accurately. 
It felt Mr Ls evidence suggested that the October 2021 appointment had been a 
routine appointment, rather than an appointment to discuss new symptoms. 
It remarked on Mrs As comments about public commitments AXA had made during 
the pandemic  and so it concluded that Mrs A had linked the 2021 appointment to 
her previous surgery. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AXA has treated Mrs A fairly and Ill explain why.
First, I must make it clear that this decision will only consider whether it was fair for AXA to 
decline Mrs As claim and apply an exclusion to the contract. I appreciate Mrs A raised 
further concerns in response to the investigators view  but these are new complaint points, 
which AXA didnt have an opportunity to address in its final response of February 2022, to 
Mrs As original complaint. I understand from AXA that a new complaint has been set-up in 
response to the new concerns Mrs A has raised, which will be the subject of a new final 
response letter. Mrs A also separately made another complaint about AXA to our service, 
which was resolved by an investigator. 
Id also like to reassure both parties that whilst Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and their detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent 
me. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each issue theyve raised and nor 
do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
When Mrs A applied for the personal policy, she was asked for some information about her 
medical history, although the policy was underwritten on continued medical exclusions 
terms. AXA used this information to decide on what terms it was prepared to offer Mrs A 
cover  such as the price and no claims discount level.
AXA says that Mrs A didnt correctly answer a question about her existing medical history. 
This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply 
these principles to the circumstances of Mrs As claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to correctly answer an 
insurers questions and provides inaccurate information  and when the insurer can show 
that it would have offered the policy on different terms (or not at all) if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. The standard of care required is that of a reasonable 
consumer. 
When taking into account whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to 
consider how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive thought 
about what Mrs A was asked when she took out the policy by phone. Amongst other 
questions, AXA asked Mrs A the following:
Have you had treatment in hospital or consulted a specialist in the last 12 months? 
Do you have any treatment, consultations, investigations or diagnostic tests planned or 
pending?
Mrs A answered no to both questions. But AXA believes that she should have answered yes 
to the second question, as it considers she was awaiting a follow-up with Mr L at the point of 
sale. So Ive looked closely at the evidence to decide whether I think Mrs A took reasonable 
care to answer the question she was asked.
It's clear that Mrs A underwent left knee replacement surgery, which was carried out by Mr L, 
in March 2020. It seems AXA met the cost of this surgery under a claim Mrs A had made on 
her employers policy. This surgery took place around 15 months before the new policy was 
incepted. Its also common ground that while Mrs A was scheduled to have a follow-up with 
Mr L in June 2020, this didnt happen due to the pandemic. On that basis, I think Mrs A 
answered the first question Ive listed above accurately.
In my view, whether Mrs A took reasonable care when answering the second of the two 
questions Ive referred to is more finely balanced. I acknowledge AXAs point that Mrs A did 
tell it, more than once, that the appointment she had with Mr L in October 2021 was a follow-
up to her initial surgery. And that shed forgotten about the appointment. Id add too that in 
some cases, I may well find that the claims evidence and testimony from the time of claim 
can be more persuasive than a subsequent version of events
But in this particular case, Ive also placed significant weight on the surrounding 
circumstances and documentary evidence from the time of sale and afterwards. While Mrs A 
had been due for a follow-up with Mr L in June 2020, all parties accept this appointment was 
cancelled. Ive simply seen no evidence that this appointment was rescheduled prior to May 
2021, when Mrs A first went through the quote process, or had been rescheduled by July 
2021, at the time she took out the policy. Nor do I think Mrs A ought reasonably to have 
been aware that her previous surgery needed to be signed-off by Mr L  especially given the 
delay between surgery and her eventual appointment. 
As Ive mentioned, policy inception took place around 15 months after the surgery had been 
carried out and over a year after the original follow-up had been cancelled. So I dont think 
Mrs A could or should reasonably have been aware, in July 2021, that she still, technically, 
required a follow-up with Mr L and that this was something shed need to tell AXA about in 
response to the second question it asked. I think its entirely reasonable to conclude, on 
balance, that Mrs A may simply have forgotten such an appointment could be required at an 
indeterminate point in the future. Or that shed understand that she needed to answer AXAs 
question here in the affirmative. I appreciate she asked specifically whether Mr L would be 
covered under the new policy. But I dont find this prejudicial to her position. It seems entirely 
likely that Mrs A wanted to ensure that if she did need future orthopaedic treatment, Mr L 
would be an eligible specialist under the policy, given their previous medical relationship and 
operative success. 
Ive also borne in mind the documentary evidence Mrs A has provided. She says that she noticed pain following a holiday in September 2021. Shes provided evidence of that holiday. 
And shes also sent us a copy of her appointment booking with Mr L  which is dated 28 
September 2021. Im satisfied that this corroborates Mrs As version of events and 
explanation as to why an appointment was arranged at this point. I accept that Mr Ls clinic 
letter does effectively sign Mrs A off from his care, which suggests that a surgical follow-up 
took place during the October 2021 appointment. And he made specific reference to the 
impact of the pandemic on her follow-up and rehabilitation. But critically, the letter says:
The issue she has is some pain in the shin following a walk like this with occasional 
swelling.
Its possible, of course, that the appointment was booked in September 2021, exclusively as 
a follow-up to the original surgery. But it seems more likely to me that Mrs A booked the 
appointment because she began to suffer from pain and swelling. And that the surgical 
follow-up which appears to have happened during the consultation was incidental to the 
main purpose of the appointment.
I do take AXAs point regarding Mrs As failure to refer to her symptoms at the point of claim. 
And as Ive said, I accept this complaint is finely balanced. But on balance, I find its more 
likely that not that, at the time of sale, Mrs A wasnt reasonably aware of a planned or 
pending consultation with Mr L. Nor have I seen enough evidence to demonstrate that a 
follow-up had always been intended to be rescheduled  especially given the long delay 
between the surgery and the appointment. Overall, I am persuaded its more likely that Mrs 
A booked the appointment in September 2021, in response to her new symptoms.
On that basis then, and based on the specific circumstances of this individual complaint, I 
find that Mrs A answered AXAs questions accurately and to the best of her knowledge and 
belief. Accordingly, I think Mrs A did take reasonable care to answer the second question 
she was asked by AXA. This means that I dont think there was any qualifying 
misrepresentation by Mrs A at the time of policy sale. And so it follows that Im not 
persuaded that AXA is reasonably entitled to apply the legal remedy set out in CIDRA to the 
circumstances of Mrs As claim. 
For clarity, I dont find that AXA is entitled to re-underwrite the policy or apply the 
retrospective exclusion for left knee replacement surgery or revision. In my view, the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint would be for AXA to remove this exclusion from Mrs 
As policy and to reconsider the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
contract. I should make it clear that Im not directing AXA to pay this claim  it will be for AXA 
to reassess the claim without reference to the exclusion and to consider whether its 
otherwise covered by the policy terms and conditions.
I also agree with our investigator that AXA should pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused Mrs A in the handling of her claim. Its put her to some time and 
trouble in attempting to resolve the matter and I dont doubt it caused her unnecessary, 
additional upset. I find that an award of £150 compensation is fair to reflect the material 
distress and inconvenience I think Mrs A has likely been caused by AXA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to:
Remove the exclusion for investigations or treatment related to Mrs As left knee 
replacement and any revisions;Reassess her claim in line with the policy terms and conditions (taking into account 
any applicable policy excess) and;
Pay Mrs A £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman