DRN-3091240
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under the mobile phone insurance policy 
provided by Assurant General Insurance Limited. 
What happened
The insurance policy is provided as part of a package of benefits by Mr Rs bank, which Mr R 
took out in October 2020. On 3 November 2020, Mr R made a claim under the policy as his 
phone was accidentally damaged when it was run over by a car.
Assurant initially refused the claim because the receipt Mr R provided to prove his ownership 
of the damaged phone, contained several spelling mistakes. However, this was later clarified 
and Assurant accepted the proof of purchase and agreed to proceed with the claim.  
Assurant says that Mr R told it that he had never put a SIM card in the phone and it was only 
used to access an app he uses for work, using a hotspot from another device. Assurant then 
refused the claim on the basis that it cannot establish the phone was in full working order 
before the claim was made. It says the phone was purchased around five months before the 
policy was taken out and it cant be established that it was ever in full working order, if a SIM 
card was never put in to it and it was used.  
Assurant relies on the following term in the policy:
To be covered under this insurance policy your device must be in full working order, with 
any SIM enabled devices able to connect to the network. You cannot make a claim on a 
device which has already been damaged, lost or stolen prior to you adding Tech Pack to 
your qualifying account.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied Assurant had acted in line with the policy terms. 
Mr R doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To successfully claim under an insurance policy, it is for a claimant to establish their claim. 
This means in the context of this case that Mr R has to prove that he owned and possessed 
the phone for which he is claiming, and that he suffered a loss covered by the policy. This is 
a matter of general insurance law but is also reinforced by the terms of the policy. 
The policy term relied on by Assurant to refuse this claim (set out above) provides that if the 
phone is not in full working order before the policy is taken out, it will not be covered by the 
policy. I dont think this is unfair. 
Assurant is satisfied Mr R owned and possessed the phone claimed for. Mr R has also 
provided a letter from the manager of the store he bought the phone from, which says he 
sold it in full working order to Mr R on 25 May 2020. However, this is more than five months 
before the policy was taken out. In order to help verify the claim, Assurant says it needs 
some independent evidence that the phone was not already damaged; proof of usage of the 
phone with a SIM card would normally be sufficient. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R has said. He says he only ever used this device to 
access an app he needed for work, using his main phone as a hotspot. I have no reason to 
doubt what he has said but it means there is no substantiating evidence that the phone was 
in full working order prior to the policy being taken out. Having considered everything, I am 
not therefore persuaded that Mr R has done enough to establish he has a valid claim under 
the policy. I do not therefore consider I can reasonably ask Assurant to meet the claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman