DRN-1063638
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that RAC Financial Services Ltd (RAC) promised him three extra months 
cover on his breakdown policy for free but failed to provide it.
What happened
Mr J has a motor breakdown policy through RAC. In May 2018, he spoke to RAC when the 
policy was due to renew and let it know he hadn't been happy with the service he'd received 
and so he didn't want to renew the cover.
Because of this, RAC's representative offered to renew the cover at the same price as the 
previous year and to give Mr J three extra month's cover for free. Mr J accepted this offer 
and renewed the policy.
Approximately twelve months later, RAC got in contact with Mr J to discuss the renewal of 
the policy again. He complained that he should still have another three months before the 
policy was due to renew. 
RAC apologised to Mr J and explained that its representative shouldn't have offered him the 
free cover extension as this wasn't something it was able to do. As a gesture of goodwill it 
agreed to refund Mr J the cost of three months' cover. Mr J wasn't happy with this and 
brought his complaint to this service.
He said RAC's offer wasn't fair because RAC has breached its agreement with him and it 
meant he had to seek out alternative cover when he found the extra three months weren't 
available after all. He says he should be refunded the whole year's premium.
Our investigator considered the evidence and concluded that RAC had misled Mr J and 
decided it should pay him an additional  £50 to apologise for its error on top of what it had 
already offered him. Mr J remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I've reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for similar 
reasons. I realise Mr J will be disappointed, so I'll explain my reasoning.
In this case, there's no dispute that RAC provided Mr J with incorrect information. It's 
accepted that it's agent told Mr J he could have fifteen months cover for the price of twelve 
and this option wasn't available. And it's refunded three months' premiums to apologise for 
misleading him.
Mr J was already dissatisfied with the service RAC had provided the previous year and says 
he only renewed the policy because of the incentive of extended cover. So I understand his frustration when he found out RAC wasn't able to provide this after all. He says RAC should 
refund him the whole annual premium.
When considering this, I must bear in mind though that Mr J still received the benefit of the 
cover for twelve months and would have been able to claim on it during this time if he had 
he needed to. I'm therefore not satisfied it would be fair or reasonable to instruct RAC to 
refund the whole premium. But I do think it should recognise its error and the impact it had 
on Mr J.
Mr J hasn't told us that RAC's actions caused him any financial loss, but he has said that he 
experienced inconvenience when he had to take out alternative cover after twelve months 
rather than fifteen. 
He's said RAC had doubled its premium since the previous year, and so I think it's more 
likely than not that Mr J would have decided to seek alternative cover anyway when the 
policy was due for renewal. So I accept he may have experienced some inconvenience in 
having to look for this sooner than expected but I'm not persuaded by the evidence he's 
supplied that this would have been significantly more inconvenient after twelve months than 
it would have been after fifteen. But I do think RAC should recognise the inconvenience of 
Mr J having to seek alternative cover at short notice.
Putting things right
RAC has already apologised to Mr J and offered to pay him £30.34 which is the equivalent of 
three months' worth of premiums. For the reasons I've explained above I think RAC should 
pay Mr J an additional £50 to apologise for the impact of its error.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct RAC Financial Services Limited 
to pay Mr J 
The £30.34 it offered in its final response, if this hasn't already been paid to him.
An additional £50.00
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2020
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman