DRN-4466246
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Cavendish Online Limited didnt give him relevant information  
including about the premium  when selling him an income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When selling insurance policies, Cavendish has certain regulatory obligations. In advised 
sales, it should ensure that the policy is suitable for its customers needs. And whether the 
sale is advised or not, Cavendish still has to provide its customers with clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the main terms of the policy. 
I know Mr J will be disappointed but for the reasons set out below, I dont uphold his 
complaint. 
Around 16 February 2022 the insurance provider for the policy (who Ill refer to as C) 
sent directly to Mr J the terms on which it would offer him the policy. That included 
policy exclusions. C notified Cavendish that the offer had been sent but due to the 
sensitive nature of the exclusions, it was told that the terms had been sent directly to 
Mr J.
Im satisfied the offer set out the monthly premium for the policy, which included a 5% 
discount for a mental health exclusion.  
From Cavendishs contact notes, Im satisfied that it promptly contacted Mr J to 
discuss the offer and the exclusions. And that Mr J said hed consider the offer and 
get back to Cavendishs representative. 
C notified Cavendish in June 2022 that the Mr Js application for the policy was out of 
date and was being filed as not proceeding. From reading the correspondence 
between Cavendish and C up to and including June 2022, Im persuaded on the 
balance of probabilities that C had told Cavendish that the offer was open for 
acceptance for six months  until August 2022, and not four months. So, whilst I 
accept that Mr J wouldve thought he had longer to accept the offer of the policy than 
he did, I dont think I can reasonably hold Cavendish responsible for this. 
And when Cavendish (Im satisfied, promptly) informed C of its mistake, C agreed to 
extend acceptance of the offer until the end of June 2022. Mr J accepted the terms of 
the offer before that deadline. So, he didnt miss out on the offer.  
Mr J had a level premium which means the policy was priced based on his age at 
entry to the policy. The premium then remains the same throughout the insurance 
contract. The offer of the policy was made around a week before Mr Js next birthday. 
As a result, the monthly premium increased by several pounds when he was a year 
older. 
I can understand why Mr J was upset at finding this out only shortly before he 
accepted the policy terms. However, even if I was persuaded that Cavendish ought 
to have told Mr J about this when he received Cs offer in February 2022, there was 
only around a week for Mr J to have accepted the offer before his next birthday.  
I dont know for sure what Mr J wouldve done had he known that the premium was 
likely to increase a week after the offer. However, on the balance of probabilities, Im 
not persuaded that he wouldve gone ahead and accepted the offer within such a 
short timeframe. 
Thats because from communications around the time, Im satisfied he wanted to 
consider the policy documents and exclusions. And in May 2022, before the offer 
was due to expire, Cavendish contacted Mr J to ask whether he was still thinking 
about the offer. Mr J replied that he was and if the policy wasnt so expensive, he 
wouldve made a decision by now. He asks if Cavendish comes across anything 
else to let him know. So, on the balance of probabilities, I dont think Mr J wouldve 
been in a rush to accept the offer before his birthday in February 2022, even if he 
was made aware that the premium was likely to be several pounds more once his 
age increased. 
Im therefore satisfied that any error on behalf of Cavendish didnt have any impact of 
Mr J as its most likely he wouldve always had to pay the premium he ended up 
paying because it increased from the amount set out in the Cs offer on his birthday 
in February 2022.
Mr J is also unhappy that Cavendish didnt provide a substantive respond to his complaint. A 
financial business has eight weeks to respond to a complaint, failing which an eligible 
complainant can refer the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Thats what Mr J 
did here when he didnt receive a substantive response. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman