DRN-4225242
The complaint
Mr M complains about a re-mortgage application he made through Hey Habito Ltd. He says 
that due to errors and omissions on Habitos part, he lost out on a low interest rate and will 
pay more over the next five years. He says the matter has caused him significant worry and 
stress and has impacted his health.
What happened
Mr M has a repayment mortgage with a lender I will refer to as (L). Habito had helped him 
secure a fixed rate product at 1.84% with L, which was due to end on 30 June 2022. In late 
2021, Habito contacted Mr M to remind him that his product would shortly be coming to an 
end, and Mr M asked Habito to find him a new product. 
In March 2022, Habito recommended a five-year fixed rate product at 1.99% with L and 
shortly after a mortgage offer was issued. This provided a start date of 1 June 2022 and an 
offer expiry date of 26 June 2022. The cover letter explained that Mr M didnt need to sign or 
return the offer, but he would be required to contact his broker to accept the deal. Mr M 
confirmed his acceptance to Habito, and he believed the new product had been agreed.
However, L had required further information due to the offer expiring before the end of       
Mr Ms existing product. No response was provided to L and the offer expired on 26 June 
2022. Mr Ms mortgage reverted to Ls Standard Variable Rate (SVR) on 1 July 2022.
On 8 July 2022, Mr M realised something had gone wrong and he contacted Habito, and it 
became clear the offer had expired. On the same day, Habito recommended a new product. 
This was a five-year fixed rate product at 2.99%. Mr M says he decided against proceeding 
at that time because he was concerned about the financial implications of being tied into a 
higher rate and the impact this might have on the complaint hed registered with Habito.
On 28 July 2022, Habito recommended a five-year fixed rate product at 3.24% and             
Mr M accepted this.
Habito issued its final response letter in August 2022. In summary, it accepted that it had 
made errors that had caused Mr M financial detriment. But it felt Mr M was partially 
responsible for not spotting the errors with the relevant dates and it felt he could have 
mitigated this loss by accepting its recommendation for a fixed rate product at 2.99% on       
8 July 2022. It made an offer to settle to complaint as follows:
- To pay 50% of the difference in the interest charged between the 1.99% rate product 
that had expired and the 2.99% rate product that it had recommended on 8 July 
2022.
- To pay 50% of the difference in interest charged between Ls SVR and Mr Ms 
existing interest rate for the month of August 2022.
It said Mr M would have needed to end his existing product early to secure the 1.99% fixed 
rate product before it expired and an Early Repayment Charge of £202 would have been 
applicable  so this should be deducted from the settlement amount.
Unhappy with Habitos response, Mr M referred his complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In summary, she said:
- Habito was entirely responsible for errors that had occurred, so it should pay the total 
amount of redress to be calculated. 
- The ERC shouldnt be deducted.
- Habito should pay 8% interest on the extra Mr M has paid on his monthly payments.
She also felt Habitos offer to pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience the matter 
had caused was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Habito agreed to pay the full amount of the settlement and also to pay 8% interest on the 
extra Mr M had paid on his monthly payments, but it maintained its view that the ERC should 
be deducted from the amount payable to Mr M.
The Investigator felt Habitos approach was fair, and she put Habitos revised offer of 
settlement to Mr M.
Mr M didnt agree with the amount of interest calculated. He felt Habito had carried out the 
calculations incorrectly and hadnt taken into account interest that was being accumulated on 
top of his mortgage.
As agreement hadnt been reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued 
a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to comment before I finalise my 
decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I explained that Id considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id reached a similar conclusion to the Investigator. This is that Habito is 
responsible for the errors and omissions that have caused financial detriment to Mr M and 
Habito needs to make a financial settlement to put things right. However, my view differs on 
some of the detail about the parameters for the settlement. 
Habito has accepted that it is responsible for the errors and omissions that have caused 
financial detriment to Mr M, and it has made an offer to put things right. So, the issue for me 
to decide here is whether this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.I explained that as a starting point, where a customer has lost out financially, we would look 
to put them back in the position they would have been in as far as possible, if the business 
hadnt got things wrong.
Here, Habito should have ascertained the correct end date of Mr Ms existing mortgage 
product and found a suitable product that would have been valid to start on 1 July 2022. Or, 
if it was Mr Ms preference to proceed with the 1.99% fixed rate product, it should have 
arranged for his existing mortgage to end early, and at the latest possible point before the 
offer expired on 26 June 2022 because Mr Ms existing rate was slightly less.
Habito has told this Service that a five-year fixed rate product of 2.09% would have been 
available to start from I July 2022. However, given the urgency and importance of securing a 
competitive rate that Mr M had conveyed in his emails to Habito, on balance, I thought Mr M 
would have chosen to proceed with the 1.99% rate  especially because the amount of the 
ERC payable (£202) is likely to be less than Mr M would have paid over five years at a 
higher rate. Because the payment of the ERC would have been necessary to secure the new 
rate, I agreed that this should be deducted from the settlement. 
Habito has argued that Mr M ought to have accepted a new fixed rate at 2.99% when this 
was offered to him on 8 July 2022, and the settlement should be based on him obtaining this 
rate  rather than the higher rate of 3.24% he accepted on 28 July 2022. However, I didnt 
agree this is fair in the circumstances and I explained why. 
Mr M says he only became aware that things had gone wrong on 8 July 2022, when he 
received a letter from L saying his mortgage had reverted to its SVR and his payments had 
increased. Habito provided its recommendation for the 2.99% fixed rate product that same 
day. Mr M says he didnt agree to this at that time because he was concerned about being 
tied into a product that he didnt think he could afford. He was also worried that this would 
negatively impact the complaint hed made to Habito.
I hadnt seen any evidence to show Habito had addressed Mr Ms concerns about his 
complaint being impacted or explain the urgency in him accepting a new product in order to 
mitigate his loss until 28 July 2022, and Mr M agreed to accept the rate available on that day 
which had increased to 3.24%.
I didnt think Mr Ms reasons for not agreeing to a product sooner, or the amount of time he 
waited - approximately 20 days, were unreasonable in the circumstances. I noted that this 
was clearly a difficult and stressful time for Mr M, and I wasnt satisfied Habito had 
adequately addressed his concerns until 28 July 2022. Considering this, I felt the settlement 
should be based on the actual fixed rate of 3.24% that Mr M agreed to on 28 July 2022.
A further consideration was that, had the product transfer gone through as intended, the 
fixed rate of 1.99% would have run until 31 July 2027. As I cant know what will happen to 
rates after that date, 31 July 2027 is the end date for calculating redress.
I also considered the question of interest on the interest reimbursements. Each time Mr M 
has paid more each month than he needed to, hes been unfairly deprived of the extra 
amount. That would, ordinarily, entitle him to interest on each overpayment, from the time it 
was paid, up to the time it is reimbursed. The relevant rate is 8% simple per annum.However, thats not the case for the extra interest payments Mr M hasnt yet made but will 
make between the date of settlement and 31 July 2027. For those, Mr M is going to receive 
redress before the loss has been incurred, so no interest is due. Theres also a theoretical 
financial benefit to him receiving the redress before the loss has occurred. So, in the interest 
of fairness and simplicity, I was minded to conclude that the two should cancel each other 
out, and that I should not include an award of interest.
Id also thought very carefully about the impact the matter has had on Mr M. I noted that Mr 
M making unnecessarily high monthly payments and trying to resolve the matter has caused 
him a lot of worry and stress. I also mentioned that hed provided evidence to show the 
ongoing matter has impacted his health. Habito has offered to pay Mr M £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused, and I felt this is fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
To settle this complaint, I explained that I was minded to require Habito to calculate redress 
as follows:
From 1 July 2022 to 28 July 2022, calculate the difference in interest charged 
between Ls SVR and 1.99%.
From 28 July 2022 to 31 July 2027, calculate the difference in interest charged each 
month between 3.24% and 1.99%
Calculate the ERC that would have been applicable for Mr M ending his existing 
product early and deduct this from the settlement.
I said that the remaining balance calculated should be paid to Mr M.
I explained that Habito doesnt need to calculate and present the redress figure in response 
to my provisional decision. Habito and Mr M were being asked to agree to the principal of the 
settlement. 
I also said that Habito should make a separate award of £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M responded to my provisional decision, and Ive summarised his key points below: 
He feels he should be paid interest on the reimbursement of the overpayments hes 
made. He says that, as a result of paying a higher amount, he has defaulted on other 
debts which has impacted his credit file. 
Mr M doesnt agree he would have paid an ERC had Habito not got things wrong, so 
he doesnt think this should be deducted.    
Habito has also responded to my provisional decision. In summary, it said it believes the rate 
of 2.99% should be used as the basis for redress. It said it had encouraged Mr M to proceed 
with this product while his complaint was being investigated, and it feels it made every effort 
to mitigate the financial loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments about wanting interest on the reimbursement of the 
overpayments hes made. However, it remains my view that his receipt of the of the extra 
interest payments not yet made provides a theoretical benefit to him, and I remain satisfied 
that a fair approach here is for the two to cancel each other out. So, I wont be requiring 
Habito to award interest on the overpayments Mr M has made.
Mr M has explained that hes defaulted on other debts as a result of making higher 
payments, but he hasnt provided this Service with evidence to show that any defaults, or 
any negative impact on his credit file, has directly resulted from this matter. As a result, Im 
unable to take this into account when deciding what Habito needs to do to put things right. 
Ive also taken into account Mr Ms view that the ERC shouldnt be deducted. However, for 
the reasons that Ive explained in my provisional decision, it remains my view that Mr M 
would have needed to pay an ERC to secure the lower rate of 1.99%, and the amount 
applicable should be deducted when calculating the settlement.
Ive also taken into consideration what Habito has said in response to my provisional 
decision. However, for the reasons that I set out in my provisional decision, it remains my 
view that Mr Ms reasons for not agreeing to a product sooner, or the amount of time he 
waited before securing a new product, were not unreasonable in the circumstances.
After reviewing everything, I see no reason to depart from my findings in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
I require Hey Habito Ltd to calculate redress as follows:
From 1 July 2022 to 28 July 2022, calculate the difference in interest charged 
between Ls SVR and 1.99%.
From 28 July 2022 to 31 July 2027, calculate the difference in interest charged each 
month between 3.24% and 1.99%
Calculate the ERC that would have been applicable for Mr M ending his existing 
product early and deduct this from the settlement.
The remaining balance calculated should be paid to Mr M.
I also require Hey Habito Ltd to make a separate award of £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require Hey Habito Ltd to calculate 
redress as Ive set out above. I also require Hey Habito Ltd to make a separate award of 
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman