DRN-3317179
The complaint
Miss M complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In around January 2020, Miss M applied to MBNA for a credit card account. MBNA accepted 
her application and an account was opened for her with a credit limit of £5,600. In 2021, 
Miss M complained to MBNA. She said that, if it had done a thorough affordability check at 
the time of her application, it would have seen that her disposable income wasnt enough to 
support further borrowing. She said she was already struggling financially at the time and 
that being given such a large credit limit caused her further financial difficulty. She said she 
was in a cycle of borrowing to pay debts and had to go without priority needs in order to 
keep up repayments. 
She said that MBNA would have seen this if it had completed enough checks. She said it 
had been irresponsible in lending to her and asked it to write off the outstanding balance on 
her account and ensure there was no negative impact on her credit file.
MBNA didnt uphold the complaint. It said that, at the time of Miss Ms application, it 
considered the credit limit of £5,600 to be appropriate based on the information supplied by 
Miss M and data it obtained from the credit reference agencies.
Our Investigator didnt think MBNA needed to do anything. But Miss M didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. She said that MBNAs 
calculation of her monthly disposable income was incorrect and its checks werent sufficient 
for it to decide whether it should lend to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to reach my decision, Ive considered whether MBNA carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M would be able to repay the credit in a 
sustainable way. In other words, did it make enough checks and did they show that she 
would be able to repay the credit without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other 
commitments and without having to borrow further? There arent set checks which MBNA 
had to make. But Id expect it to have carried out checks which were proportionate to things 
like the amount of credit being sought, the amount of the monthly payments and the 
information supplied by Miss M.
MBNA says that Miss Ms application was approved based on the information provided by 
her and data obtained from the credit reference agencies. Im satisfied it obtained and 
analysed this information.
MBNA says that no adverse information was revealed by these checks at the time of Miss 
Ms application. Im satisfied that was the case.
Miss M has queried why no data is shown for her expenditure and existing commitments in 
documents she has obtained from MBNA. Ive asked MBNA about this and it cant explain 
why this information isnt noted on that system. But Im satisfied that MBNA did have data for 
these fields and took account of it when assessing her application.
Based on the information it obtained, I think MBNA made a fair lending decision at the time. I 
havent seen anything which I think suggests it ought to have made further checks or turned 
down Miss Ms application.
Miss M says that she recently completed a full income and expenditure assessment with 
MBNA which showed her to have no disposable income but a deficit. She has queried how 
MBNA calculated her disposable income at the time of her application and says it wasnt 
correct and wasnt possible given her circumstances. 
MBNA says it calculated Miss Ms net income (by applying the known tax and National 
Insurance contributions) and then worked out her disposable income using an affordability 
calculation. It has explained that this involved subtracting housing costs (which Miss Ms 
application showed as zero), unsecured credit commitments, essential living costs and other 
major commitments. It says it also applied a buffer based on Miss Ms profile. It says that this 
produced the disposable income figure. I think that was a reasonable approach. And I think 
the lending decision it made was reasonable based on this calculation.
I realise that Miss Ms financial position may have changed since she opened the account. 
But MBNA made its decision to lend on the information which was available at the time of 
the application. I dont think the overall picture at the time suggested that having the credit 
would make her financial situation worse. So I dont think it was irresponsible of MBNA to 
give Miss M the credit. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M, but I dont think MBNA acted unfairly here so Im not going to 
ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman