DRN-2653976
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She is represented by a 
third party.
What happened
Morses records have given us the details of the approved loans and this loan table 
summarises them briefly. Loan 4 was passed over to an external debt collector.
Loan Date Principal Repayments (weekly) Settled
1 09.03.17 £100 £150 (20 x £7.50) 13.06.17
2 13.06.17 £200 £330 (33 x £10) 28.11.17
3 28.11.17 £400 £660 (33 x £20) 06.12.18
4 06.12.18 £400 £660 (33 x £20) 13.12.19 with debt collector £475
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Ls complaint and thought that Morses should put 
things right for her in relation to Loan 4. 
Morses agreed and said that Mrs L currently has an outstanding balance of £475 and 
hasnt made any repayments towards the interest balance. We will therefore remove the 
interest balance of £260 and leave the capital balance owing to [third party debt collector] of 
£215.00,  
Morses went on to suggest that if Mrs L wishes to repay the outstanding balance in 
instalments that she contacts the third party debt collector to arrange that.
Mrs L, through her representative, said that she did not agree and said that she wants the 
offer to paid to me and my loan written off that's what I would accept.
The complaint remains unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could include several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But 
certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
Mrs L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs L could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information 
provided in this context and what this all means for Mrs Ls complaint. 
Our adjudicators letter of opinion said that she did not think that Morses had done anything 
wrong for loans 1 to 3. Mrs L has not disagreed with that. But for the avoidance of doubt, I 
think its appropriate that in relation to loans 1 - 3, Morses relied on the information Mrs L 
gave it which suggested she could afford the repayments. I dont think there was any need at 
this early stage of her borrowing for Morses to have verified the information given to them. 
The checks it carried out were proportionate. 
In relation to Loan 4, Morses has agreed with our adjudicators view and has explained the 
current status of the loan. I set that out in the what happened section of this decision at the 
beginning. So as this loan is undisputed, I have no need to address the details and merits of 
the complaint relating to it. Morses has agreed to uphold the loan 4 part of Mrs Ls complaint. 
Mrs L seems to be unclear about the semantics of how this successful part of her complaint 
plays out when there is an outstanding balance. Mrs L is represented by a professional 
claims management company and I think it could have explained this to her.
I have seen the repayment records for that last loan which may be out of date. Using the 
records I have available to me, Mrs L has repaid £185 of the £400 loan. 
Mrs L has indicated that shed only accept that her balance is written off. I do not agree. Mrs L has had the benefit of that £400 principal sum lent to her and so its right that she 
repays that sum to Morses. Having already repaid some of it then its fair and reasonable for 
Morses to expect to receive the balance, currently calculated as £215. That balance may 
have altered if she has been making payments to the third party in the meantime. 
Because our adjudicator upheld Mrs Ls complaint about loan 4 then Morses has agreed to 
remove all unpaid  usually chargeable  interest, leaving Mrs L to repay just the principal 
sum balance. And as I have said earlier, thats correct and I agree with it.
Mrs L cannot expect to receive a refund of amounts she has not paid. So, the unpaid interest 
has been removed from the account for loan 4 and effectively means that Mrs L has had the 
£400 of loan 4 interest free. 
Morses has explained that the outstanding sum is with a third party debt collector. It is a little 
unclear whether the third party owns the debt or Morses has delegated the collection of the 
outstanding part to it. This uncertainty is reflected in the redress putting things right section 
below: some paragraphs may not apply to Mrs L but have been included to cover the 
situation where a third party owns the debt.  
Morses has said it will update that third party debt collector to know what to collect from 
Mrs L. 
If Mrs L is going to struggle to repay the amount left to repay then I remind Morses to instruct 
that third party to treat Mrs L in a positive and sympathetic manner if she approaches it 
about that debt. 
The complaint is upheld in part (loan 4).
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs L from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs L may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs L in a 
compliant way at this time.Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have approved loan 4 for Mrs L. 
If it has sold the outstanding debt Morses should buy it back if its able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debt back  or if the debt is still 
owned by Morses but the agent is the debt collection agent -  then it should liaise with the 
new debt owner/collection agent to achieve the results outlined below. 
As I have said earlier, some of these paragraphs may not apply to Mrs Ls situation but have 
been included to cover eventualities.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs L towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Morses has already refunded. 
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs L  
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs L as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mrs L having made overpayments then Morses should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mrs L. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with her. 
Morses shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already 
written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mrs Ls borrowing for loan 4 means any information recorded about it 
is adverse, so Morses should remove it entirely from Mrs L s credit file. 
Morses does not have to remove loan 4 from Mrs L s credit file until it has been repaid, but 
Morses should still remove any adverse information recorded about it. 
*HMRC requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs L asks Morses for a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, Morses should provide this.
If Morses intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mrs L owes, it must do this after 
tax. 
Morses cannot carry out a set-off unless it owns the debt. My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs Ls complaint is upheld in part and Morses Club PLC should do 
as I have outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman