DRN-3237798
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned down their 
business interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held a commercial insurance policy with Allianz. They claimed on their policy 
after their business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. 
Allianz turned down Mr and Mrs Ws claim. It said that while the policy provides cover for a 
specified list of illnesses, Covid-19 isnt on the list. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to our service. They 
provided a detailed submission setting out why they thought the policy should provide cover. 
In summary Mr and Mrs W said:
They had a reasonable expectation that the policy would provide cover as the 
literature makes it clear that its intended to provide a comprehensive level of cover.
The purpose of the specified illness extension is to provide cover for losses from 
notifiable diseases. 
The list of diseases referred to within this extension is based on the Governments list 
of notifiable diseases from 2009 and hasnt been updated. 
Allianzs actions in updating this list of diseases following the emergence of Covid-19 
shows that it had simply not thought about updating the list previously rather than 
making a conscious decision to only cover specific diseases.
There is no specific exclusion for pandemics. 
An exclusion has been added at renewal indicating that the policy in place at the time 
Mr and Mrs Ws business was impacted provided cover. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as 
he didnt think the policy provided cover for their claim. 
Mr and Mrs W provided a detailed response setting out why they disagreed with our 
investigators findings and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have made a number of detailed points. In deciding this complaint Ive
focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every
point in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs W. Rather it reflects the
informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr and Mrs Ws business. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr and Mrs Ws claim. I have considered the policy in full but will focus my 
decision on the extension for specified illness. 
Specified illness
The extension for specified illness says it cover loss as a direct result of any occurrence of a 
specified illness either at Mr and Mrs Ws premises or within a 25 mile radius of it. The policy 
says:
Specified Illness shall mean illness sustained by any person resulting from:
a food or drink poisoning, or
b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal 
Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, 
Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral 
Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever an outbreak of which the competent 
local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
Mr and Mrs W said that the list above is based on the Governments list of notifiable 
diseases from 2009. I understand they feel that, rather than carefully deciding which 
illnesses it wanted to cover, Allianz didnt think to update the list, meaning that the policy was 
intended to cover all notifiable diseases. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of illnesses. However, I dont think there is anything within this 
extension which either covers Covid-19 or implies that it was Allianzs intention to cover all 
notifiable diseases.
I say this because there were similar policies on the market that provided cover in the 
circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which covered all notifiable diseases as set out 
and updated on the Government-defined list. Mr and Mrs Ws policy doesnt refer to 
notifiable diseases, instead it sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. 
I think its clear from the wording of the policy that it is intended to cover a closed list of 
illnesses and there is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide 
cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So I dont think the policy can fairly be read 
as covering all and any new diseases. 
Mr and Mrs W have referred to there not being an exclusion for pandemics. I dont think that 
matters because the policy is clear that it only covers a specific list of illnesses. I also dont 
think that by updating the list of illnesses in a subsequent policy or by adding a specific 
exclusion at renewal means that the policy was unclear or provided cover. 
Expectation of being covered
While Mr and Mrs W might have had an expectation of being covered due to having a 
comprehensive policy, whether their claim was covered or not would still depend on the terms and conditions of their policy. I recognise that Mr and Mrs W have been longstanding 
customers of Allianz, but I dont find it unusual for a policy of this type to not cover business 
interruption for every eventuality. If Mr and Mrs W are unhappy about the sale of the policy 
they would need to raise that separately.  
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs W were hoping for but, having considered 
the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman