DRN-2971029
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the amount of money theyve been offered by Lloyds Bank
General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) to settle a claim they made on their home insurance.
What happened
 Lloyds agreed to meet a claim Mr and Mrs L made for damaged carpets. It sent a supplier to 
look at the carpets but they couldnt be cleaned, so Lloyds agreed to replace them.
Lloyds offer included the cost of a new carpet only.
Mr and Mrs L didnt like the supplier Lloyds used, and sent in some quotes of their own. The 
quotes included new underlay, the cost of moving and replacing furniture and the cost of 
uplifting the old carpet and disposing of it.
Mr and Mrs L eventually accepted that the cost of replacing the underlay wouldnt be 
covered as it hadnt been damaged  but they didnt think it fair they should have to pay for 
the fitting and removal of the old carpet.
Lloyds wouldnt increase its offer  although it did pay Mr and Mrs L £75 for some slight 
delays it had been responsible for.
When Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to us, our investigator thought Lloyds had acted 
fairly and need pay no more.
I was asked to decide the complaint. I didnt think Lloyds offer went far enough  in that I 
thought Lloyds has a responsibility to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they were in before 
the claim. That was that they had a fully fitted carpet, and no old carpets awaiting disposal. 
In other words I thought the fitting was all part of the claim  and that as Mr and Mrs L had 
told Lloyds they couldnt move furniture, it shouldnt burden them with any additional costs 
for this.
I suggested Lloyds either increase its cash settlement offer to include the extra fitting costs, 
or replace the carpets and fit them at no extra cost to Mr and Mrs L. I said that if Lloyds 
made a cash settlement, then that could be limited to the costs it would have had rather than 
the more expensive quotes Mr and Mrs L provided.
I thought the compensation Lloyds had paid (the £75) was fair given the delays were fairly 
short. Mr and Mrs L wanted Lloyds to pay extra because theyd had to bring their complaint 
to us: I explained that was their choice, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to ask Lloyds to 
compensate them for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded and accepted my provisional findings. So theres no reason for 
me to change my conclusions. 
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs L say they want a cash settlement. So Lloyds should now pay Mr and Mrs L the 
costs of replacing the carpet, the cost of removing and replacing furniture where necessary 
and the cost of uplifting and disposing of the old carpet. The cash settlement need not be 
any more than it would have cost Lloyds to do the work through its preferred supplier. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to meet Mr and Mrs Ls claim as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman