DRN-1351409
complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in September 2001 and May 2002. Mr A says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold him the MPPI on 
both occasions.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr As complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr A 
disagreed, so the case has been passed to me  an ombudsman  for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold. Ill explain the reasons for my decision below.
On both occasions when selling the MPPI to Mr A, Lloyds shouldve taken reasonable steps 
to make it clear the policies were optional. It also shouldve got his agreement to take it out. 
2001 sale
Mr A says he wasnt aware the PPI was an optional product and it wasnt properly explained 
to him. He also says he was told he needed the PPI if he wanted the mortgage. It seems Mr 
A took out the mortgage and PPI in 2001 in branch. Lloyds has been able to provide some 
paperwork from the time the MPPI was arranged and this includes the MPPI application form 
that was completed. So I have considered this alongside Mr As comments. 
Looking at this form I can see that it is entirely separate to the mortgage application form. It 
contains Mr As details and the amount he is borrowing for the mortgage. Mr A also had to 
sign this form separately confirming he wanted the PPI cover. Based on what we know about 
how MPPI was sold I wouldve expected the conversations with the Lloyds adviser to reflect 
the details on this form. And if Mr A wasnt sure about the cover, I wouldve expected him to 
query it before signing and agreeing to the cover.
2002 sale
Mr A appears to have taken out further borrowing and another PPI policy in 2002. Mr A says 
he wasnt aware the policy was an optional product and it wasnt explained to him. This sale 
took place over the phone. Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording 
but given how long ago the sale took place this isnt surprising. So Ive considered Mr As 
comments alongside the paperwork Lloyds has provided. 
Looking at this paperwork I can see there is a separate application form for the PPI cover. 
This form asks Mr A about his employment arrangements and if he has any existing health 
issues. Within this form Mr A also confirms he has an existing PPI policy in place. This form 
has been completed and signed separately by Mr A. Although I dont know what was 
discussed with the Lloyds adviser I wouldve expected the sales call to follow a similar 
structure to the application form. Mr A wouldve been sent a copy of this form and I wouldve 
expected him to query anything he wasnt sure about on it before he signed it. 
So taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that Mr A gave his consent for 
the MPPI to be set up on both occasions and the policies were presented as
optional. Although I can understand why Mr A may not remember this as it was so long ago.
Ive also considered Mr As comments that he felt pressured into taking out the MPPI on both 
occasions. I can accept the adviser may have told him it was a good idea to take the policy. 
But this isnt the same as pressure. So overall, I havent seen enough to uphold the 
complaint only on what Mr A has said.
Lloyds recommended the policies to Mr A so it had to check that they were right for him. 
Mr As circumstances were broadly the same at the time of both sales and looking at them it 
seems the policies were suitable. I say this because:
Mr A was eligible for the policy on both occasions.
Based on what Mr As told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he wouldnt 
have been affected by any of the things the policies didnt cover  like known health 
issues or unusual employment arrangements. So there was nothing to stop him 
claiming the full benefit of the policies if hed needed to. Mr A says he tried to make a 
claim in 2002/2003 when he was off work due to sickness but was told he wasnt 
covered. Lloyds hasnt provided any details about attempted claims made under Mr 
As policy but Mr A can contact Lloyds directly if he wishes to make a back dated 
claim. 
Mr As told us he wouldve received some sick pay from his employer. The policies 
wouldve paid out if Mr A was off work due to accident or sickness. And they would 
have provided cover if he was made redundant. This cover wouldve paid out 
alongside any employer benefits and allowed him to use them to cover other 
everyday living expenses.
On both occasions Mr A was taking on a significant and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on his home. So the effects of not keeping up with 
the repayments couldve been serious for him. And I think having the security that his 
repayments wouldve been made if he was unable to work wouldve been important 
to him.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr A. And as both the policys 
premiums were paid monthly, they could have amended or cancelled them if they no 
longer met his needs.
As well as checking the policies was suitable for Mr A, Lloyds also shouldve given him clear
information about the them so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not to
take them out. I dont know what steps Lloyds took to do this and its possible some things 
werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information 
wouldve changed Mr As decision. I think hed still have bought the policies. I say this for the 
same reasons I think the policies were suitable for him.
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said, but these points dont change my decision 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policies were mis-sold. I know this will bedisappointing for Mr A, but I hope my decision clearly sets out my reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman