DRN-3258975
Complaint
Ms P has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Ms P bought solar panels for her home in March 2018. The purchase was funded by a 10-
year loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, this relates to the installer misleading 
Ms P into believing that the panels would be removed and re-installed during some 
renovation works which Ms P had planned following the installation of the panels, free of 
charge. Ms P is also unhappy that the solar panels have since been damaged and feels 
Shawbrook should also be liable for this. 
Background
Ms P agreed to purchase the solar panels system in March 2018, and they were 
subsequently installed later that month. Ms P says she had already planned to carry out 
renovation works on her roof and explicitly asked the installer whether it could remove the 
solar panels system to allow the works to be carried out on her roof and then be reinstalled 
once the work had been completed. Ms P says the installer agreed to this, so she agreed to 
have the solar panels system installed. 
Ms P contacted the installer once she needed the solar panel system to be removed. At this 
time the installer agreed to do this but notified her that there was a charge of £600. Ms P 
said she wasnt told that there would be an additional charge for this, but needing the panels 
to be removed, she paid the installer an additional £600. The installer removed the panels in 
January 2019 and left the solar panels in Ms Ps garden. 
In May 2019, the installer visited Ms Ps property to re-install the solar panels. But it said 
that, as the roof works hadnt been completed and the scaffolding had been adjusted, it was 
unable to re-install the solar panels.  
In October 2019, the installer visited Ms Ps property once again and noted that the solar 
panels were damaged, and the electrics had been removed  so again they were unable to 
re-install the solar panels. 
Ms Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He thought the complaint 
should be upheld in part. He felt the installer was made aware of the planned renovation 
works, and it had agreed to remove and re-install the panels  so it ought to have made it 
clear to Ms P whether there was an additional cost for this. So, he felt the £600 Ms P had 
paid should be refunded. He also felt that the time taken for Shawbrook to deal with her 
complaint was unreasonable and recommended £100 compensation for this.
However, he didnt agree that the installer (and therefore Shawbrook) was responsible for 
storing the solar panels during the renovation works and were not therefore liable for the 
damage that they suffered during this time. 
Ms P has complained she has experienced financial difficulties throughout this process, but 
our investigators felt Shawbrook had offered to suspend her payments. So, he didnt think 
Shawbrook had treated her unfairly. 
Shawbrook accepted our investigators findings and agreed to refund the £600 removal and 
reinstallation fee it charged. It also offered to pay 8% interest in top as well as the £100 
compensation for delays in complaint handling. 
Ms P did not accept our investigators view of the complaint. The solar panels system has still 
not been re-installed while she is continuing to maintain the payments under the loan 
agreement. Ms P re-iterated that Shawbrook should be held responsible for the damage 
done to the solar panels as they were the professionals so should have ensured they were 
stored properly. 
As the matter could not be resolved, it has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the investigators, I uphold this case in part and I explain why below. 
Removal and re-installation 
Ms P has consistently said that she had already planned the renovation works when she 
was sold the solar panels and has submitted plans from around the time of sale supporting 
this. So, I think its likely Ms P would have enquired whether the solar panels could be safely 
removed and re-installed during the renovations before proceeding with the sale. While the 
installer has accepted that it did discuss this during the sale, it added that it had never 
agreed to carry out the works for free. 
But as explained by our investigator, this was an essential part of the sales discussion and 
something I think Ms P would likely have been concerned about. If there was an additional 
charge for this, the installer should have made it clear to Ms P so she could make an 
informed decision whether to proceed with the purchase of the solar panels fully aware of 
the cost of doing so. 
However, Shawbrook has now agreed to refund the cost of this, including interest and I dont 
think it needs to do any more regarding this particular issue. 
Storage and damage to the solar panels 
Ive thought carefully about everything Ms P and Shawbrook have said and submitted. I 
havent seen any evidence that the installer ever agreed to store the solar panels for Ms P. 
The installer has made a note after removing the panels from Ms Ps roof that that all the kit 
had been left on site. Ive seen pictures of the panels in Ms Ps garden and they are visible  
so I think Ms P was fully aware theyd been left on her property. 
Ive considered Ms Ps view that the installers are the professionals and therefore they ought 
to have stored them correctly. But as explained above, I havent seen any evidence that 
theyd agreed to store them for her, and she was aware that theyd been left on her property. 
Any damage done to them was done on her property while they were in her care  if Ms P required assistance in storing them to prevent damage, she ought to have contacted the 
installer for further assistance.
Based on what Ive seen, it looks like the solar panels have been placed in the garden and 
the garden has since been left in a state of disarray. As the damage was done during a 
period where the installer had no control or oversight, I dont think the installer (and therefore 
Shawbrook) can be held responsible for the damage theyve suffered. 
Financial difficulties 
I understand Ms P has said shes suffering from financial difficulties and asked for her 
payments to be stopped but this has not happened. 
As explained by our investigator, I can see from Shawbrooks call records that it offered to 
suspend her payments while the investigations were ongoing, but this offer was declined. 
The note records that Ms P didnt want her credit file to be affected by any arrears accruing. 
While I appreciate Ms Ps recollection is somewhat different, I cant see any evidence of an 
error here. However, the obligation on a financial business to be supportive of consumers is 
ongoing, so if Ms P is still experiencing financial difficulties, she can contact Shawbrook to 
discuss a way forward.  
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that Ms P should not have been asked to pay for the removal and re-installation of 
the solar panels. However, I dont think the installer (and therefore Shawbrook) ever agreed 
to store the solar panels for Ms P so it isnt liable for the damage they suffered during the 
renovation work. 
My understanding is that the solar panel system has still not been re-installed while Ms P is 
making payments under the loan agreement. Ms P should contact Shawbrook to discuss her 
options and agree a way forward.
I can see Ms Ps complaint has been ongoing for some time and I agree with our 
investigators view that Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Putting things right 
I order Shawbrook to refund the £600 charge Ms P paid for the instillation and removal of the 
solar panels, plus interest at 8% from the date she paid it until the date of settlement. And as 
noted above, it should pay her £100 compensation for delays in complaint handling. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ps complaint in part. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman