DRN-3137706
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that he received incorrect information from Barclays Bank UK PLC with 
regard to how much cash he could withdraw from ATM machines on a daily basis following 
the upgrading of his bank account.
What happened
Mr Ds Barclays account was upgraded to a Premier Account, at which time he was led to 
believe that the amount of cash that he could withdraw from ATM machines on a daily basis 
had increased. However, when Mr D attempted to withdraw the larger amount of money, he 
was unable to do so. Mr D contacted Barclays about this and was given a generic response 
which caused him to suspect that Barclays held adverse information about his financial 
history. Mr D wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ds complaint. They noted that whilst Mr Ds account had been 
upgraded, it was only holders of a specific type of debit card  one which Mr D at that time 
hadnt applied to upgrade to  who were eligible for the larger daily cash withdrawal limits. 
Barclays agreed that they should have been more transparent with this information to Mr D 
and they apologised for this and offered to pay £100 compensation to Mr D for the trouble 
and upset hed incurred.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the offer of £100 
compensation that Barclays had already made to Mr D represented a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what had happened, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr D to have believed that he was 
able to withdraw a larger amount of money from an ATM, only to then find that he was 
unable to do so.
Barclays have explained that the reason for this was that Mr D, despite the overall account 
being upgraded, didnt hold the correct debit card type to be able to withdraw the larger daily 
amount. Barclays have also acknowledged that the requirement for the different type of debit 
card should have been made clearer to Mr D, both at the time of the account upgrade and 
later, when Mr D called to inquire as to why he was unable to withdraw the larger amount of 
money.
In circumstances such as this, what this service would expect would be that Barclays would 
apologise to Mr D for what has taken place and that they would offer a reasonable amount of 
compensation to Mr D in light of the inconvenience this matter has caused him.
I think that Barclays have done that here. They apologised to Mr D in their response to his 
complaint and offered £100 compensation for the trouble that hed incurred. Matters of 
compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and reasonable by 
one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But the £100 that Barclays 
have offered here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what 
this service would expect, given the circumstances.
Im aware that Mr D feels that a larger amount of compensation is warranted, based on the 
time that hes had to spend resolving this issue and the amount he charges professionally 
per hour for his time. But this service doesnt instruct compensation on the basis of 
professional rates, and this is because this service doesnt consider any one persons time to 
be any more or less valuable than any other persons time. Instead, we assess 
compensation holistically, in consideration of many different factors, and in this instance, I 
remain satisfied that Barclays offer of £100 compensation does represent a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint.
I also note that Mr D hasnt incurred any form of financial loss here. I say this because his 
access to the money in his account was never restricted, and Mr D could have withdrawn the 
amount he wanted in person in branch or have transferred the amount electronically either 
online or via telephone banking.
Im aware that Mr D is also unhappy as he felt that the generic response he received from 
Barclays when he first asked why he couldnt withdraw the larger amount suggested that 
Barclays held adverse information about him which was affecting his ability to withdraw that 
amount. But in their response to Mr Ds complaint, Barclays confirmed that this isnt the 
case, and they explained to Mr D how he could make a Subject Access Request if he 
wanted to see all of the information about him that Barclays hold. As such, Im satisfied that 
Barclays dont need to take any further action in this regard.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that Barclays have already issued to 
Mr Ds complaint, including the offer of £100 compensation, does represent a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what has happened here, and it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr d to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman