DRN-3929384
The complaint
Mrs B and Mrs B complain about how Covea Insurance plc handled their claim on their 
home insurance.
Mrs B and Mrs B are joint policy holders, and have been represented by a third party 
throughout their claim and complaint. However for ease of reading I will refer only to Mrs B. 
But all references include the actions of both of the policyholders and their representative. 
What happened
Mrs B had home insurance that was underwritten by Covea. In April 2022 she made a claim 
after an underground pipe burst in her garden causing a build up of water.
Covea initially declined the claim as it said cover for an escape of water was only provided 
where there was damage to the property itself and not just the garden. Mrs B enquired about 
accidental damage cover and Covea accepted that there could be a claim under this section 
of the policy. But it said that the damage was likely caused by wear and tear which is 
excluded. It said Mrs B would need to prove that it wasnt wear and tear by getting a cause 
of damage report. 
Mrs B subsequently instructed a contractor to fix the leak and made good the damage to the 
garden. Covea eventually accepted the claim and paid the cost of the repairs.
However Mrs B was unhappy with how the claim had been handled from the start. She said 
Covea unfairly declined her claim for two different reasons and this delayed her from 
resolving the problem. She said shed had to pay for a pump to keep the water from entering 
her house as the garden remained flooded for some time. She made a complaint but Covea 
didnt uphold it as it said its staff had followed its processes correctly. Unhappy with this Mrs 
B brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said Covea hadnt acted fairly 
by asking Mrs B to prove that an exclusion didnt apply and because of this it had caused 
Mrs B additional distress and inconvenience. She thought Covea should pay £250 
compensation and reimburse Mrs B for the cost of the pump including interest from the date 
she paid for it until the date of settlement. 
Mrs B accepted our investigators outcome however Covea didnt. It asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a claim is made, its for the insured to show that there is an insured peril  something 
that is covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the claim or prove 
that an exclusion in the policy would apply. 
Here Covea initially considered the claim as an escape of water peril. Escape of water is a 
peril usually covered by home insurance policies, however usually it applies only to 
instances where water has escaped from a part of the water system in the home itself. 
Where the leak has come from an external underground pipe, this would usually be covered 
by a different peril in the policy.
Mrs Bs policy defines an escape of water as:
Loss or damage by water as a result of a burst, frozen, leaking or overflowing fixed domestic 
drain, water or heating installation, kitchen appliance or fixed domestic water piping/pipes.
So I think its clear from this that the peril would apply to domestic pipes within the property. I 
therefore dont think Covea did the right thing by initially considering the claim under this 
peril.
Further, it wasnt until Mrs B pointed out that it may be better considered under the 
accidental damage cover that it changed its position. This meant the claim was delayed 
more than it should have been.
Additionally, when Covea agreed the claim would be better made under the accidental 
damage cover, it said it would likely be excluded due to wear and tear. If the insurer relies on 
an exclusion to decline a claim it is for it to prove this exclusion applies. Here the exclusion 
was applied without any proof. And instead Covea asked Mrs B to provide evidence to show 
that it wouldnt apply.  I dont agree this was fair in the circumstances. Mrs B had provided 
enough evidence to show that there was an insured peril, that there had been a leak from an 
underground pipe that she was responsible for. So I dont agree it was fair in the 
circumstances for Covea to ask her to prove that the exclusion wouldnt apply. 
Based on this, I agree that Covea didnt treat Mrs B fairly or reasonably when handling her 
claim. And due to the delay it caused by declining her claim for two different reasons this 
caused Mrs B additional distress and inconvenience as it took longer for her to get the leak 
fixed and for her garden to be repaired. I therefore agree with our investigator that it should 
pay Mrs B £250 compensation to make up for this.
Further, as the water remained in her garden during this time, Mrs B had to buy a pump in 
order to ensure the water didnt reach a level that would mean it would enter her property. I 
therefore agree Covea should reimburse Mrs B for the cost of the pump on receipt of proof 
of the amount. It should also pay 8% interest from the date it was purchased until the 
settlement is paid to make up for the time Mrs B has been without the money. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs B and Mrs Bs complaint and require Covea 
Insurance plc to:
Pay Mrs B and Mrs B £250 compensation.
Reimburse Mrs B and Mrs B for the pump on receipt of proof of the cost. 
Pay 8% simple interest on the cost of the pump from the date it was purchased until 
the date Covea makes payment. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman