DRN-3249737
Complaint
Ms B has complained that HSBC Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) unfairly continued 
applying charges to her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
Ms B made complaints about two accounts to us. This decision is only looking at what 
happened on her account ending in 575. One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint 
and thought First Direct should have realised that Ms Bs overdraft had become 
unsustainable for her by August 2017. First Direct didnt agree. So the complaint was passed 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
provisional decision.
Having considered everything provided, I think First Direct acted unfairly when it continued 
adding interest and associated fees and charges to Ms Bs overdraft from August 2017. By 
this point, it was evident Ms Bs overdraft had become unsustainable for her. Ms Bs 
statements leading up to this period show that she hadnt seen a credit balance for an 
extended period of time. Ms B was also struggling to manage and regularly exceeding her 
limit. This coupled with what was going on on Ms Bs other account meant that First Direct 
ought to have realised that Ms B was likely to experience significant adverse consequences. 
So I think that by August 2017 First Direct ought to have realised that Ms B was unlikely to 
be able to sustainably repay her overdraft. And, in these circumstances, First Direct should 
have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms. It should have instead treated Ms B 
with forbearance, even if this meant taking corrective action in relation to the facility.
All of this means that First Direct should have realised that Ms B wasnt using her overdraft 
as intended and as the account conduct had suggested it had become unsustainable 
shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As First Direct didnt react to Ms Bs 
overdraft and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably. Ms B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft at a 
time when she was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Ms B lost out because of 
what First Direct did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what First Direct needs to do to put things right for Ms B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Bs complaint for First Direct to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from August 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made First Direct should contact Ms B to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Ms B is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with First Direct to 
reach a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record 
negative information on Ms Bs credit file, it should reflect what would have been 
recorded if it had started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft 
in August 2017. First Direct can also reduce Ms Bs overdraft limit by the amount 
of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then First 
Direct should remove any adverse information from Ms Bs credit file. First Direct 
can also reduce Ms Bs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires First Direct to take off tax from this interest. First Direct 
must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. HSBC Bank Plc (trading as 
First Direct) should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman