DRN-2944123
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Santander UK Plc delayed in offering her a reduced rate on her 
mortgage. 
What happened
Mrs F had an interest only mortgage with Santander, which was due to expire in November 
2019. In August of that year, she discussed her plans with Santander. One of the things she 
discussed was her property was on the market, and that she was worried about being able 
to afford the interest payment if it didnt sell in time and her mortgage reverted to the 
standard variable rate (SVR) at the end of the term. She was advised to call back around the 
end of the term, on 25 November 2019, to discuss the interest rate if necessary at that point.
Mrs F called back in early November. She spoke to an adviser about her repayment 
strategy. The interest rate wasnt mentioned, but it was agreed that there would be a review 
of the mortgage in January 2020.
The mortgage reverted to the SVR, and the mortgage term formally ended at the end of 
November. Mrs F paid the higher payments associated with being on the SVR. She says this 
was very difficult for her to be able to afford.
In January, during the mortgage review, Santander said that it had a reduced interest rate for 
vulnerable customers experiencing financial difficulty after the end of their mortgage term. It 
sent Mrs F an offer of this reduced rate. But by then Mrs F had arranged a new mortgage 
with another lender, so she didnt return the offer and the mortgage was redeemed in early 
February.
Mrs F complained that she had been required to pay the SVR in December and January. 
She said that Santander should have told her about the reduced rate sooner.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial thoughts. I said:
In August 2019, Mrs F made clear she was concerned about the impact of going on 
to the SVR if her property hadnt sold by the end of the term. She was told to call 
back at the end of November to discuss this.
In fact, she spoke to Santander in early November, and it agreed to review the 
mortgage in January. There was no discussion of the interest rate on this call. 
Santander says this was because Mrs F didnt ask, and the person she spoke to was 
from the collections department, so only able to discuss the repayment of the capital. 
She would have needed to ask about the interest rate. It was only in January, when 
Mrs F said how difficult she had found making her December payment, that it was 
able to offer her the reduced rate.
I think Santander could have done more here. It was on notice from August that 
paying the SVR would have been difficult for Mrs F. I dont think it was reasonable to 
leave it to her to specifically ask on a particular date, when either in August or early 
November arrangements could have been put in place to pre-empt Mrs F reverting to 
the SVR. While the mortgage could have redeemed in the meantime, that wouldnt 
have mattered  it would have made the reduced rate academic, but wouldnt have 
prejudiced either party. By waiting until the end of the term, Santander made it more 
likely that Mrs F would in fact revert to the SVR. 
Although Mrs F didnt take up the reduced rate in late January, that was because by 
then the mortgage was about to redeem and there was no need to. Had she been 
offered the reduced rate in November, Im satisfied she would have accepted it, and 
thats the position I think she should be put back in. Santander should refund the 
additional interest she paid. And I think it would be fair to offer £100 compensation in 
respect of the trouble and upset caused by having to struggle to find higher payments 
in December and January.
Santander agreed with my provisional decision. Mrs F was pleased that I had said it should 
refund the additional interest. But she didnt think that £100 compensation was enough  she 
said she thought £500 would be fair. She said she had serious medical problems at the time, 
having been well for two and a half years before this. She said that the flare up of her 
conditions was caused by the upset Santander caused. She said compensation of £100 was 
insulting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties now agree that the additional interest charged for the time the mortgage was on 
the SVR should be refunded. That leaves the question of what compensation is fair for 
Mrs Fs trouble and upset. 
Ive considered what Mrs F has said about this. Ive noted her health conditions, which Im 
very sorry to hear about. But the symptoms Mrs F has referred to seem to have begun 
before this complaint. Shes enclosed a letter from her solicitor, which refers to a separate 
complaint about an application to Santander to sell part of the property  and that did relate 
to her health conditions. That complaint was dealt with by another ombudsman, who didnt 
uphold it. I know Mrs F didnt accept that decision. But it has been decided, and its not 
something I can revisit here.
This complaint is solely about the short period of time Mrs F paid the SVR before she 
redeemed the mortgage. I appreciate Mrs F considers that the entire period of her 
complaints to Santander consisted of unfair treatment and exacerbated her health 
conditions. But I can only consider as part of this complaint the impact specifically of being 
on the SVR for two months, as what happened in the earlier period of time has already been 
dealt with. 
Im not persuaded that the evidence shows the impact of the SVR, of itself, was the cause of 
Mrs Fs health concerns. While I dont doubt that she found paying more than she needed to 
difficult and distressing, Im satisfied £100  in addition to the refunded interest  is fair 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:Refund the difference between what Mrs F actually paid, and what she would have 
paid had the mortgage been on the 2.99% reduced rate, from when the mortgage 
reverted to the SVR in November 2019 to when the mortgage was redeemed;
Add simple annual interest of 8% to the refund, running from the date of each 
additional payment to date of refund. Santander UK Plc may deduct income tax 
from the 8% interest element of my award but should explain what it has done so 
that Mrs F can reclaim the tax from HMRC if shes entitled to do so;
Pay Mrs F £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman