DRN-3377594
The complaint
Mr V complains that Prepaid Financial Services Limited (PFS) has blocked his accounts and 
refused access to the funds within them.
What happened
Mr V had multiple accounts with PFS. He was using these accounts to receive payments 
from a number of cashback incentives connected to the purchase of high-value electronic 
goods, including televisions and appliances.
In 2020 Mr V wanted to upgrade one of his accounts, and provided some documentation to 
support this. But PFS didnt think the information Mr V provided was satisfactory  and so it 
blocked his accounts and asked for certified copies of the documents hed provided. Mr V 
was unhappy so complained to PFS and then referred the complaint to us. 
Mr V then provided PFS and us with a certified copy of his rent receipt. We asked PFS about 
this, but it said the document was not satisfactory. So it wasnt able to review Mr Vs 
account.
Our investigator looked at this and didnt think PFS had acted incorrectly. Mr V didnt agree 
with the investigator. The complaint has now been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses like PFS are subject to a number of legal and regulatory requirements. 
In order to comply with these requirements, they may need to ask their customers for 
information about their identity or about transactions paid to the account. And while a 
business is doing this, it may need to restrict access to the account. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that PFS was acting in line with its obligations when it 
reviewed and restricted Mr Vs accounts. Im also satisfied that the terms and conditions of 
the account allowed PFS to restrict the account and ask him for additional information. I 
have reviewed PFSs concerns over the documents Mr V provided. I find their concerns are 
understandable and it was reasonable for them to not release the funds to him. I appreciate 
Mr V is disappointed that the information hes provided did not prove satisfactory. But I cant 
say that PFS has acted unreasonably here. And I dont think PFS holding onto the money 
until Mr V can provide satisfactory evidence is unreasonable either.
Ive considered Mr Vs further comments. He says he can easily prove his identity using his 
other identity documents. Hes now sent us a copy of his passport, driving license, and other 
identity documents. But PFS has said it wanted certified copies of the original documentation 
he provided them. I understand this includes both the rental receipts and the documentation 
relating to the cashback incentives he received. If Mr V is now able to provide these 
documents in a form that is satisfactory to PFS, he is free to do so. But I cannot say that 
PFS is wrong to require these. I also note that Mr V is unhappy as the investigator told him 
at one point that we wouldnt normally allow a business to retain funds indefinitely. But as 
Ive explained, I can understand PFSs concerns in this case. So this doesnt change my 
conclusions.
In all the circumstances, I dont think PFS has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman