DRN-3279859
The complaint
Miss D complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her  a 
conditional sale agreement she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In September 2017, Miss D acquired a used car financed by way of a conditional sale 
agreement from Moneybarn. The purchase price was £6,995. Miss D was required to make 
a total of 59 monthly payments of £240.82. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£14,208.38.
In January 2019 Miss D contacted Moneybarn to say she was experiencing financial 
difficulties. By January 2020, it was however necessary for Moneybarn to issue a default 
notice in January 2020. In February 2020 the agreement was terminated. The car was sold 
at auction in November 2021, following a court order being issued and the car having been 
collected from Miss D in May 2021. 
Miss D says Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said it 
carried out a thorough assessment and also verified Miss Ds income.
Miss D is also unhappy that she had incurred additional charges due to legal proceedings 
and the car then being sold by Moneybarn. She says she was ready to return the car to 
Moneybarn. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld and after Moneybarn confirmed that 
Miss D no longer had the car and it had been sold, another adjudicator made a 
recommendation for compensation, including a fair usage value. 
As Moneybarn didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why, having received details about Miss Ds bank 
account in the three months before she took out the agreement, she didnt think 
Moneybarn acted fairly. 
Having reviewed the complaint in detail, Ive decided to uphold this complaint on the same 
basis as our adjudicator. I will explain why. 
Before the finance was provided, Moneybarn has explained that it carried out affordability 
checks and asked Miss D to confirm the information provided in her application. It relied on 
bank statements Miss D provided as part of the application process  from June and July 
2017  in order to calculate Miss Ds income. At the time Miss D was working as an agency 
worker which meant that her level of income was likely to fluctuate. From what Ive seen it 
seems likely that her income for these two months may have been higher than her normal 
level of income, at around £2-2,100 for each month. However, her bank statement for 
August 2017 shows that her income dropped to around £1,700. So it seems likely that 
Moneybarn made a decision about providing Miss D credit based on evidence of income 
from the only the first two bank statements. That alone wasnt enough to give an accurate 
picture of her income when it was open to Moneybarn for example, to ask Miss D to confirm 
her annual income or obtain further bank statements. Im therefore not satisfied that the 
income checks Moneybarn carried out were reasonable.
Moneybarn also carried out a credit check and this showed Miss Ds other credit 
commitments and it said that the checks didnt raise concerns that meant the finance 
shouldnt be provided. Given that Moneybarn had obtained copies of Miss Ds bank 
statements, it was in a position to check her daily and committed expenditure. However, I 
cant see it did that or that it took other steps to check or ask Miss D about her expenditure. 
And although it completed a credit check, that wouldnt necessarily have shown what 
Miss Ds regular living expenses were, including those that wouldnt have appeared on her 
bank statements. Without having a fuller picture of Miss Ds regular committed expenditure, 
Moneybarn wouldnt have gained a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement 
was affordable or not. Ive also seen that Moneybarn was aware that Miss D had previously 
had defaults on her credit file. 
I therefore dont think that that Moneybarn did enough to complete proportionate checks. I 
dont know exactly what Moneybarn would have found out if it had asked Miss D for more 
information about her expenditure. But in the absence of anything else, I think it would be 
reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Miss Ds bank 
statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. Ive seen from the type of 
bank account she had that Miss D was expected to be using the overdraft facility often. She 
was  using her overdraft most of the time, only being in credit for a short time after 
receiving any income. And Ive seen that her committed expenditure included making 
payments of around £171 per month to a high-cost lender, alongside her other monthly 
expenditure. The bank statements also suggest that it was not unusual for her outgoings to 
exceed her income. Taking all this and her variable level of income account, I think Miss D 
was likely to have been left with a variable level of monthly disposable income and possibly 
no disposable income at all.  
I therefore think this shows Miss D wasnt in a position to afford to take on the additional 
expense of repayments towards the new agreement without financial difficulty or having 
to borrow further. Had Moneybarn completed proportionate checks, I think its likely it 
would have discovered this too. Moneybarn therefore didnt make a fair lending decision.
Putting things right  - what Moneybarn needs to do
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund 
all the payments Miss D has made, including any deposit. However, Miss D has had the 
use of the car for around 44 months, so I think its fair she pays for that use. But Im not 
persuaded that monthly repayments of around £240.82 a month are a fair reflection of 
what fair usage would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards 
repaying interest.There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding 
whats fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the 
agreement, Miss Ds likely overall usage of the car and what her costs to stay mobile 
would likely have been if she didnt have the car. In doing so, I think that a fair amount 
Miss D should pay is £115 for each month she had use of the car. This means Moneybarn 
can only ask her to repay a total of £5,060. Anything Miss D has paid in excess of this 
amount should be treated as an overpayment.
To settle Miss Ds complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments (including the deposit) Miss D has made, less £5,060 for 
fair usage. 
 If Miss D has paid more than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should 
refund any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
 If Miss D has paid less than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should 
arrange an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding 
balance. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit file regarding 
the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. 
Moneybarn must give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss D 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things 
right in the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman