DRN-3730823
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society have denied him access to his on-line 
account which is causing inconvenience.
What happened
In April 2022, Nationwide prevented a fraudulent on-line payment for £9600 from Mr Ss 
account to an account in another country. 
This fraud attempt involved impersonation and the hacking of Mr Ss computer and, for 
protection reasons, Nationwide put a block on Mr Ss on-line account.
Mr S is unhappy as it is inconvenient for him to visit his local branch to undertake banking 
activity and he wants Nationwide to lift the block.
However, Nationwide reviewed their action and said that theyre unable to lift the block. They 
say this is because they are concerned about the security of Mr Ss account and believe this 
action is necessary to protect Mr S, who they consider to be vulnerable to on-line fraud.
Mr S complained to our service; however, our investigator was satisfied Nationwide have 
acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the account terms and conditions.
As Mr S remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate that being unable to use on-line banking is extremely frustrating for Mr S, and 
that visiting a branch is inconvenient. But, equally, the measures that have been put in place 
are there to protect Mr S, and I can see why Nationwide are concerned here. 
This is because the attempted fraud was on-line and Mr S described hacking activity on his 
computer, which suggests his computer has been compromised. In addition, Nationwide 
have considered other factors such as the information the fraudster possessed. Also, Mr S 
had difficulty recalling events including details of the attempted fraud.
So, having reviewed the file, I think it reasonable for Nationwide to consider Mr S to be 
vulnerable to fraud. Also, to exercise caution by preventing on-line access. 
Furthermore, I can see that Nationwide have not taken this decision lightly and have done so 
under the following terms and conditions of the account which is there to protect customers:  
We can suspend or cancel your right to use cards (including card details in e-wallets or on 
devices such as mobile phones), PIN(s), Telephone Banking, Internet Banking, or our 
Banking app if we think it is reasonably necessary because:
a) we are concerned about their security, or
b) we believe that it is necessary for your and/or our protection, for example where 
we suspect and to prevent further fraud.
Also, Nationwide have explained they are acting with the best of intentions and have 
confirmed Mr S has access to his account and can still spend on his card.
So, although I do fully understand Mr Ss frustration, I dont think Nationwide need to take 
any further action with regards to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman