DRN-3582548
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) rejected a claim under their 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr W have a home insurance policy covering their household contents. 
In March 2022 some of their contents in their garden were damaged in bad weather so Mrs 
and Mr W made a claim. AXA initially handled the claim, and after a few weeks it decided 
that the damage to the contents in the garden wasnt covered. It referred to this section of its 
policy wording:
WHATS NOT COVERED?
4. Storm or flood
Loss or damage to contents in the open within the grounds of your home
AXA did say that its handling of the claim wasnt as good as it would have liked, and it 
apologised for raising Mrs and Mr Ws expectations. It awarded them £100 compensation for 
this.
Mrs and Mr W remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. They ask for 
half of the value of the damaged items to be paid by AXA.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he thought AXAs 
offer of £100 compensation was fair and reasonable, but he couldnt ask AXA to pay for the 
damaged contents because there wasnt any cover under the policy for that.
Mrs and Mr W didnt agree with the view. They asked that it was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mrs 
and Mr W so I will explain why.
Ive looked at the cover Mrs and Mr W bought from AXA to see if there is cover for the loss 
of the items in their garden.
I can see from the policy wording that Mrs and Mr Ws items would be of a type that would 
be covered as contents in the garden. 
In AXAs policy, these contents in the garden then have cover under the policy for certain 
specified events, namely Fire, Riots, Malicious Damage or Theft. But the event that is the 
most relevant here, storm, is excluded from the cover as mentioned above.
Ive thought carefully about whether the event that caused the damage was a storm.
AXAs definition of storm used in the policy wording is:
Storm 
A period of violent weather defined as;
 Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), equivalent to storm force 10 
of the Beaufort Scale, or
 Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, or
 Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 cms) in 24 hours, or
 Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Ive looked at the reported weather in the area around the time of the damage and I can see 
that the peak windspeed is about 32mph and the amount of rainfall was well below AXAs 
storm definition. So, under AXAs policy, the event that caused the damage to Mrs and Mr 
Ws contents in the garden wasnt a storm. 
But I mention above that Mrs and Mr Ws policy with AXA only provides cover for certain 
events happening to contents in the garden, and the type of damage that happened to Mrs 
and Mr Ws items wasnt of the sort that can be reasonably determined to be one of those 
covered events.
So, from the evidence I have, I dont think theres cover under the policy for the damage that 
happened to Mrs and Mr Ws contents in the garden and I cant say AXA have acted 
unreasonably in rejecting the claim. 
I can see AXA have paid Mrs and Mr W £100 compensation for its handling of the early part 
of the claim, and I think this is fair and reasonable and in line with what this service would 
expect. So Im not going to ask AXA to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman