DRN-3423780
The complaint
Mr S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on his motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to Ageas, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Ageas
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a premium- brand sports hatchback with 
four-wheel drive. It was first registered in 2003.
For the year from October 2020, Mr S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with
Ageas. Any claim for damage was subject to an excess of £200.00. 
Mr Ss wife was a named driver. Unfortunately, on 29 June 2021, she was involved in an 
accident that damaged the car. 
Ageas said the car was a total loss. Mr S complained to Ageas that it was under-stating the 
pre-accident value of the car. By a final response dated 11 October 2021, Ageas said its 
final valuation was £1,757.00.
Mr S brought his complaint to us in mid-November 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
Ageass final valuation figure of £1,757.00 was the highest of the valuation figures obtained.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S  
and to Ageas on 12 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
The Ageas final valuation of £1,757.00 was well within the range  and towards the 
top end of the range - of the trade guide figures. So I was satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from Ageas, my provisional decision was that 
I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any 
more in response to this complaint.
Neither Mr S nor Ageas has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We expect a motor insurer to assess a pre-accident market value by reference to the retail
prices in the trade guides. 
These guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. Im 
satisfied that they take into account relevant aspects of supply and demand.
I usually place less weight on advertisement for sale, as they contain asking prices that may
be negotiated downwards.
Ive noted the make, model, age, specification, mileage and condition of Mr Ss vehicle. 
For a vehicle like his at the time of the accident, Ive seen retail prices in the trade guides as
follows:
Cazana £1,354.00
Glasss £1,365.00
CAP £1,950.00
So I dont condone the early Ageas valuations of below £1,350.00.
And I cant explain how Ageas got a CAP figure of £1,757.00 yet we got a CAP figure of
£1,950.00. No doubt Mr S would prefer the highest figure.
But the Ageas final valuation of £1,757.00 was well within the range  and towards the top
end of the range - of the trade guide figures. So Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable.
Ive considered the adverts Mr S has shown us. But, of course, they are more recent than
the date of accident. And its possible that values have gone up even though the cars have
got older.
In any event, the advertisements arent good evidence of likely selling prices. Im not 
persuaded that the advertisements are enough to show that the CAP figure of £1,950.00
is fair but the Cazana and Glasss figures are unfair.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to increase its valuation again or to do 
any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman