DRN-2058790
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr T complain Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has unfairly declined a 
total and permanent disability claim they made for Mrs N.
What happened
In 2006 Mrs N and Mr T took out a joint policy which provided them both with life cover, 
critical illness cover (CIC) and total and permanent disability cover (TPD). The policy 
provided TPD cover based on Mrs Ns own occupation. They say they bought the policy 
because they ran their own business and wanted to know they were protected.
In 2017 Mrs N was diagnosed with heart failure caused by left ventricular systolic 
dysfunction (LVSD), and also with fast atrial fibrillation (AF). Mrs N and Mr N made a claim 
under their Aviva policy. In the claim form Mrs N gave her job title as Managing Director and 
described her key duties and the time she spent doing them as Picking, orders, packing, 
weighing & shipping 90%.
Aviva said heart failure and AF werent critical illnesses specified in the policy, so it 
considered a TPD claim rather than a CIC claim. But it declined the claim, as its Chief 
Medical Officer (CMO) thought Mrs Ns left ventricular function could continue to improve 
after further treatment options had been explored. Mrs N and Mr T complained to Aviva and 
over the following months they had further communication with it about both their claim and 
their complaint. 
Ultimately, Aviva said Mrs N and Mr Ts application for the policy described her as a 
company director with no manual/physical duties. so it had to look at whether she could 
work as a company director at all for any company, rather than at the specific duties she 
carried out immediately prior to becoming ill. And while she clearly had heart problems, there 
wasnt enough evidence to say Mrs N was completely and permanently unable to perform a 
non-manual role as a company director. 
Aviva said Mrs Ns AF was corrected by cardioversion and her consultant classified her heart 
failure symptoms as level II of the New York Heart Association scale (NYHA), which its 
CMO said wouldnt prevent desk-based work. And that Mrs Ns doctors and nurses thought 
further treatments could be tried to improve her symptoms. But it accepted Mrs Ns ability to 
work was severely restricted between June 2017 and November 2018 when her symptoms 
were at their worst, so under the Payment Protection part of the policy, it refunded the 
premiums they paid in this period, less the three month deferred period, totalling £4,068.30.
And Aviva offered to cancel the policy from 1 December 2018, as Mrs N and Mr T had told it 
theyd wanted to cancel the policy then, but didnt because of the outstanding claim. Aviva 
said it would refund the premiums theyd paid after this date but then wouldnt consider any 
changes to Mrs Ns health in relation to her claim, as cover would have ceased then. Mr N 
agreed, so the policy was cancelled with effect from 1 December 2018.
Mrs N and Mr T still thought Aviva had unfairly declined their claim, so they asked our 
service to investigate that point. They said Mrs Ns symptoms were more severe than her 
medical records suggested and provided a further letter from Mrs Ns General Practitioner 
(GP) dated 20 March 2020 to support this. In response, Aviva said it had already 
considered all the medical evidence, including from Mrs Ns cardiologist and its own CMO, 
and its position hadnt changed. And that it wouldnt consider any changes in Mrs Ns health 
after the policy was cancelled.
After looking into things, our investigator said Aviva had acted fairly in declining the claim, 
because the medical evidence suggested Mrs N was able to carry out a sedentary role and 
that there were further treatment options still available for her. 
Mrs N and Mr T asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman and made the 
following points which they particularly wanted the ombudsman to consider:
They thought Aviva had changed the wording of its final response letter, as they 
thought the letter it sent them was different to one it had given our service.
Mrs N was a managing director and a major shareholder of their business, so not 
easily replaced. Her illness had a significant impact on their business, which meant 
they had to sell it. 
The policy might have been mis-sold to them, because it didnt provide the protection 
they thought it would.
Mrs N was too ill to work, which her GP had confirmed. 
Mrs N received a monthly Personal Independence Payment (PIP), a government 
benefit to help with the extra costs of having long term ill-health or a disability. And her 
GP had supported her application for this.
It was ridiculous for Aviva to suggest Mrs N could work part-time as a director, 
because there was no such thing as a part-time director. And because no company 
would employ her, since they wouldnt be able to get employers liability insurance  
the company that took over their business tried to employ Mrs N but said it couldnt 
because of employers liability insurance.
As Mrs N and Mr T disagreed with our investigator, their complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that Im sorry to hear of Mrs Ns ill health, and I realise this will have 
been very difficult and upsetting for both her and Mr T. But while I dont in any way wish to 
add to their distress, Im not upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
But before I do, Id like to be clear that while Mrs N and Mrs T say Mrs Ns illness meant they 
had to sell their business and that the policy might have been mis-sold, my decision will only 
consider the decline of their claim. Thats because based on the evidence Ive seen, Aviva 
wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy in question. 
Mrs N was diagnosed with AF and heart failure caused by LVSD in 2017, and Ive seen 
these are not listed in the specified critical illnesses covered by the policy. So Im satisfied it 
was fair for Aviva to consider a TPD claim, rather than a CIC claim. 
The policy provided TPD cover based on Mrs Ns own occupation. The policys relevant TPD 
definition says The Life Insured is totally unable to follow his/her Normal Occupation as a 
result of sickness or accident and will, in the reasonable opinion of the Company's medical 
adviser, permanently continue to be totally unable to follow his/her normal occupation, taking into account current medical knowledge and technology. In other words, for a TPD claim to 
be paid, Avivas CMO must think that Mrs N is permanently and totally unable to follow her 
normal occupation. When deciding whether someone is permanently unable to work, an 
insurer would usually look at whether all treatment options had been explored. This is 
because its not possible to say an inability to work is permanent until all reasonable 
treatment options are exhausted.
Aviva says Mrs Ns occupation was described as company director with no manual/physical 
duties when Mrs N and Mr T applied for the policy, and Ive not seen that Mrs N and Mr T 
dispute this. However, in the claim form, Mrs N gave her job title as Managing Director and 
described her role as mostly manual work. I think its fair for Aviva to assess the claim 
against Mrs Ns job title at application and not the specific tasks she was carrying out in her 
job, as thats the risk it agreed to cover at the start of the policy.
Aviva says Mrs N hadnt met the policys TPD definition. To think about whether that was 
fair, Ive considered the medical evidence Ive been provided with. And having done so, I 
think it was. I say that because while Mrs N has undoubtedly been affected by her heart 
problems, the medical evidence suggests she wasnt totally and permanently unable to 
follow her own occupation as a company director between her diagnosis in 2017 and the 
policy ending on 1 December 2018. 
In a letter to Mrs Ns GP dated 17 October 2017, Mrs Ns consultant cardiologist says Mrs N 
remains in NYHA class III. And a further letter from her consultant cardiologist dated 
2 November 2017 said she was NYHA Class II to III, that theyve prescribed Mrs N a new 
medication and will review the effect on her ventricular rate, and will arrange a cardioversion 
procedure to see if Mrs Ns sinus rhythm can be restored.
And on 27 March 2018 Mrs Ns consultant cardiac electrophysiologist wrote to her GP to say 
Mrs N was in NYHA II to III heart failure and that they recommended she have an ablation 
procedure, plus a cardioversion in the meantime to see if it improved her left ventricular 
function. Then in a letter dated 2 May 2018, Mrs Ns heart failure nurse noted Mrs N had 
class II to III breathlessness and had been managing to work at her family business for a 
couple of weeks, but would be finishing work very soon as the business has been sold. 
Mrs Ns consultant cardiac surgeon wrote to her on 6 June 2018 saying I hear from your 
recent consultation that your heart rate management and heart failure management isn't 
optimum and there is room for improvement with further medicine treatment. In addition our 
surgical group thought you were too high risk at this stage without medical optimisation to 
undergo this relatively new procedure. The plan therefore is for [consultant cardiologist] and 
the heart failure team to work on your heart rate and heart failure treatment and consider a 
shock treatment to try and convert you back to normal heart rhythm. Sometimes this 
treatment may maintain normal rhythm only for a short time. However this may demonstrate 
any future procedural efforts have a good chance of improving your heart function. 
[consultant cardiologist] has agreed that we could reconsider your case in the future 
depending on how you progress with this treatment plan.
Mrs N had a cardioversion on 22 June 2018. And in a letter dated 29 November 2018, 
Mrs Ns consultant cardiac electrophysiologist said Mrs N was NYHA class II, breathless on 
stairs, struggled to carry weights upstairs, and tended to suffer from postural dizziness. They 
noted Mrs Ns main current concern was sleeping a lot, and they wondered whether low 
mood was contributing significantly to her reduced functional status and whether her GP 
could review her medication for this. They noted Mrs N didnt feel she could work as she 
currently is. So the heart specialists treating Mrs N thought she was at level III of the NYHA at most, 
which is defined as Marked limitation of physical activity. Comfortable at rest. Less than 
ordinary activity causes fatigue, palpitation, or dyspnea. And shortly before the policy was 
cancelled and cover ended, Mrs Ns heart specialist classed her as NYHA class II, which is 
defined as Slight limitation of physical activity. Comfortable at rest. Ordinary physical activity 
results in fatigue, palpitation, dyspnea (shortness of breath).. And they thought reviewing 
her medication could help at this time. 
Based on this, I think it was fair for Aviva to conclude Mrs N didnt meet the policys TPD 
definition. While Mrs N is undoubtedly unwell, Im satisfied she doesnt meet the policys 
TPD definition because the medical evidence shows that she has been having treatment 
since her diagnosis and there had been an improvement in her symptoms up to the time the 
policy was cancelled. And that there might have been room for further improvement. 
I know Mrs N and Mr T point out that Mrs N receives PIP, which her GP had supported. But 
this is a separate scheme administered by a different organisation using different criteria. So 
being eligible for PIP doesnt mean Mrs N meets the TPD definition set out in their policy 
with Aviva.
And I acknowledge Mrs N and Mr T say Mrs N was too ill to work and that her GP has 
confirmed this. In their March 2020 letter, the GP confirmed Mrs Ns diagnoses and said 
shed had symptoms of extreme fatigue, breathlessness on any kind of exertion and 
unpredictable episodes of collapse. And that these were significant, chronic and unlikely to 
resolve, and so Mrs N remains unfit to work. But the policy ended in December 2018, so I 
cant consider any changes to Mrs Ns health after that date. And I dont think this letter is 
enough for me to fairly say that Mrs N was permanently and totally unable to work in the role 
of a company director, as required by the policys TPD definition, before the policy ended. I 
also think more weight should be placed on the medical evidence from Mrs Ns treating heart 
specialists who, as Ive said, classed her as NYHA level II just before the policy ended. 
Mrs N and Mr T also say its wrong for Aviva to suggest Mrs N could work part-time as a 
director, as theres no such thing and no company would employ her. But the matter for me 
to decide here is whether it was fair for Aviva to decline the claim because Mrs N hadnt met 
the policys TPD definition. And for the reasons Ive explained, I think it was fair. 
I note Mrs N and Mr T say Aviva has provided different final response wording to our service. 
Aviva explained its position to Mrs N and Mr T in more than one letter and email, and it 
provided us with copies of those. Ive not seen that they are inconsistent in the way Mrs N 
and Mr T suggest. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman