DRN-2839969
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service provided by Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) in the provision
of his form P60 and other tax information, which meant he couldnt claim a possible tax
rebate as quickly as he wanted.
What happened
Mr H said he contacted Zurich in early 2020 to claim a partial uncrystallised funds pension
lump sum (UFPLS). He said he was told his form P60 would be sent. Later Zurich said in its
letter of 7 February 2020 that this would be sent after the current tax year was ended and he
could expect to receive his P60 in April 2020. It refused to issue his P60 sooner. He wanted
his P60 and details of a tax reference code. Without the code he couldnt complete any tax
documentation with HMRC. He wanted the P60 issued without delay and interest on
any late paid tax refund.
Zurich apologised because the P60 wasnt sent in April due to COVID 19 related delays. But
it said that the standard approach was to issue these after the tax year end. It offered £100
due to the delay. Mr H didnt think this was enough in the light of the inconvenience he was
caused, especially given the multiple complaints he had against Zurich. He wanted it to
apologise and offer a goodwill gesture for the loss of interest and additional frustration
caused by the delay due to their inaction.
My first provisional decision
I issued a first provisional decision in this case. In summary I said the following.
I first needed to consider if Zurich did anything wrong. I did have not power to make an
award for financial loss or distress and inconvenience unless I could conclude Zurich had.
At the core of the complaint was the issue of delay in the provision of information (Form P60
and a tax code) which Mr H says he needed to reclaim the tax paid on his UFPLS.
I considered the issue of the delay in the provision of the form P60. The form 
relates to the tax year so I thought it was reasonable that Zurich was in the habit of 
generating and issuing these after the tax year end. Given this it seemed unlikely that Zurich 
could have committed to issue it before the year end. So, I didnt think it mattered that Mr H 
said he wouldnt be making any further withdrawals from his policy before the year end and 
held no other policies with Zurich.
I noted Zurich originally suggested it would be available in April, but it was delayed due to
COVID 19. It was unfortunate that there was such a delay, but the impact of the pandemic 
was something outside the control of Zurich so I couldnt reasonably hold it responsible for 
the consequences of any delayed provision of the P60. Given this I would not have proposed 
an award for that delay, but I noted that Zurich did make a payment of £100. Given my view 
on the delay I thought that payment was fair and reasonable
Mr H also complained that he was not able to get information from Zurich about the relevant
Employer PAYE reference number which would be included on the form P60 and allowed 
him to make a tax reclaim before the tax year end.
I could see that producing a one-off form P60 before the tax year end would be
impractical, but I did not think it would have been particularly difficult to supply Mr H with the
employer PAYE reference, to enable him to complete the necessary tax reclaim. 
While I had seen a copy of the P60, I had not been able to ascertain exactly when the
form P60 was sent to Mr H nor when it was received by him. So, I did not know whether that
was before or after he submitted his tax return (which was how he eventually made his tax
reclaim in May 2020). I said It would be helpful if before I issued my final decision Mr H and
Zurich both confirmed when they received/ issued the P60.
In considering whether there was a delay I also considered how Mr H was seeking to
reclaim the tax. I noted that Zurich suggested Mr H could reclaim any overpaid tax before the
tax year end. Zurich may be referring to the use of a form P55 which is used to claim back
on a flexibly accessed pension overpayment.
I noted that the introduction to the form P55 states that if you are not a UK resident for tax
purposes you do not need to complete this form. Instead go to (direction to a foreign tax
helpline).
Mr H had confirmed that he was not resident in the UK for tax purposes so it would seem the
use of this form would not have been appropriate for Mr Hs circumstances and another
approach was needed. I did not know whether that approach would have allowed him to
make a claim before the tax year end if he had all the information, he needed to do that and
therefore, whether the absence of information from Zurich caused a delay in a claim before 6
April 2020.
I said it would help if Mr H could confirm whether there was another option available to him
that couldve allowed him to claim a tax refund before the tax year end and what information
he needed to do that. If there wasnt another option, then it would seem he could not in any
event have made a claim before 6 April 2020 so any delay before that time would not be due
to Zurich.
Ultimately Mr H said he submitted a full tax return on 24 May 2020 and received a tax
refund of £2,319 on 28 May 2020 (this compared to the tax deducted from his lump Sum of
£2,558.60).
It was clear Mr H must have had other income that needed to be considered because he
says the net refund reflected all his tax affairs. I didnt know why there was a time gap
between 6 April 2020, and the actual date of submission on 24 May 2020. This may have
been due to missing information on his other affairs and/or due to Zurich. For that reason, I
said it would be helpful if Mr H could confirm at what point before 24 May he had all other
papers required to submit his return and when (if he did) receive the information he needed
from Zurich before 24 May 2020.
I did not have enough evidence to conclude that Zurich had caused delay by not
proving the tax code information requested. So, I didnt propose to uphold this
complaint.
In reply to my provisional decision, Mr H confirmed he was asking for the Tax District 
Reference number of Zurich and said Zurich had repeatedly failed to supply this. He said he 
received a paper copy of form P60 on 19 May 2020. He said he had all other papers for his 
tax return within 10 days of the new tax year. He didnt use any other options before the tax year end as the HMRC web pages required submission at a very early stage of the tax 
district reference number which he didnt have.
Mr H also said that in a telephone call he made to initiate the lump sum payment Zurich said
they would provide a form P45. This would have included the PAYE reference. Had it
provided a P45, P50 or P60 or responded to his request for the PAYE reference he could
have applied earlier for a 100% refund of the tax deducted from the outset.
Mr H didnt confirm how he would have made a claim before 6 April 2020. He referred to
HMRC links for tax reclaims including one that lead to forms P53 and P53Z. Having looked
at these I note neither of which were suitable for use where the claimant was not UK resident
for tax purposes.
He referred to correspondence in February 2020 which referred to the need for a PAYE
reference number amongst other things as evidence that he had requested the reference
number.
Zurich said it issued the P60 on 15 May 2020 and it included the PAYE reference number. It
said it did think Mr H would have used form P55 and noted this did require the PAYE
reference number. It said it could not find any evidence it refused to provide the PAYE
reference on multiple occasions and had not found any evidence that he had specifically
requested this information.
It accepted that Mr H did refer to requiring the PAYE reference number in order to
make a tax reclaim in his emails of 15 February 2020 and 14 April 2020 but these were
linked to the request for the P60 and it seemed it may have overlooked that he wanted the
PAYE reference number separately so that he could make a claim using an alternative
method. It accepted it could have provided this and apologised if he did not receive the
number until he received the form P60.
My second provisional decision
In order to make an award I need to consider whether Zurich has done anything wrong.
I considered whether Zurich caused a delay by not providing the PAYE reference
sooner than the issue of the P60. I noted that in the 20 February letter (that both parties had 
referenced) there is reference to the need to have the PAYE reference among other
information that would be on the form P60.
In Mr Hs email in February 2020 he says Moreover, contacting HMRC to complete the P50
document as advised by.. is not possible as the settlement letter doesnt contain
information required by HMRC to complete a P50 such as the pension PAYE reference
Having read the correspondence I dont think it was clear that Mr H was asking to be
provided with the PAYE reference information separately from the other information on the
form P60. Instead his requests are presented as a reason for the form P60. The PAYE
reference is one example of what he needs (he said such as in this February email). I
couldnt see there was a clear request for the PAYE reference on its own and I didnt think
Zurich would reasonably have understood that Mr H wanted part of the information that
would be on the form P60 but not all of it. Indeed, this is what it has confirmed in its reply to 
my provisional decision. So, I didnt think Zurich was in error in not supplying that information
separately from the rest of the information on the form.
In my first provisional I concluded that I didnt think Zurich did anything wrong in delaying the
issue of the form P60 and having considered the further submissions received I remained ofthat view. I said that because it originally said it would be issued in April and in fact it was 
issued within the first half May. Given the delay was due to the pandemic which was outside 
its control I didnt think that a few extra weeks was an unreasonable amount of additional 
time.
Mr H maintains that had he been provided with a P45, P50 or P60 or the PAYE reference
code he could have applied for a 100% tax refund at the outset. 
It does not seem that a form P45 was appropriate. Indeed, Zurich says in its letter to Mr H, 
that unless he can supply an appropriate P45 it will have to deduct tax before making the 
payment. 
Form P50 appears to be an HMRC claim form that needs to be completed by Mr H and not 
the source of information.
I have already considered the position regarding the form P60 and the delay in issuing it.
Given those conclusions I didnt need to go further to consider the method by which he could 
have made a tax reclaim and the length of any suggested delay.
So, in conclusion for the reasons given I did not propose to uphold the complaint.
Zurich accepted my second provisional decision. 
Mr H did not accept my provisional decision. He referred to papers regarding this matter on 
another complaint against Zurich and the letter from Zurich whereby he said it acknowledged 
its failings in providing requested information and offered to pay £100 in compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what Mr H has said. I have reviewed the further information he referred to 
in support and have advised Mr H these are duplicates of papers I have already considered.
He referred to the letter from Zurich and the offer of £100. I have already considered and 
commented on this in my provisional decisions. 
So, for those reason I have not changed my mind.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman