DRN-4029430
The complaint
Miss J complains Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) (CGI) unfairly declined a 
claim under her pet insurance policy. Shes also unhappy they added an exclusion to her 
policy.
What happened
Miss J took out her CGI pet insurance policy in mid-September 2021. And in February 2022 
she submitted a claim after her puppy needed investigations for vomiting/regurgitation. 
CGI considered Miss Js claim; but felt it should be declined. They explained her policy didnt 
cover pre-existing conditions, and as her puppy had been to the vet for vomiting during the 
14-day waiting period of the policy, her claim was caught by this exclusion. Given they felt 
Miss Js puppy had a pre-existing condition, CGI said an exclusion was being placed on the 
policy for all claims to do with The Digestive System and any resulting conditions.
Miss J disagreed with CGIs decision and provided information from her vet that suggested 
the claim was unrelated to the vet visit that occurred in September 2021. CGI wasnt 
persuaded to change their mind, so Miss J brought her complaint to our Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. She explained the evidence initially 
provided by Miss Js vet when submitting the claim persuaded her CGI had applied the 
exclusion fairly.
Miss J disagreed and maintained diarrhoea and vomiting is common in puppies, and in turn 
didnt think her September and October 2021 vet visits were related to her claim. As our 
Investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, Miss J asked for her case to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 March 2023. In this, I explained I was minded to uphold 
Miss Js complaint because I wasnt persuaded the pre-existing conditions exclusion applied 
to her puppys claim.
Miss J accepted my provisional decision, but CGI did not. When responding they explained 
the medical notes provided by Miss Js vets suggested the puppy was suffering with 
digestive issues during the policys waiting period. As such they maintained it was fair for 
them to decline Miss Js claim, and to apply an exclusion for digestive issues to the policy.
Ive considered the further points provided by CGI; but they havent persuaded me to change 
my decision. Ill explain the reasons why, below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding Miss Js complaint for the reasons below.
Ive reviewed Miss Js policy and seen in the section headed Section 11  General
Exclusions it says:
If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these Pre- 
Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant 
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of the Pre-Existing Conditions.
The policy also defines a pre-existing condition as any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition 
and/or Associated Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting period.
Given the above, Im satisfied Miss Js policy doesnt provide cover for pre-existing 
conditions. So, Ive had to consider if the reason for Miss Js puppy to visit the vet in 
late September meets the criteria detailed in the terms and definition detailed above.
The medical history notes show Miss Js puppy visited the vet once during the 14-day 
waiting period because he was experiencing diarrhoea and had vomited that morning. There 
were two more visits, for the same symptoms, two weeks later. However, the notes from the 
last of those visits indicated there had been some improvement.
Given vomiting (during the waiting period) was mentioned in the medical history notes, I can
understand why CGI may have considered that to be relevant when considering Miss Js
claim for vomiting/regurgitation in February 2022. However, given five months passed
between the September/October 2021 visits and the ones subsequently claimed for, Id
need to be persuaded as to why CGI considered the symptoms to be associated, in order 
to clearly justify their decision to decline Miss Js claim - and apply an exclusion on her policy 
for any claims related to the digestive system.
Ive seen that Miss Js vet wrote to CGI and disagreed with their decision to decline the 
claim. They explained that when the puppy was seen in late September/October 2021, it was
for diarrhoea with a small component of sickness. They went on to explain that the
symptoms were almost completely resolved by the third visit in October 2021; and there was
no diagnosis. However, as he was a new puppy it could have been due to a new diet,
circulating bug etc and that the puppy was fine until the visit in February 2022 when he was
being treated for vomiting/regurgitation. The vet also explained he believed Miss Js puppy
has a reflux condition/hiatal hernia and hed never presented symptoms for this before
February 2022. Also, that diarrhoea isnt commonly associated with reflux disorders.
Miss J has sent us several articles that explain its common for new puppies to experience
diarrhoea and vomiting due to stress or new foods. This further supports the comments
provided by the vet. So, I can understand why they disagree with the conclusions reached by 
CGI after considering this claim.
Following my provisional decision, CGI provided greater clarification on their interpretation of 
the medical notes. CGI said the medical notes explain the puppy experienced sickness and 
diarrhoea from late September 2021, and it lasted for around 25 days despite medication 
being prescribed by the vet. They consider this demonstrates the puppy was suffering with 
digestive issues from that time  and they continued when the puppy was seen again by the 
vet in February 2022. 
Ive taken on board what CGI has said, and I can understand why they may have reached 
the conclusions they have. However, I cant ignore the fact that symptoms that might be 
associated with digestive issues, can also present themselves for the mere fact that a puppy 
is very young. And at the time Miss Js puppy visited the vet during the waiting period, its 
possible the symptoms were caused by his age and being in a new environment. I do think this complaint is finely balanced. However, I consider the medical notes suggest 
the puppy was relatively healthy for a period of around four months, before going back to the 
vet with what turned out to potentially be a hernia. Furthermore, while CGI have placed a lot 
of weight on the instances the puppy vomited, the vet has explained that isnt a common 
symptom for the condition Miss J is claiming for. Therefore, on balance, Im not persuaded 
the symptoms that presented themselves during the waiting period are associated with the 
condition Miss J is claiming for. 
I appreciate the policy doesnt require a condition to be diagnosed in order to meet CGIs 
definition of pre-existing. However, Ive just not seen enough to safely conclude the 
February 2022 claim resulted from a pre-existing condition. And in the absence of that 
evidence, Im not persuaded it was fair for CGI to decline Miss Js claim on that basis  nor 
was it fair to apply the exclusion for any claims that arise from the digestive system and any 
resulting condition.
Given the above, Im minded to uphold Miss Js complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Miss Js complaint.
To put things right, Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should:
Consider and resolve Miss Js claim in line with the other policy terms and conditions.
If Miss Js claim is covered, as shes already paid the vet, CGI will need to pay her 
interest, at 8% simple a year, on any amount they need to reimburse Miss J.
Remove the exclusion for digestive issues if Miss J still has a policy with them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman