DRN-3298622
The complaint
Mr H and Ms H complain that Legal and General Assurance Society (L&G) wont pay a 
retrospective terminal illness claim for Mr H.
What happened
Mr H and Ms H had a level term assurance policy with L&G with a sum assured of £75,000. 
This ended in August 2012.
In 2017 Mr H and Ms H asked L&G to consider a retrospective terminal illness claim for 
Mr H. 
In 2003 Mr H suffered a serious renal crisis. Ms H said shed been in contact with L&G at 
that time, but she was wrongly advised that the policy didnt include a terminal illness benefit. 
She later discovered this was incorrect and so wanted to raise the claim retrospectively. 
L&G refused to consider the claim, and so Mr H and Ms H brought their complaint to our 
Service. One of our Investigators looked into matters. They were of the view Ms Hs 
complaint about being given incorrect information in 2003 had been brought to our Service 
out of time. But they did consider the complaint about L&Gs refusal to consider a 
retrospective claim. They recommended that Ms H and Mr H be allowed to provide medical 
evidence in support of their claim to L&G for consideration and that it make a formal claims 
decision. 
So, in 2019, Mr H and Ms H provided evidence to L&G which they felt showed that in 2003 
Mr H met the criteria for a payment under the terminal illness benefit of the policy.
L&G reviewed things but said the claim wasnt payable. Mr H and Ms H didnt agree and so 
they raised a new complaint.
Ms H raised a number of points with L&G. In particular, she highlighted that she found its 
reliance on Mr Hs continued survival as reason to decline the claim offensive. She also 
stressed that they hadnt been advised correctly by L&G in 2003 which is why the claim was 
raised retrospectively.
L&G didnt uphold the complaint. In its response, it noted Mr H had outlived the policy. 
It confirmed its chief medical officer (CMO) was of the view Mr Hs survival wouldnt have 
been less than 12 months in 2003. The CMO commented that whilst Mr Hs condition was 
potentially life-threatening, Mr H was treated and his condition stabilised.
Mr H and Ms H disagreed, so they brought their concerns to our Service. 
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. They were of the view the 
decline of the claim was fair.
Mr and Ms H didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that I was sorry to hear about Mr Hs ill health and the ongoing 
impact on him and his family. Id also like to extend my sympathies to Ms H after reading 
about some of the difficulties she has experienced over recent years. 
Id also like to explain that my decision wont address every point or comment made by 
either Mr H, Ms H or L&G. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure all parties 
that I have considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided to our Service. 
But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
Im aware that Ms H requested more time to consider the information obtained when she 
submitted a subject access request to our Service. However, having carefully considered the 
request and the evidence available in this complaint, Im satisfied Im able to fairly issue a 
final decision based on the information available to me.
The schedule for this policy says that L&G will pay a claim If either Life Assured has an 
advanced or rapidly progressing disabling terminal illness where, in the opinion of 
Legal & Generals Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancyis no longer than 12 months, 
Legal & General will make an advance payment of the Sum Assured.
As outlined in the schedule, a terminal illness payment is an early payment of the sum 
assured on a life assurance policy. This enables the terminally ill individual to have access to 
the money before they pass away. So, retrospectively considering such a payment isnt in 
line with its fundamental purpose, and the assessment of any such claim is made much 
harder by the passage of time and the benefit of hindsight.
Im conscious that Ms H believes L&G made a mistake back in 2003 and this is why the 
claim wasnt raised sooner. However, I am unable to look at whether a mistake occurred in 
2003 as this matter has already been considered by our Service and was deemed to have 
been raised out of time. So, I cannot fairly take this alleged mistake into account. Im unable 
to conclude, as Ms H would like me to, that the delay to this claim was due to an error made 
by L&G.
Setting that to one side, L&G has now looked into the claim. And it has confirmed that it 
doesnt consider it payable. Its CMO is of the view Mr Hs survival wouldnt have been 
considered to be less than 12 months had a claim been raised in 2003.
I have reviewed the evidence provided, and Im not persuaded that the claim is payable  
Ill explain why. 
The medical records show Mr H was incredibly ill. But there are no explicit references in the 
contemporaneous evidence stating Mr H had no longer than 12 months to live. 
The only references to survival are in recent statements that Mr H and Ms H have provided 
from Mr Hs treating doctors. One dated December 2020 said:
he was extremely ill and I can quite believe the insurance policy should have covered him.
Whilst I appreciate they are of the opinion Mr H should have been covered under the policy, 
Im not persuaded by their testimony as this is largely an opinion about the sort of cover the policy should offer rather than an expert opinion on Mr Hs health. As outlined above, it is not 
in dispute that Mr H was extremely ill.
Another consultant statement dated April 2019 stated:
I can certainly confirm that the medical condition when he [Mr H] was admittedin 
September 2003 was extremely dire...Clearly, with careful medical management you did 
survive this episode, but I think that it was really against the odds in that in my experience 
more than half of patients who present with this severitydo not survive. With this in mind, I 
do not think it would have been unreasonable to state that your prognosis of survival at the 
time we were looking after you on balance would have been less than 12 months although of 
course in retrospect you have done much better than expected.
The difficulty with these statements is that theyve been provided around sixteen years after 
the events with the benefit of hindsight and in the context of an outstanding and substantial 
life assurance claim. So, I think they carry significantly less weight. 
And whilst I appreciate the recent consultant letters reflect on contemporaneous medical 
records, I still dont think they persuasively demonstrate Mr H met the definition outlined in 
the policy. 
It is clear that Mr H was very unwell in 2003. But a doctor noting someone survived against 
the odds or saying that more than half of patients who present with this severitydo not 
survive isnt the same as saying they were of the opinion, in 2003, that Mr H was not going 
to survive longer than 12 months.
I appreciate the same doctor does go on to say your prognosis of survival at the time we 
were looking after you on balance would have been less than 12 months, but this statement 
is also qualified with the phrase it would not have been unreasonable to state So, the 
evidence provided doesnt persuade me they were of the view life expectancy was no longer 
than 12 months back in 2003. Just that such a view wouldnt have been unreasonable. And I 
dont think this retrospective, qualified statement is sufficient to show that L&Gs declinature 
of the claim is unfair.
I dont think the medical evidence shows that had a claim been made in 2003, the criteria for 
a terminal illness claim would have been met and a claim paid out. 
Whilst I appreciate this will come as a significant disappointment to Mr and Ms H, I think L&G 
has acted fairly and I dont think it needs to take any further action in relation to this claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman