DRN-2919941
The complaint
Miss H complains about the service provided by esure Insurance Limited (esure) under her 
motor insurance policy. 
esure uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Any reference to esure in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
In July 2020 Miss H was involved in a car accident in which she was in collision with a third 
party vehicle. Miss H contacted esure and described the circumstances of the accident. She 
maintained that she was not at fault, her view being that the third party had changed lanes 
and moved in front of her, causing her to hit the rear of the vehicle. Miss H had third party 
fire and theft cover under her policy, but esure said that they would investigate the 
circumstances of the accident. Miss H subsequently contacted esure a few weeks later (on a 
different issue) but was told that esure had settled the claim from the third party, having held 
Miss H responsible for the accident.
Miss H was unhappy at esures decision and complained. In their Final Response Letter in 
August 2020 esure concluded that they had acted prematurely in initially recording the claim 
as a fault claim against Miss H, and as a result settling the third partys repair costs in full 
without communicating this to her. esure also said that the claim should have been subject 
to further investigation by their liability department with a view to holding the third party 
responsible. As the claim had wrongly been recorded as a fault claim, this further 
investigation didnt happen. While esure acknowledged it was uncertain what may have 
been the outcome of any further investigation - had it taken place - they had to consider the 
possibility that it could have resulted in the claim being settled entirely in Miss Hs favour 
(that is, as a non-fault claim).
 
In recognition of this potential outcome, esure said that they would change the status of Miss 
Hs claim on their systems to non-fault. They also offered her £100 in compensation. 
Miss H was unhappy at the outcome of her complaint and complained to this service in 
October 2020. The main elements of her complaint were that esure didnt tell her that they 
had held her at fault for the accident and that esure wouldnt pursue a claim against the third 
party for damage to Miss Hs vehicle (which she said had cost her £600 to repair). Also that 
her premium increased at renewal, which Miss H was concerned indicated that it was based 
on incorrect information about the fault for the accident. She also felt that the £100 
compensation offered wasnt sufficient for the trouble and upset she had suffered.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He concluded that esure had acted 
fairly in amending Miss Hs claims record to show the accident as no-fault, and that 
their offer of £100 compensation was reasonable. He also concluded that esure had 
properly reflected the no-fault accident in Miss Hs subsequent premium. But he 
didnt think esure had acted fairly because in settling the third party claim and not 
investigating it as they would have done. Had they not prematurely classified it as a 
fault accident, Miss H would have been able to pursue the third party for the costs of 
repair to her own vehicle. He concluded that esure should pay for the costs of repair 
to Miss Hs vehicle.  
esure disagreed with the investigators conclusions, in particular that they should reimburse 
Miss H for the cost of repairs to her vehicle, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
In a provisional decision I disagreed with the investigators conclusion that esure 
hadnt acted fairly in settling the third party claim and not investigating it as they would 
have done, and that esure should pay for the costs of repair to Miss Hs vehicle. In my 
view, on the balance of probabilities, given the nature of the accident together with 
the legal opinion from esure  I thought it unlikely that Miss H wouldnt have been held 
to be completely or predominantly at fault. In that scenario she wouldnt have 
recovered her repair costs (or recovered only a small proportion). I also noted that a 
further consequence would have been that she would have had a fault claim recorded 
against her (or predominantly at fault) that would in have adversely affected her future 
risk profile and her entitlement to NCD. That would have had an adverse impact on 
her future premiums and could have more than offset any recovery she might have 
received from the third party. So, I concluded that Miss H on balance had a better 
outcome.
Because I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both 
parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether esure has acted fairly towards Miss H. 
There are several elements of complaint, some of which arent ones where the 
investigators conclusions have been disputed. Ill consider those first, before moving 
on to the key area of disagreement, the investigators conclusion that esure should 
pay for the cost of repairs to Miss Hs vehicle.
Taking the former elements of complaint first, Miss H is unhappy that she wasnt told 
that esure had prematurely held her at fault for the accident and settled the third 
party claim. I can see that esure acknowledged that they shouldnt have done this 
when responding to Miss Hs complaint, and I agree that this was unfair. Ive 
considered their response, which was to amend Miss Hs claims record to show the 
accident as no-fault. I think thats fair in the circumstances, bearing in mind that had 
an investigation been carried out it could have concluded that Miss H was partly or 
fully at fault. I also think that, in addition, paying her £100 in compensation is fair 
when taken together with the decision to show the accident as no-fault.
Miss H is also concerned that her premium subsequently increased after the 
accident, and that this this increase could have been due to esure using incorrect 
information (whether the accident was recorded as fault or no-fault). Ive looked at 
the evidence on this point. Esure werent able to provide the detailed underwriting 
date supporting Miss Hs premium, but Ive noted that Miss H allowed her third party 
fire and theft policy to lapse and took out a comprehensive policy (in October 2020). 
All other things being equal, I would expect her premium to be higher as she was 
taking out a greater level of cover. esure have also confirmed that they did take into 
account her not being held to be at fault for the accident when they calculated her premium, and I can see this has been reflected in the claims history section of her 
comprehensive policy schedule.
 
Ive also noted that in respect of her No Claims Discount (NCD), on the schedule for 
her previous third party fire and theft policy (in May 2020), it records one years NCD. 
The same section on her comprehensive policy schedule records two years NCD. 
So Ive concluded that esure have accurately reflected the July 2020 accident as a 
no-fault incident, and this in turn hasnt adversely affected her NCD. Ive also seen a 
copy of the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database which notes the status of 
the July 2020 accident as allowed for the purposes of NCD. This description means 
that the accident has not affected her NCD status.
Taking these points together, Ive concluded that esure have used accurate 
information about Miss Hs claims history. And they have reflected this in the 
premium for her comprehensive policy taken out subsequent to the accident.
Turning to the issue of the cost of repairs to Miss Hs car, Ive considered several 
points together with the representations of Miss H and esure. At the time of the 
accident, as Miss H had a third party fire and theft policy then esure have said that 
they wouldnt have had any involvement with the repairs to Miss Hs vehicle, as her 
policy did not cover damage in an accident to her own vehicle. But that she could 
have pursued a claim against the third party or used the services of a claims 
management company to do so. Ive also noted that Miss Hs policy at the time of the 
accident included legal protection cover, so she would have had the option of using 
that facility to assess whether she would have been able to pursue the third party 
(and/or their insurer  which happened also to be esure) for the costs she incurred in 
repairing her own car. So I think she could have pursued one or more of these 
options that may have led to her recovering some or all of her repair costs.
As an investigation by esures liability department wasnt carried out, then its not 
possible to conclude definitively what that might have determined. Miss H maintains 
that the third party vehicle changed lanes immediately in front of her, causing her to 
collide with the rear of the vehicle. esure have stated that given the circumstances of 
the accident they wouldnt have pursued the losses (the costs incurred by Miss H). I 
also recognise esures point that cases involving collision with the rear of a third party 
are difficult to prove to be 100% the responsibility of the other party, and that it would 
be difficult to show that fault wasnt other than the fault of the first party.
 
As part of their response to the investigators view, esure cited legal opinion that in 
the absence of any independent evidence, the prospects of Miss H making a 
recovery of costs against the third party would be less than 50%, based on case law 
in cases involving accidents of this type.
 
Ive also considered esures view that while they amended their records to show the 
accident as no-fault on the part of Miss H, this shouldnt be seen as indicating that 
the fault lay with the third party and therefore Miss Hs costs should be recovered 
from the third party (or from their insurer, being esure in this case). In addition, 
esures legal advisors stated that amending Miss Hs claims record from fault to no-
fault wouldnt change the chances of a successful claim against the third party, and 
that ultimately liability could only be determined through the courts. I find this position 
persuasive and concluded that the amendment of Miss Hs claim record to show no-
fault was a response to esure prematurely recording the accident as a fault claim 
against Miss H and not carrying out an investigation. It recognises the possibility 
(my emphasis) that such an investigation might have attributed no fault to Miss H.
 Ive considered carefully the arguments on this point, together with the 
available evidence. On the balance of probabilities, given the nature of the 
accident together with the legal opinion from esure then I think it is unlikely 
that Miss H wouldnt have been held to be completely or predominantly at 
fault. In that scenario she wouldnt have recovered her repair costs (or 
recovered only a small proportion). 
A further consequence would have been that she would have had a fault claim 
recorded against her (or predominantly at fault). In turn that would have 
adversely affected her future risk profile and her entitlement to NCD. That 
would have had a significant, ongoing adverse impact on her future premiums. 
That could have more than offset any recovery she might have received from 
the third party. 
So, Ive concluded that by the accident being recorded as no-fault  and 
thereby preserving her NCD record  Miss H has on balance had a better 
outcome. And she also has the £100 in compensation. I understand that esure 
has paid Miss H the £100 so I would not propose to require them to do 
anything further. Given the circumstances outlined above, I think thats a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I dont uphold Miss Hs 
complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. 
esure didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date requested.
Miss H responded to say that she was still unhappy with the situation, but that the judgement 
had been made. She said it was sad that information was not provided to her by esure in a 
way that she understood, but that she had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that esure didnt respond to my provisional decision. Ive also considered the 
response from Miss H. I appreciate her position and that she remains unhappy with the 
situation. But I think that, as I sought to explain in my provisional decision, in the 
circumstances of the case she has on balance had a better outcome. So, for the reasons set 
out, above I havent changed my view and my final decision and reasoning remains the 
same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman