DRN-4083517
The complaint
Ms M and Mr O complain that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax led him to believe that 
they had arranged a new five year fixed rate interest product on their mortgage, when it had 
not done so.
What happened
Ms M and Mr O had a mortgage with Halifax. It had a fixed interest rate product that was due 
to expire on 30 September 2022. If the product was switched before that date an early 
repayment charge (ERC) would apply.
In June 2022, Ms M and Mr O spoke to a broker about arranging a new five year fixed 
interest rate product. They chose a fixed rate of 2.82%.
Later that month Halifax wrote to Ms M and Mr O with a product transfer offer and a letter 
confirming that the mortgage would switch to the new product on 1 July 2022. Ms M and Mr 
O spoke to Halifax and it confirmed that the new product was in place and would begin on 1 
July 2022.
In September 2022, Halifax wrote to Ms M and Mr O to say that their mortgage was going to 
revert to its standard variable rate (SVR) of 5.24%. Halifax accepted it had made a mistake 
by offering Ms M and Mr O a new product in June 2022. It offered Ms M and Mr O an five 
year fixed interest rate product of 3.25% It said this was the best five year fixed rate 
available from it at the earliest date Ms M and Mr O could have arranged a new product 
without incurring an ERC.
Ms M and Mr O complain that Halifax led them to believe that they had set up a new product 
on their mortgage when it had not, in fact, done so. They said that because of that, they 
didnt ask their broker to carry out a full review of the market to see what rates were 
available and may have missed out on competitive deals from other lenders. At a minimum 
they want Halifax to honour the 2.82% interest rate and to increase its offer of compensation 
from £60.
I issued a provisional decision. Subject to any further submissions, I found:
It was the broker who recommended and then cancelled the 2.82% interest rate product. 
Halifax was not wholly responsible for what happened . It was acting on the brokers 
instructions.
Halifax had made a mistake in leading Ms M and Mr O to believe that a new product was 
in place from July 2022.
If Halifax had told Ms M and Mr O the correct information, it was likely they would have 
gone back to the broker. But I didnt consider the evidence and circumstances supported 
that they would have chosen a different rate from the one that Halifax eventually offered 
them, which was the best interest rate available from Halifax when the ERC had expired.
I proposed that Halifax should pay Ms M and Mr O £350 to reflect any distress and 
inconvenience caused by it.
Ms M and Mr O said they had nothing further to add. Halifax said that Ms M and Mr O had 
been told to ignore any letter regarding the new product and it told them they should refer 
back to the broker. It considered its offer of £60 for any distress and inconvenience was fair 
as they knew the application had been cancelled and were advised to go back to their 
broker. But they disregarded both the broker and Halifax. So any distress arose from their 
actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has provided a recording of the conversation it had with Mr O by phone on 18 June 
2022. In that phone call:
Mr O said he wanted to check the new fixed rate had gone through.
Halifax confirmed a number of times that the new rate was in place from 1 July 2022. 
Mr O said hed spoken to his broker and theyd told him to ignore the letter from Halifax 
so he was confused.
Halifax confirmed the application had completed but Mr O should check with the broker.
Mr O said as far as Halifax is concerned that deal is done its not an error or anything? 
Halifax said yes. Mr O said theres nothing else you need from me, its all been 
approved. Halifax said correct.
Halifax had a duty to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. I can see 
how Mr O left the call with the impression that the interest rate product was in place, had 
been agreed and there was nothing else he needed to do. While Halifax did tell Mr M to 
check with the broker I can see how Mr O left the conversation reassured that the interest 
rate was in place.
I agree that it is likely that the broker might be responsible for a great deal of what happened 
here. But Halifax added to that by unfairly raising Ms M and Mr Os expectations. After 
listening to what theyve said about the impact on them I consider £350 is a fair amount to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused directly by Halifax. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Ms M and Mr O 
£350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman