DRN-3162467
The complaint
Mr K complains about a payment that was due to be made to his loan account with HSBC 
UK Bank Plc (HSBC) that wasnt made. 
Mr K also complains that a request for a Covid related payment holiday on his HSBC loan 
was declined. 
 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr K called HSBC to pay his credit card balance and ask for a payment 
break extension on his loan. Mr K says that an advisor at HSBC told him to use some of the 
payment he was making to his credit card to transfer onto his loan and clear three months 
worth of arrears he had built up. Mr K says he agreed to this.
Mr K says he then applied for a payment holiday in May 2020 as he was still struggling 
financially, but this was declined. When he spoke to an advisor at HSBC they told Mr K that 
he was three months in arrears on his loan payments and didnt qualify for the payment 
holiday. Mr K didnt agree that this was correct, as he had agreed to use some of the credit 
card payment to pay the arrears when he called in January 2020. So, he logged a complaint 
with HSBC.
HSBC investigated the complaint and upheld it. It said its advisor had forgotten to make the 
loan payments in January 2020 when they had spoken to Mr K. To compensate Mr K for the 
trouble and upset it had cause, it agreed to correct Mr Ks credit file for the month the 
payment shouldve been made, and it offered £300 compensation. 
Mr K didnt accept HSBCs response. He said he wanted three months loan payments 
written off due to the bank error. HSBC didnt agree this was reasonable, so Mr K brought 
his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed HSBC had made an error. But our 
investigator found Mr K couldve checked his statement in February 2020 and seen the 
payment wasnt made, minimising the impact of the error. He also found that £300 
compensated Mr K fairly for the mistake and the trouble and upset it had caused him.
 
As Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me to issue 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Its clear the advisor that spoke to Mr K in January 2020 made an error when he didnt make 
the transfer onto Mr Ks loan from his credit card. All parties agree to this point, so I dont find 
I need to investigate this point again. What I do need to make a finding on is whether I agree 
the compensation offered by HSBC fairly compensates Mr K for the error. 
Having done so, I havent found HSBC needs to increase its offer of compensation  Ill 
explain why.
When a business makes an error, we ask that where possible, it puts the consumer back in 
the position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, HSBC have corrected Mr Ks credit report for the loan 
arrears payment that wasnt made. This is exactly what I would expect it to do.
I understand Mr K says he was going through a stressful time around the point the mistake 
was made. Mr K had recently lost his job and was struggling to find new employment. But Mr 
K wasnt aware the mistake had been made until he called and spoke to an advisor around 
May time. At this point the mistake was quickly investigated and rectified. Given how quickly 
HSBC corrected the mistake, Im satisfied the £300 it has offered for the trouble and upset it 
caused fairly compensates Mr K for the worry of the payment not being made and the 
disappointment of the declined payment holiday. 
Its worth noting that Mr Ks credit card and loan account were no worse off financially 
because of the mistake HSBC made. Mr Ks credit card balance was left at a nil balance, 
and the arrears that were on the loan account were not increased. Although Mr K did pay off 
the arrears balance when he called in May, this is money that he wouldve needed to pay off 
on his credit card. 
I understand Mr K had his request for a payment holiday declined due to being in arrears 
that he thought he had paid. I can see from the internal advisor notes HSBC have given us 
and from the Final Response letter (FRL) that around two weeks after HSBC had found the 
error and corrected it, it advised Mr K that he could reapply for the payment holiday. Had Mr 
K still wanted a payment holiday, I think he wouldve applied for one - given this was Mr Ks 
main complaint.  I can also see HSBC have reached out to Mr K to offer support with paying 
back his loan, but to date this support hasnt been taken.
In summary its clear a mistake was made by HSBC. But Im satisfied it corrected the error in 
a timely manner and it has offered Mr K a fair amount of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr K £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr K 
£300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman