DRN-2852416
The complaint
Mrs A complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have treated her unfairly 
when considering a claim on her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
On 22 January 2021 Mrs A submitted a claim to Red Sands for surgery to her pet as a result 
of a foreign object inside him. The claim was turned down due to an exclusion on the policy 
for gastroenteritis. Mrs A said she told Red Sands this was different and Red Sands received 
the correct diagnosis on 25 January 2021, but the claim was still turned down. After several 
further conversations the vets sent a letter on 10 February 2021 once again to confirm the 
correct information. The next day Mrs A got in touch because shed not heard anything from 
Red Sands and says she was told itd be 1-3 days for the claim to be reassessed. After 
speaking to a supervisor, she was then told it was actually 3-5 days. On 15 February, Mrs A 
received another letter saying they wouldnt pay the claim  but having already complained 
received a response to the complaint the next day saying they would meet the claim.
In that response on 16 February Red Sands said theyd accepted the claim because the 
foreign body was an unforeseen accident and not specifically related to a digestive condition 
which was excluded. Red Sands said the vets had recorded the claim as for gastroenteritis, 
but after receiving the clarification from them paid the claim.
Unhappy with Red Sands response Mrs A asked us to look into things. She said shes 
submitted three claims over her dogs lifetime and each time shes had to complain about the 
claim for it to be investigated properly. Mrs A said during the month it took for Red Sands to 
reassess the claim, she and her wife hardly slept, were very stressed at the thought of 
having to pay over £2,000 for claim, and her wife was on furlough. So, she was worried 
about how they were going to pay for it and didnt spend any money for a month because of 
it. Mrs A said its disgusting Red Sands turn down claims, see if people complain and only 
overturn it if they do.
One of our investigators considered everything. She felt Red Sands should have accepted 
the claim earlier than they did. Because the claim had now been paid there was no financial 
loss, but our investigator felt £100 compensation was fair for the distress caused to Mrs A by 
Red Sands delays.
Red sands accepted this, but Mrs A didnt. She didnt think £100 compensation properly 
reflected the distress shed experienced and referred to our website for information about 
awards we make, and she looked at other decisions to explain why she felt more would be 
fairer. As Mrs A didnt agree the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mrs As case the claim has since been paid, so I dont need to consider this. And its not in 
dispute that on 25 January 2021 Red Sands were given the correct information to assess the 
claim, but then didnt properly do so until their response of 16 February 2021.
The outstanding issue is compensation. Our investigator recommended £100 which 
Red Sands accepted but Mrs A hasnt. I think its important to explain that each case is 
considered on its own merits, and compensation awards arent an exact science.
Its clear the three-week delay Mrs A experienced has an impact on her. Shes talked about 
sleepless nights worrying about the vets bill of around £2,000  and didnt spend any 
money for a month because of it.
Im sorry to hear exactly how its impacted on her. But I do have to take into account all of 
the circumstances. And it seems the original issue was at least partly caused as a result of 
the incorrect diagnosis being given to Red Sands. I think thats a reasonable mitigating factor 
to take into account when considering what compensation would be appropriate.
I also need to take into account that making a claim for treatment for someones pet is likely 
to be a stressful time  as Mrs A herself has said  which I think at least partly contributed to 
her stress.
Its clear Red Sands havent handled things very well, and again as Mrs A says you wouldnt 
expect the insurance company to add to an already stressful time. But overall, although I do 
genuinely sympathise with the situation Mrs A found herself in, and the impact it had on her, 
I do think £100 compensation is fair for the issues she experienced. 
Ive also noted Mrs As concerns about what she sees as Red Sands approach to always 
turn down claims until someone complaints. I can only consider this complaint, but if Mrs A 
wished to discuss this matter further, she could register her concerns with the 
Financial Conduct Authority.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mrs A £100 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman