DRN-2705837
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) allowed him to come off a 
repayment plan for his credit card. He says his financial situation failed to improve as a 
result.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mr H entered into a repayment plan with Barclays in 2010. He was paying around £100 per
month on a reduced interest rate. Around June 2014 Mr H requested to come off the plan.
Shortly after this, around September 2014 he was removed from the plan, meaning normal
terms and conditions, including interest rates, applied. Mr H begun using his card again, but
Barclays reduced his credit limit shortly after the card was reinstated from around £7,370 to
£4,050.
Following this, Mr H continued to make payments but also continued to use the card, so the
balance didnt reduce. In 2018 Mr H contacted Barclays to inform them he was in financial
difficulty and entered into another repayment plan.
Mr H says Barclays acted irresponsibly in allowing him to come out of the repayment plan in
2014.. He said he asked to come off the repayment plan as he needed access to money
available on his credit limit. But because Barclays reduced his limit, he couldnt access
additional funds, and he ended up paying a higher interest rate as a result.
Mr H said Barclays allowing him to come off the plan, and the higher interest rate he
incurred, resulted in his debt not reducing. He says if Barclays had carried out further checks
into his finances, they would have seen he was in financial difficulty at the time.
Barclays didnt agree they had acted irresponsibly in the way they managed Mr Hs account.
They said when Mr H requested to come out of the plan in 2014, the minimum repayment for
the remaining balance was no less than the monthly repayment on the plan. And as they
saw nothing to suggest this couldnt be maintained, they removed the temporary block on
Mr Hs card and reduced his credit limit. They said Mr H continued to maintain at least the
minimum payment each month, but accepted Mr Hs balance occasionally exceeded the
credit limit and caused over limit fees to be applied. Because of this Barclays refunded any
over limit fees applied in the six years prior to their final response (December 2019).
Mr H wasnt happy with Barclays response. So he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended Mr Hs complaint be upheld. She said it wouldve been
reasonable for Barclays to perform further checks before agreeing to remove his repayment
plan in 2014  and if they had, they would have seen Mr H was in financial difficulty. She
recommended Barclays calculate the interest paid by Mr H from June 2014 onwards and
refund him the difference between what he paid, and what he wouldve paid if he remained
on the plan.
Barclays said Mr H demonstrated he was able to make payments for four years while on the
plan, and after he returned to contractual payments as normal his minimum payment was
less than the amount he was paying on the plan. They said Mr H was also able to meet his
contractual payments after this, so didnt agree with our investigator. They requested the
matter be put to an ombudsman.
The complaint then passed to me.
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on 11 March 2021 In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points. I want to assure him Ive considered all of them but Im
going to focus my provisional findings on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I
dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my
role in it.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I know this will be
disappointing, but Ill explain why.
Mr H had been on the plan for around four years by 2014. He had met the agreed payments
during this time and the minimum payments now fell below the amount he was paying each
month on the plan. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to conclude it was
affordable.
It wasnt a new application or a request to increase the credit limit, and Mr Hs credit limit
was reduced to reflect the amount of arrears he had remaining. So Mr H wasnt being put in
a position where the amount of debt he had accrued on the card would potentially increase.
So I dont think Barclays reasonably needed to do more checks.
Mr H requested to come off the plan and I can see Barclays wrote to him in June 2014 to
inform him that when the plan was removed, interest would be charged at the standard rate.
So he was aware the interest rate would increase as part of coming off the plan.
I appreciate Mr H feels hes been disadvantaged by coming off the plan because of the
higher interest rate. But repayment plans are not usually intended to be a permanent
measure  and this was under review once a year. So there was no guarantee he would
continue to benefit from a lower interest rate even if he had remained on the plan.
Barclays has refunded all over the limit fees over a period of six years, meaning this goes
back to when Mr H was originally on the plan, and before he requested to come off of it. So I
think theyve acted reasonably. And Im not intending to direct them to do any more.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Barclays responded to say they accepted my provisional findings.
Mr H didnt agree with my provisional findings. He provided several comments and reiterated 
several of his points. The key points Mr H wanted to reiterate were: Mr H asked to come out of the plan to be able to access available credit on his card 
and as he wasnt able, because Barclays removed the credit, he doesnt feel he was 
treated fairly
Barclays acted irresponsibly by taking Mr H off the plan without carrying out further 
checks
He ended up on another plan later which he says was inevitable because Barclays 
didnt do further checks
Mr H would have paid back everything he owed if he had remained on the plan
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this means a lot to Mr H. And I appreciate me reaching a different outcome to 
our investigator in my provisional findings would come as a disappointment. I want to assure 
him Ive considered everything he has said, both in the file and in his response, but having 
done so, it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
Mr H had been on the plan for around four years by 2014. He had met the agreed payments
during this time and the minimum payments now fell below the amount he was paying each
month on the plan. The fact alone Mr H was on a repayment plan isnt necessarily an 
indicator he would be unable to make the repayments when the plan ended and the 
information available to Barclays showed he was consistently meeting the agreed payments.  
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to conclude it was affordable.
If Mr H was being put in a position where the amount of debt, he had accrued on the card 
would potentially increase again, It might have been reasonable for Barclays to carry out 
further checks. But this wasnt the case. It wasnt a new lending application or a request to 
increase the credit limit. Mr Hs credit limit was reduced to reflect the affordability of his 
outstanding balance he had remaining. So I dont think Barclays reasonably needed to do 
more checks.
Mr H said he asked to come off the plan so he could access the funds in his account. I can 
see from notes provided from the time Mr H requested a new card. But I cant see anything 
that persuades me Mr H discussed this specifically with Barclays. The terms and conditions 
of the card say Barclays can reduce the credit limit without notice where appropriate. So I 
dont think Barclays acted unreasonably.
So I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman