DRN-3347777
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK plc wont refund to him the money that he paid for a car. 
What happened
Mr H used his Santander debit card to pay £4,305 for a car that he bought at auction in 
December 2020. He says that he became aware of some issues with the car in January 
2021 and it was inspected by a garage in February 2021. The garage identified some faults 
with the car so, in March 2021, Mr H asked Santander to refund the payment that hed made 
for the car. Santander asked him to provide more information about his claim, including the 
date that the car was returned. 
Mr H hadnt returned the car and Santander told him in April 2021 that the claim was outside 
of the timescale for a chargeback claim. It also said that it had reviewed the dispute as if it 
was in time and the car had been returned, but the terms of the invoice and the merchants 
terms and conditions indicated that his claim wouldnt have been considered by Santander. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that, 
because Santander didnt have the additional information it needed, it was unable to submit 
Mr Hs dispute in time. He also said that Santander wouldnt have been obligated to process 
the chargeback if it was made in time and he considered that Santander would have acted 
fairly by not taking the dispute further.
Mr H had also complained about the way that he was dealt with when he visited a Santander 
branch about his claim. Santander had offered the branch managers sincere apologies for 
the experience and it credited £200 to Mr Hs account for the inconvenience caused and as 
an apology. Our investigator thought that £200 was reasonable compensation for Mr Hs 
experience.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that hes 
been unjustly treated and is the victim of a fraud. He says that the car wasnt just dangerous 
but it was illegal for it to be sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made, but if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made;
the scheme rules set out the disputes that can be considered and the time limits for 
making a claim and I consider that the applicable time limit for making a chargeback 
claim about Mr Hs car was 120 days after he bought the car;
I consider that Mr H would have needed to have returned the car within that time 
period for a claim to have been successful  otherwise he would have both the car 
and the money that hed paid for it which wouldnt be fair or reasonable;
Mr H made a claim to Santander in March 2021 and nine days later it asked him to 
provide more information so that it could look into his claim, including the date that 
the car was returned  but Mr H hadnt returned the car and didnt provide Santander 
with the information so it wasnt able to look into his claim;
Mr H spoke with Santander in April 2021 but by then the 120 day period had ended 
and Santander was no longer able to make a chargeback claim;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Santander has acted 
incorrectly in relation to Mr Hs chargeback claim and I dont consider that there was 
any reasonable prospect of a chargeback claim being successful if Mr H hadnt 
returned the car - and its clear that he hadnt returned the car within the 120 day 
period;
Mr H has explained the reasons that he hadnt returned the car but I consider that it 
would be reasonable to expect him to have done more to try to return the car before 
a chargeback claim could be made;
Santander said that it had also reviewed the dispute as if it was made in time and the 
car had been returned, but it said that the terms of the invoice and the merchants 
terms and conditions indicated that it wouldnt have considered Mr Hs claim  having 
reviewed those documents I dont consider that there would have been a reasonable 
prospect of any such claim being successful as its more likely than not that any claim 
would have been contested by the merchant on the basis of those documents;
I sympathise with Mr H for the issues that he has with the car but Im not persuaded 
that hes been unjustly treated by Santander, or that hes provided enough evidence 
to show that hes been the victim of a fraud or that the car was illegally sold to him;
Santander has accepted that there were issues with the customer service that Mr H 
received when he visited a branch about his claim  it says that the branch manager 
offered his sincere apologies for the experience and it credited £200 to Mr Hs 
account for the inconvenience caused and as an apology  I consider the apology 
and the £200 that was credited to Mr Hs account to be a fair and reasonable 
response to those issues and Im not persuaded that a higher amount of 
compensation is justified; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Santander to refund to Mr H the payment that he made for the car, to pay him any 
further compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman