DRN-2929655
The complaint
This is a complaint that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold Miss T payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me.
When I looked at the case, I reached the same overall decision as the adjudicator. However, 
I had considered further evidence sent to us by Miss T, and Id relied in part on evidence not 
mentioned by the adjudicator (in particular documents relating to the 2008 mortgage 
application). So I decided to write a provisional decision, and invite everyone to comment 
further. In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
My current intention is to not uphold this complaint.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of 
the complaint.
Miss T has said she was not aware she had taken out the PPI. She says she did not 
ask for PPI. She says she was a first-time buyer and simply signed where she was 
told by the bank adviser, without an explanation of what the signatures were for. It 
was only in 2013, when she queried payments going out of her bank account on 
direct debit, that she discovered she had been paying PPI, and she immediately 
cancelled it. 
Miss T took out a mortgage on a new property in 2008 and the PPI was adjusted to 
cover the new loan. Miss T has sent us a copy of correspondence from 2008, from 
the RBS home insurance section, and an RBS life insurance company, confirming 
that she had cancelled both insurances. She says this is proof that RBS adds 
insurance products without the customers consent. She says she was not notified 
about PPI and any option to cancel it.
I can see that it is completely possible that someone could be rushed into signing 
documents, and that an unscrupulous bank adviser could try to slip in an application 
for insurance that wasnt wanted. But I have to bear in mind that this did happen 
about 16 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember all the 
details of what happened during the usually fraught process of applying for a 
mortgage and buying a house. And it wouldnt be fair to make RBS prove it didnt do 
something wrong, especially when it was so long ago  instead, fairly, I would need 
reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do something wrong. And I cant 
say that there is that kind of evidence.
I have no doubt at all that Miss T is giving an honest account of what she 
remembers. However, there is information which does suggest she may have 
forgotten part of what happened, and may have agreed to take PPI at the time. There 
are, first, the signed documents showing she applied for PPI  although, I can accept 
this doesnt mean she was aware of what she was signing (although she did have 
some responsibility in that regard).
But there is also evidence to suggest that Miss T was aware that she was confirming 
that she wanted PPI in 2008, even though she now only remembers discovering it, 
and cancelling it, in 2013.
I say this because Ive looked at documents from the application process in both the 
2005 and 2008 applications. I can see that, in March 2008, RBS wrote to Miss T with 
its offer of a mortgage and one part of the letter said:
Please check the enclosed quotation for Mortgage Loanguard Payment Protection 
before you complete and sign the direct debit instruction. You should return this with 
the Giving Your Agreement form.
I can see that Miss T not only filled in and signed that direct debit form (one for the 
mortgage and one for payment for PPI to Royal Bank Insurance Services), she also 
returned the offer letter itself making a handwritten note on it, along with a covering 
letter. This referred to the fact she needed the mortgage amount reducing, and the 
higher lending fee removed, as she was now paying a higher deposit. This suggests 
she examined the contents relatively carefully.
And there is a tick against I want to apply for Mortgage Loanguard through The 
Royal Bank of Scotland but, immediately below this, against the place for ticking for 
home insurance, she has written will decide on my provider when property is 
available in July 2008.
So, I do think she was aware, at least in 2008, that she was applying for PPI.
And, in the 2005 application, the direct debit for home insurance had written on it 
*NOT TAKING* but the direct debit for PPI was signed by Miss T. This again 
suggests that there was some discussion and thought about insurance, even if she 
doesnt now remember that; and that Miss T was making a deliberate decision.
So, although I accept that Miss T is now sure the PPI was added without her proper 
agreement, I cant fairly rely on her recollections to find in her favour. And I dont 
have other strong enough evidence to fairly say RBS acted wrongly in the way the 
PPI was started.
Ive checked for other possible ways in which the PPI might have been mis-sold, but 
Ive decided they dont apply in this case. Ill explain why.
I dont think RBS recommended the PPI to Miss T, in the sense of making her believe 
it had carried out an assessment of her insurance needs, or had told her that PPI was suitable for her particular circumstances. Theres no indication in the documents 
that it was suggesting it had done that kind of assessment. Instead it was promoting 
PPI as something worth considering  as it was entitled to do.
But, even if it had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in Miss Ts circumstances at the time. It is true that, for many people 
taking out certain kinds of borrowing, PPI could be of questionable value. But finding 
yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. This PPI would 
have paid benefits at the same time as Miss T received any employer sick pay, and 
potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when she would need to fall back 
on any savings or other means she may have had for paying the mortgage and other 
living costs. This all would have put Miss T in a more secure position, if shed 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not 
been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when she took it out.
The monthly price of the policy was shown on the documents. So I think RBS acted 
reasonably in telling Miss T how much it would cost.
Its possible RBS didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But 
its unlikely Miss T would have been affected by any of these.
RBS didnt comment further. Miss T made a number of points and provided copies of some 
more documents relating to her mortgage applications, and related matters, in 2005 and 
2008. Several of the points were ones she had already made. But to give a sense of what 
Miss T is saying, Ive summarised the main new points here. Miss T says:
She is now providing further evidence that RBS was inconsistent in its procedures.  
She says this shows there were significant shortcomings.
She does not see why it would not be fair to require RBS to prove it didnt do 
something wrong.
An audit letter from RBS of September 2005 clearly proves failings in the process. 
(Miss T says this audit letter was not picked up by me as I would have cancelled 
immediately.) The letter, a copy of which Miss T has sent me, says:
I am writing in connection with your Mortgage Loanguard Policy that was 
issued in conjunction with your Royal Bank of Scotland mortgage, which 
completed on 30/03/2005. 
A recent audit has revealed, that whilst a policy schedule was issue to you, it 
is unclear whether you received a policy booklet. This is now enclosed and 
should be kept with your policy schedule. 
(Miss T says she has no record of receiving the policy schedule.) 
It doesnt agree she had forgotten she had the PPI. Although she also says that 
does not make any sense  as I would have considered utilising it when unemployed 
had I known I had it 
She never received paperwork relating to PPI. All the versions she had for her first 
mortgage are unsigned. Yes I agree I will have examined the information in a fair amount of detail [but] you 
are blinded by the paperwork and processes 
Your quotation on p2 of your response Please check the enclosed is therefore 
contradicted by my non-completed version. By not receiving this paperwork at the 
time fundamentally impacted my ability to cancel the policy within the cooling off 
period, as my records would lead me to believe I hadnt got the additional product(s) 
especially when not receiving any further correspondence, that it said it would send it 
that was the case. I was just busy living my nave life as a young first time 
homeowner.
She does not agree that she knowingly agreed to PPI in 2008 and why was she not 
given the same cooling off period in 2005.
I do not also understand why you should reach the opinion it was appropriate for me 
to have taken out PPI. That is not an objective but subjective viewpoint. My evidence 
that I never took income protection out on any financial agreement substantiates that 
personal stance. Your paragraph is contradictory as I was unemployed in 2009 and 
2011 and it was not utilised.
The documents she has sent are evidence RBS were inconsistent, when refinancing 
this mortgage in 2008 they didnt make clear mortgage loanguard in any of the 
correspondence and isnt expressed in any financial terms to query it. They also 
messed up the interest rate agreed and made several errors on my account, which 
we eventually resolved. This brings into doubt your stance that Building Society 
couldnt possibly be at fault some16 years ago. My experience and evidence says 
they do/did make mistakes and I conclude this corroborates everything I have said.
She has sent me enclosures showing my financial history going back to 1999  
where I have taken loans and never once took up income protection (which was a 
term I more commonly understood) and on each occasion they clearly provide a 
cooling off period. Why was this right not afford to me on this occasion? That is the 
crux, as had I got paperwork clearly explaining this  I would have had the option to 
remedy it a lot sooner.
The evidence she has provided, demonstrates you cannot guarantee the process 
was completed to the expected standards and therefore should be found in my 
favour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the points Miss T has made, but Ive decided to confirm my 
decision not to uphold this complaint. 
Miss T asks why it would not be fair to require RBS to prove it didnt do something wrong. 
My reason for saying this is because of a long-established principle. This is that, when 
someone accuses another person (or organisation) of doing something wrong, the accuser 
has to provide good evidence that it really happened. It wouldnt be fair to make someone 
prove that they were innocent of wrongdoing. This might be different if, say, a regulator puts a positive duty on an organisation to keep 
proof that it has carried out certain procedures or to keep certain documents indefinitely. But 
this wasnt the situation in the circumstances of Miss Ts case. 
Miss T is saying that RBS did something wrong, and caused her a loss, by adding PPI 
without her knowledge or consent. So the burden is then on her to bring evidence, to show 
that this is likely to be true  on the balance of probabilities. I realise this is very difficult for 
her so many years later. But I still have to do what is fair. 
My view is that Miss T hasnt brought evidence to show that RBS added the PPI without her 
knowledge or consent. Just because RBS hasnt produced certain documents from the time, 
doesnt in itself prove that Miss Ts belief is accurate. 
And other inaccuracies that may have happened in procedures dont, in themselves, prove 
that the PPI was added without consent. 
I have not put the audit letter evidence to RBS  it hasnt been necessary for me to do that 
to reach my decision. But I can see that RBS might argue that its letter of September 2005 
supports its view that it was diligent in trying to follow correct procedures  and that it 
immediately notified its customers when it thought it might have made a mistake. 
And, despite Miss T saying she only discovered the PPI in 2013, the evidence from the 2008 
sales does suggest she is likely to have been aware of the PPI when applying for her 
mortgage. As I said in my provisional decision:
I can see that Miss T not only filled in and signed that direct debit form (one for the 
mortgage and one for payment for PPI to Royal Bank Insurance Services), she also 
returned the offer letter itself making a handwritten note on it, along with a covering 
letter. This referred to the fact she needed the mortgage amount reducing, and the 
higher lending fee removed, as she was now paying a higher deposit. This suggests 
she examined the contents relatively carefully.
And there is a tick against I want to apply for Mortgage Loanguard through The 
Royal Bank of Scotland but, immediately below this, against the place for ticking for 
home insurance, she has written will decide on my provider when property is 
available in July 2008.
So this does case doubt on Miss Ts belief that the first she was aware she had ever taken 
PPI was in 2013. 
I would just like to clarify that I didnt say that it was appropriate for [Miss T] to have taken 
out PPI. Instead I said that, if RBS did make a recommendation of the PPI, it would have 
been an appropriate recommendation. I said this because recommending something that 
was inappropriate for the customers needs, would usually amount to a mis-sale. So I 
needed to check that (although its most probably RBS didnt actually make a 
recommendation of that kind). 
Once a bank has made an appropriate recommendation, it is then still for the customer to 
decide whether it is what they want. 
My overall conclusion is that I dont have good evidence that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Miss T has said she was unemployed in 2009 and 2011. She may wish to enquire with RBS 
or the underwriters, to see whether she can make a backdated claim. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman