DRN-3199564
The complaint
Mr R complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) reduced the credit limit 
on his account significantly without explaining why.
  
What happened
Mr R has a credit card account with Creation. Hes had the account for some time and says
he has never missed or been late with a payment. The credit limit on the account was
£9,500. In January 2021, Creation reduced it to £500.
It wrote to Mr R to tell him this had happened. When he received the letter, Mr R called
Creation to query the decision. This conversation prompted various calls and emails from Mr
R to Creation as he tried to get to the bottom of why his credit limit had been reduced. He
says he was told initially that there was an issue with his credit score, so he obtained his
scores from both the Credit Reference Agencies Creation said it used. He says the scores
came back as excellent and good. Mr R says that, when he pointed this out to Creation, it
said its decision was based on its internal lending criteria, but it wouldnt provide any details.
Mr R couldnt understand why Creation had reduced his credit limit, especially by so much.
He says the Creation card is his main credit card and he uses it for work. He complained to
Creation and asked it to reinstate the credit limit of £9,500. Creation said it couldnt do that. It
said the decision to decrease the credit limit wasnt based solely on how Mr Rs account had
been maintained, or on his credit score. It said it couldnt say what criteria was used to make
the decision, but that the decision couldnt be revisited.
Mr R wasnt happy with Creations response and brought his complaint to this service. Our
Investigator asked Creation for information supporting its decision to reduce the credit limit.
But Creation didnt provide it. So our Investigator couldnt conclude that Creation had treated 
Mr R fairly. He recommended that Creation put Mr Rs credit limit back to £9,500.
Creation accepted our Investigators view that it didnt act fairly when reducing the credit 
limit. But it said it couldnt increase it because the amount of credit it provides to a customer 
is a decision to be made by Creation, in line with its terms and conditions and its internal 
lending procedure.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2021. I provisionally upheld the complaint. 
But, rather than direct Creation to increase the credit limit, I provisionally directed it to pay 
compensation of £150 to Mr R. Creation agreed with the provisional decision. But Mr R was 
disappointed that his credit limit would remain at £500. He suggested an alternative outcome 
whereby Creation pays some compensation to him on a monthly basis until it resolves the 
issue with the credit limit, presumably by increasing it. 
Now that Ive heard back from the parties, Im making a final decision on this complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything again and Ive carefully considered Mr Rs comments on the 
provisional decision. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but I havent changed my mind about the 
appropriate outcome here. Ive explained the reasons for my decision below. 
Im satisfied that Creation was entitled to decrease the credit limit on Mr Rs account. But it 
needed to act fairly and reasonably in doing so. As I explained in my provisional decision, I 
cant conclude that it acted fairly here. Thats because I havent seen any information about 
why it reduced the credit limit, the information it used, the factors it considered or the 
procedures it followed. I havent been provided with any further information about this since 
issuing my provisional decision. So my thoughts on this havent changed and Im going to 
uphold this complaint. Ill now consider what Creation needs to do to put things right.
Mr R is disappointed that his credit limit is still £500. He would like it to be higher. Ive 
thought about what he said about this. But Creation was entitled to reduce the credit limit. It 
doesnt have to lend and, where it does, its Creations decision who it lends to and on what 
basis. Im not aware of any financial loss or hardship to Mr R as a result of the credit limit 
decreasing. So Im not going to ask Creation to increase the credit limit. And Im not going to 
ask it to pay compensation to Mr R on an ongoing basis until it increases the credit limit, as I 
think the effect of that would be to punish Creation for not increasing the credit limit, in 
circumstances where it doesnt have to.
But Creation needs to do something to recognise the impact of its decision on Mr R and the 
way it dealt with the situation. The factors Ive taken into account include the lack of 
information from Creation, the fact that the decrease was so significant, the fact that Mr R 
has had to make other arrangements to pay for things which he would usually have paid for 
with the Creation card and the trouble he was put to obtaining credit scores and liaising with 
Creation, only for it to say it wouldnt review the decision about the credit limit.
In the circumstances here, I still think that £150 is a fair amount of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Creation Financial 
Services Limited should pay compensation of £150 to Mr R.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman