DRN-2327976
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly declined some
repairs to their drains following a claim made under their home insurance policy.
All references to Lloyds include their appointed agents.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr and Mrs O told Lloyds about some cracking which had appeared in
their property. They submitted a claim for subsidence, and Lloyds appointed a contractor to
investigate the cause of the damage.
The contractor visited the property and said more investigations were needed to determine
the cause of the damage. An arborist was appointed to check the soil and surrounding
vegetation, and the drains were surveyed.
During the investigation, it was determined the subsidence was being caused as a result of
tree roots in the soil. It was also determined that the drains werent contributing to the
subsidence damage. However, the drains survey highlighted some issues and a second
claim was set up for Lloyds to consider this damage.
Lloyds considered the claim and accepted liability for one of the drains under the accidental
damage section of the policy. But it said the remaining drains were damaged as a result of
wear and tear, so it couldnt consider these repairs as they were excluded under the policy.
Mr and Mrs O complained about Lloyds decision to decline part of their claim. They said
they had been told that all of the drains would be covered under the accidental damage
section of their policy. Lloyds responded to Mr and Mrs O and maintained its position. It gave
Mr and Mrs O the option to cancel the claim and get the excess refunded. Lloyds offered
Mr and Mrs O £50 for the confusion caused on the claim, and a further £50 because it hadnt
been made clear that only one of the drains would be covered under the claim.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr and Mrs O complained to our service. Our investigator
looked at everything and recommended Lloyds needed to do more to compensate
Mr and Mrs O. She found it was reasonable for Lloyds to investigate the drains as part of its
investigation into the subsidence claim. And she found it had assessed the claim fairly based
on the report provided. But she said the information given to Mr and Mrs O at the start of the
claim caused them additional distress, and recommended Lloyds pay them an additional
£200 for this.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed with our investigators opinion. They said the main reason for the
complaint was because they were told verbally the drains would be covered and wanted
Lloyds to honour this, or cover any future damage caused by the drains. Mr and Mrs O
added theyd been told by the drains specialist that the drains not covered by the policy
arent in need of immediate repair and may last forever. They also said there wasnt a need
to investigate the drains as it had already been decided tree roots were causing subsidence.
Lloyds also disagreed with our investigators recommendations. It said the drains had been
inspected in line with the contractors protocol for subsidence claims. It said it had notified
Mr and Mrs O of which drains would be covered under the claim and felt its total offer of
£100 compensation was fair.
The complaint was passed to me and on 22 October 2020, I set out in my provisional 
decision why I felt Lloyds didnt need to do anything further in relation to this complaint. Ive 
repeated an extract below:
Mr and Mrs O have said Lloyds didnt need to examine the drains as the cause of
subsidence had already been determined. I understand their position here. But based on the
evidence Ive seen I dont think this was an unreasonable course of action for Lloyds to take.
Lloyds has confirmed that it is routine for its contractors to examine drains as part of the
investigations into subsidence. And it is possible for there to be more than one cause of
damage in a claim such as subsidence. So I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to survey the
drains  in essence to rule out any additional damage, repairs, or monitoring that could be
linked to the subsidence claim.
I note that Mr and Mrs O arent disputing the damage thats been found in the drains  their
main concern here is that they were told it would be covered and it now isnt. Ive not seen
anything to dispute Mr and Mrs Os version of events here, so Im persuaded its likely they
were initially led to believe any damage found would be covered. So Ive next considered
how Lloyds reported this damage to Mr and Mrs O and the impact this had.
Mr and Mrs O are concerned with the content of the letter from the subsidence specialist
which reported the damage to their drains. Theyve highlighted the letter says that if they
dont repair the drains they may be liable for future damage. And I appreciate why they may
be concerned about this and feel the content of the letter is threatening. Ive read the letter
and Im satisfied it gives a factual account of the claim and damage to the drains. Im also
persuaded Mr and Mrs O were given enough information in the letter to make a decision on
whether to claim. So Im not going to make Lloyds do anything further with regard to the
content of the letter.
Mr and Mrs O say that if theyd been told from the outset that only one of the drains was
covered, they could have accepted this. But I dont think it would be reasonable to require
Lloyds to now cover all of the drain repairs based on a conversation which took place before
it had seen the drains report or determined if the damage caused was an insured event. Ive
seen a copy of the drains report and based on the contents Im persuaded Lloyds has
considered Mr and Mrs Os claim fairly. It accepted the damage which falls under an
insurable event on the policy (accidental damage), and it has shown the exclusion for wear
and tear applies to the remaining drains. But on reviewing the evidence I accept Lloyds
could have been clearer in how it communicated this decision to Mr and Mrs O.
Ive considered the timeline of events and whether Lloyds actions as a whole caused any
avoidable delays. Ive also considered the impact to Mr and Mrs O upon finding that only one
of the drains would be covered under the claim when they were led to believe it would be
fully covered. Having done so, I havent seen any evidence of avoidable delays during the
course of the claim. It appears Lloyds responded to Mr and Mrs Os concerns and carried
out further investigations with its contractors to determine if the drain claim should be
accepted. This seems a proportionate response to the issues raised by Mrs and Mrs O.I think Lloyds failure to clearly communicate the situation with the drains did have an impact
on Mr and Mrs O. But it seems to have taken a matter of weeks for Lloyds to put the matter
right in regard to its position on the claim  the report was provided to Mr and Mrs O in late
February, they raised the claim and a decision was made by Lloyds in early March. Lloyds
then confirmed its position on the claim a few weeks later. So I think Lloyds offer of £100 for
the confusion caused is fair and reasonable here, and I wont require it to compensate
Mr and Mrs O further.
Developments
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add to my 
findings. 
Mrs O also responded. She said it was inferred from my decision that Lloyds didnt know 
about the full situation with the drains when they claimed, but it did know everything  and 
had all the information to hand when it accepted the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Os response and will clarify my position on this point. From what Ive 
seen, the information Mrs O is referring to was sitting with Lloyds contractor who had been 
appointed to oversee the subsidence claim, and not with the insurer. I can see from Lloyds 
contact notes that once Mr and Mrs O raised concerns about the direction of the claim, it 
then reviewed the report alongside the drains specialist, and made the decision to cover one 
of the drains. I cant see that as the insurer, it made a decision to cover the drains before it 
had reviewed the report  even though its likely Mr and Mrs O were told verbally this would 
be covered. But as Ive already said, I agree Lloyds could have communicated better to     
Mr and Mrs O here to avoid confusion.
So having considered all the information again, Ive seen nothing to change my mind about 
what Ive decided. And as there is no new evidence for me consider, my final decision will be 
made on the same lines as already set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds offer of compensation is 
reasonable, and I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman