DRN-4068181
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Arrow Global Limited has dealt with his account.
What happened
Mr G makes a number of complaints about the management of his account which are well 
known to the parties. In summary he says Arrow has mismanaged his account and has 
caused him distress and anxiety in pursuing his debt.
Arrow doesnt accept Mr Gs complaints but accepts not responding to Mr Gs letter in 2022. 
It has apologised for that mistake and paid £50 compensation.
Mr G brought his complaint to us, and our investigator came to the overall view that Arrow 
should no longer pursue this debt. The investigator thought Arrow had bought the debt in 
2013 for just over £10,000 and some nine years later Mr G still owed £9,900. He thought it 
unfair for Mr G to continue making token payments.
Arrow doesnt accept that view and says Mr Gs circumstances may change and it is entitled 
to pursue this debt.
Mr G accepts that view.
I asked Mr G for more detailed information about his finances and medical position which he 
has now provided. In summary Mr G has provided medical evidence providing a diagnosis of 
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and evidence of disability benefits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Arrow should buy back this debt, as it 
appears to have sold it whilst this complaint is being dealt with, and write off the balance. 
Our general position in complaints of this type is to conclude that a business is entitled to 
pursue a debt where it is fair and reasonable to do so. We consider if as here there is a solid 
contractual basis for that debt to be pursued and accept that a customers position can 
change through a number of different circumstances. We also consider the rules set out by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (CONC 7.2 and 7.3) in dealing with those with mental health 
problems and other medical issues. Those rules say that a creditor should consider writing 
off a debt where there are long term mental health conditions with little likelihood of 
improvement and where it is highly unlikely that the debt can be repaid.
I appreciate that both sides provide conflicting views of the management of Mr Gs account. 
In the light of my decision here I dont need to consider those arguments or make a decision 
on them.
Im satisfied having looked carefully at Mr Gs medical evidence and evidence of the type of 
benefits he receives, that he has clear long term health issues. Im satisfied that he has been 
diagnosed with PTSD as well as an anxiety disorder and has been out of work for over 20 
years. He is 54 years of age and I think on balance that its highly unlikely that his health 
position or job prospects are likely to improve. It is also clear that he is and has been for 
many years in financial difficulties which show no prospect of improving. I can see from Mr 
Gs medical letter that he has suffered from some of the medical problems for over 15 years 
and has been prescribed medication.
So, Im satisfied that, whilst Arrow is owed money by Mr G, it would be unfair for it to 
continue to pursue the debt in these circumstances and where Im satisfied there is no 
realistic prospect of his position improving. Im also satisfied that this complaint meets the 
criteria for us to make, what I accept is, the unusual decision to make such an order. I also 
consider that in the last 10 years the debt has reduced by a minimal amount.
Putting things right
Arrow should buy back the debt if it has sold it and write off the balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Arrow Global Limited to buy 
back Mr Gs debt and write it off, no longer pursuing him for it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman