DRN-3194952
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has declined a claim 
she made on her employers group income protection scheme. 
What happened
Mrs T is the beneficiary of her employers group income protection scheme. In February 
2020 she submitted a claim on the income protection scheme. In her claim form she 
explained that shed been under a lot of stress following a recent bereavement and this had 
caused her chronic pain to flare up. Her employers notification of absence says that she first 
became absent from work in January 2020. The policy had a deferred period of 26 weeks. 
In November 2020 Legal and General declined the claim on the basis that Mrs T didnt meet 
the policy definition of incapacity. Mrs T appealed but Legal and General maintained their 
decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mrs T complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. Having considered the available evidence 
she didnt think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to have declined the claim. She 
said that Legal and General had fairly relied on a functional capacity assessment which 
concluded that Mrs Ts symptoms werent in line with the ability she demonstrated. In 
relation to Mrs Ts anxiety and depression she said that there wasnt clinical reasoning to 
support the GPs conclusion that Mrs T couldnt work. 
Mrs T didnt agree and provided further evidence which she says demonstrates shes not 
well enough to work. This included more recent medical evidence. Our investigator said that 
the further evidence didnt change her thoughts about the outcome of the complaint as she 
didnt think that they demonstrated Mrs T met the policy definition of incapacity. Mrs T asked 
an ombudsman to review her complaint as she said the symptoms she experiences make it 
impossible for her to work and that they have a massive effect on her mental health. She 
explained that she is suffering from severe depression. So, I now need to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
In order to make a successful claim its for Mrs T to demonstrate that she met the policy 
definition of incapacity. Its not for Legal and General to demonstrate that she doesnt. The 
policy definition of incapacity in the schedule of insurance is own occupation. Thats defined 
in the policy as:
The insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the 
deferred period.  
I appreciate that Mrs T has had a difficult time since her bereavement in 2019. And I have a 
lot of empathy for her circumstances based on what shes said about her medical conditions 
and the impact on her mental health. However, Im not upholding this complaint as I think 
Legal and General fairly declined the claim. Ill explain why. 
Due to the nature of the physical symptoms Mrs T was reporting Legal and General referred 
the case for a Functional Capacity Assessment (FCA). The appointment took place in 
October 2020 with an osteopath who was an accredited FCA assessor. In the report he 
concluded that: 
a comparison between the results of the FCE (Functional Capacity Examination) and 
her self-reported essential and substantial physical demands of her job indicate that 
she is fit to return to her normal role as a [redacted] on a part time basis of 16 or 
indeed 18 hours per week.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to rely on the opinion of a suitably 
qualified expert when declining the claim for this reason. 
Ive also taken into account the relevant information Legal and General had in relation to 
Mrs Ts mental health at the time the claim was rejected. Whilst Mrs T provided evidence 
from her GP about her mental health it didnt include a detailed clinical reasoning for 
concluding that she wasnt fit to work for this reason. And it didnt comment in appropriate 
detail on why she was unable to perform the essential duties of her occupation. Furthermore, 
it was based on Mrs Ts reporting of her condition. 
Im satisfied that Legal and General fairly considered Mrs Ts appeal including the further 
information from her consultant rheumatologist, her GP and occupational health. Legal and 
General gave a detailed reasons why this further information didnt change their thoughts 
about the outcome of Mrs Ts claim. In summary, they said no formal diagnosis had been 
made by the consultant, exercise was recommended, no new medication was recommended 
and she was subsequently discharged. Legal and General also highlighted that the 
occupational health team had deemed Mrs T unfit to work but discussed a return with shorter 
hours. And they said that the other information from the GP hadnt commented on Mrs Ts 
fitness to work, functionality or a referral for support with her psychological symptoms. Thats 
consistent with the medical evidence Ive been provided with and I think those were 
reasonable conclusions to draw from the available evidence. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Legal and General to maintain their decision to decline the claim.
In response to our investigators opinion Mrs T highlighted the opinion set out in an 
occupational health report which her symptoms would be likely to continue for more than 12 
months, her impairment was long term and that she was currently unfit to return to work. Ive 
reviewed the report that Mrs T referred to and the comments she has made about it. I also 
bear in mind that its one piece of evidence which forms part of a wider picture. And I dont 
think it is unreasonable for Legal and General to place more weight on the FCA which gives 
a more detailed insight into Mrs Ts functional capability in the workplace. The occupational 
health report relies on Mrs Ts reporting of her condition whereas the FCA has explored her 
functional capacity in more detail. 
Mrs T has provided further, more recent, information about her physical and mental health 
which Ive also taken into account. This further information hasnt changed my thoughts 
about the overall outcome of this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. Mrs T was referred for a Cardiology appointment following suspected arrythmia and long 
Covid. The consultant discharged Mrs T and noted that the symptoms may be related to 
underlying anxiety. He acknowledged that they may or may not be related to long Covid and 
discharged Mrs T. I also understand that Mrs T has been diagnosed with 
fibromyalgia/chronic fatigue syndrome and early osteoarthritis. Mrs Ts consultant has 
recently suggested Cognitive Behavioural Therapy. And in his letter he noted that she had 
an element of early osteoarthritis and suggested a possible link with menopause. Mrs T has 
also had an investigation which concluded there were some minor lung changes at both lung 
bases. The consultant said it could be consistent with very early pulmonary fibrosis or could 
be a simple dependent changes of no significance. Mrs T is due to have a follow up scan in 
2022. 
Having reviewed this further evidence I dont think it provides any further detailed or 
meaningful insight into how Mrs Ts conditions impacted upon her ability to do the essential 
duties of her occupation. Its not disputed that Mrs T is under the care of various consultants 
and has ongoing health issues. But Id need to be satisfied that Legal and General had 
unfairly concluded Mrs T was unable to do the essential duties of her occupation at the end 
of the deferred period. The further evidence is much more recent and it also doesnt 
comment upon Mrs Ts functional capacity in any further detail. So, it hasnt changed my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. 
Mrs T also queried what evidence she needs to provide from her medical team which would 
lead to a satisfactory outcome. She felt our investigator had disregarded this. Its not for our 
service to say what information would lead to a satisfactory outcome for Mrs T. My role is to 
determine whether Mrs Ts claim has been fairly declined by Legal and General, based on 
the relevant policy terms. Its not for our service to direct the parties to provide specific 
evidence which will lead to an outcome in their favour.
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman