DRN-3119912
Complaint
Mr and Mrs P, who are represented by a third party, have complained that Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies with two joint secured loans, taken out in October 2000 and March 
2001. 
Background
The policies included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. They also 
included life cover. Only Mr P was covered by each policy
Mr and Mrs P say they thought they had to take the policies to get the loan they wanted and 
they werent properly explained to them.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policies were mis-sold. Because Mr and Mrs P 
disagreed, their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P say they bought each of these policies at a meeting. BoS agrees and 
says it made a recommendation that Mr and Mrs P should buy the PPI in each case. 
That means BoS had to ensure that each policy was suitable for their circumstances 
and give them clear and not misleading information about them.
Ive looked at the paperwork from each sale that BoS has sent us. Ive seen that 
Mr P needed to sign separately on each of the loan application forms to confirm 
he wanted to take out PPI. If he didnt want it there was a different place for him 
to sign, but just as equally prominent on the form. To complete the loan 
paperwork Mr and Mrs P then both had to sign a personal loan agreement which 
set out the cost of the PPI separately to the loan.
All of this leads me to think that Mr and Mrs P knew or ought to have known that 
theyd agreed to take out each PPI policy and that it was their choice about 
whether or not to have them.
It seems to me that Mr P was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been 
adversely affected by the main exclusions. Mr P hasnt told us about being 
entitled to any benefits from his employer in the event that he was unable to work 
through accident or sickness, or were he to lose his job. However, the PPI would 
have paid out a benefit  the sum repayable each month under each loan 
agreement - for up to 60 months for an accident or sickness claim and was 
payable in addition to any employer benefits he might have received. The PPI 
would also have paid out in the event of unemployment for up to 12 months.
As Ive mentioned above, the initial cost of each policy was shown on the personal 
loan agreement that Mr and Mrs P signed to obtain these loans. So they ought to 
have been aware of the cost of the cover when they decided to buy each policy. And 
they havent  told us about any issues about finding the money to pay for it.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way these policies 
were sold but, having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr and Mrs P would still 
have decided to buy these policies if theyd been better advised and informed.
It follows that I dont think either of these PPI policies were mis-sold and so I wont be 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman