DRN-3213618
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that UIA (Insurance) Limited hasnt agreed to pay for work she had carried 
out to improve the ground conditions at her property during a subsidence claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mrs H has a home insurance policy to cover her property. She doesnt live there. Her 
son, Mr H, lives there and has represented her during the claim and complaint.
Mr H got in touch with UIA in 2017 to report crack damage to the property.
UIA accepted that some of the cracking was caused by subsidence  and this 
damage was covered by the policy.
It appointed a loss adjuster, S, who found the problem had been caused by defects in 
the drainage system. It arranged for the drains to be repaired in early 2018. It also 
setup crack monitoring and took readings over time.
In late 2019, S reviewed the monitoring. It thought the results had shown stability and 
it was appropriate to carry out repairs to the building. It scheduled the work it thought 
was required and settled the claim by paying cash to the value of the work.
In 2020, Mr H said the damage was getting worse. S arranged for further crack 
monitoring readings to be taken. It said this showed no significant movement.
Mr H remained concerned that the cracking was getting worse and questioned 
whether something should be done to improve the ground conditions.
It was agreed level monitoring would be set up and the readings used to assess 
whether the property was stable or not. Initially S appointed a company to do this but 
later offered to pay for a company of Mr Hs choosing.
In the meantime, Mr H provided a quotation from a company, G, to carry out work to 
improve the condition of the ground underneath the property. UIA didnt agree to pay 
for this work. It said it was unnecessary as the monitoring up to that point had shown 
the property to be stable. It maintained its offer to pay for level monitoring.
Mr H arranged for G to carry out the work and paid for it. He asked UIA to reimburse 
him the amount he paid. UIA thought the work was unnecessary, so it didnt agree to 
pay for it. And it didnt think level monitoring would be a productive exercise following 
Gs work.
Our investigator thought UIA had acted fairly. She agreed the crack monitoring hadnt 
shown movement. And she thought that offering to pay for level monitoring was 
reasonable as this exercise would have shown whether there was any movement at 
the property. She wasnt persuaded Mr H had shown there was a need to carry out 
Gs work in order to stabilise the property.
Mr H didnt think this was fair and made a number of points. In particular, he said:
oSome of the cracking hed pointed out hadnt been considered by UIA.
oThe crack monitoring had shown some movement.
oHed taken engineering advice which recommended he use G.
oAs a result of Gs work, existing cracks have closed and no new cracks have 
appeared, so it seemed to solve the problem.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive read and thought about everything said by both parties, I wont comment on all of 
it. Ill only comment on the points I consider to be relevant to the outcome of the complaint. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Another complaint has previously been made about Mrs Hs subsidence claim. It was about 
the advice given by UIA to replace the roof of the property. Thats been considered 
separately, so I wont consider or comment on it.
Ill focus on the complaint about whether the property was stable  and whether UIA should 
pay for the work carried out by G.
UIA accepted there was subsidence damage at the property and the cost of putting it right 
was covered by the policy. UIA had a duty to ensure the property was stabilised, so that a 
lasting and effective repair of the subsidence damage could be carried out.
S identified a number of defects in the drains and had them repaired. Doing that will often be 
sufficient to allow the ground to return to the way it was prior to the leak and regain stability. 
But sometimes it wont be, particularly where theres been a more significant or long-term 
leak. If repairing the drain alone isnt sufficient to provide stability, usually some kind of 
stabilisation work will be required to the ground or foundation.
So, Ive considered the available evidence to decide whether its been shown that the 
property hadnt regained stability and stabilisation work was required.
Mr H has provided reports to show the engineering advice he received. The first is from 
January 2020 by a company Ill call M. And the second in May 2021 by a different company 
Ill call R. Both are structural engineers.
M noted long term monitoring had been undertaken and that had led S to consider the 
movement had stopped. But M said it couldnt be sure movement had completely finished. It 
said: dependent on the results of the ground investigation, it may be possible to consider 
the use of [G] which could stabilize the foundations.
Its unclear what ground investigation that was, whether it was carried out, and if it was 
carried out, what it showed. But I think its fair to say M thought further investigation of some 
nature was required in order to be satisfied the property was stable. It noted the possibility of 
using G. But I dont think it went as far as to recommend it or to state that using G was the only or most effective way of achieving stability  it was merely something to consider, 
subject to the results of further investigation.
R noted the crack monitoring had shown no significant movement. However, it thought there 
had been recent cracking and it indicated this may be a sign that stability hadnt been 
achieved. It recommended further investigations to assess the ground conditions around the 
property. It said underpinning may be required dependent on what was found. I understand 
these investigations werent carried out.
In my view, M and R were broadly in agreement that the property might not be stable and 
further investigation would be required to find out. Both noted that some form of stabilisation 
work might be required, dependent on the results of the investigations.
S thought the property was stable. It relied on the results of the crack monitoring, which 
spanned around three years. It also compared photos it had taken at various visits to the 
property over the years. Whilst it noted some movement recorded in the monitoring and 
thought some of the cracks had grown slightly, it didnt consider this was evidence of 
significant movement or a lack of stability.
In my experience its common for most buildings if monitored to show some movement. But a 
modest amount of movement isnt usually considered a sign of ongoing subsidence or 
instability. The evidence provided by S doesnt suggest significant movement.
Whilst neither M nor R were satisfied the movement had completely stopped, neither 
committed to saying it was significant or ongoing or that stabilisation work was required. 
They both thought further investigation was wise. Although S was satisfied the movement 
had stopped, it was nonetheless prepared to pay for level monitoring. This is generally 
considered to be more precise than crack monitoring and an appropriate method of 
assessing stability. Given the uncertainty amongst the experts that movement had 
completely ceased, Im satisfied level monitoring was a reasonable suggestion.
In summary, the weight of engineering evidence above indicates to me that further 
investigation was needed to confirm stability. UIA had offered further investigation in the 
form of level monitoring, which I think was reasonable.
That didnt go ahead and Mr H arranged for G to carry out stabilisation work. And once that 
had been done, there was unlikely to be any benefit in level monitoring.
Ive looked at the information Mr H has provided from G. It says there was a subsidence 
problem and it was instructed by him to provide a solution to stabilise the ground beneath 
the foundations. I havent seen anything to show it carried out investigations along the lines 
suggested by M or R or for any other reason considered the property unstable and subject to 
significant ongoing movement. It seems to have simply offered to carry out the work Mr H 
asked it to. As a result, Im not persuaded G added to the engineering opinion described 
above or gave UIA a reason to doubt that level monitoring remained a reasonable next step.
The policy covers the cost of repairing subsidence damage. And where the only way to carry 
out a lasting and effective repair of that damage is some form of stabilisation work, such as 
that carried out by G, I would usually consider it fair for that cost to be met too. But in this 
case, Im not satisfied the engineering evidence shows that stabilisation work had become 
necessary.
M, R, and S are all experts in this field and none were convinced the property was moving 
significantly based on the evidence available at that time. The crack monitoring showed 
stability, which indicated stability. Whilst some experts thought there may be signs of movement, they all recommended further investigation should be explored before a decision 
about stability and the appropriate next steps was made. So, Im not persuaded the work 
carried out by G was shown to be necessary in order to stabilise the property.
When Mr H first mentioned using G to UIA, and later followed that up with a quote, UIA said 
it didnt think this work was necessary and wouldnt pay for it. So, Im satisfied UIA made its 
position clear to Mr H and ensured he knew he was unlikely to be reimbursed the cost if he 
went ahead with the work.
Mrs H owns the property and Mr H represents her. So, they were entitled to decide that 
paying for G to carry out the work was something they wanted to do. I understand the claim 
had been in progress for over three years by this point and they were seeking a definitive 
resolution to it. Whilst I can understand that they wanted to bring an end to the uncertainty 
and have the repairs carried out as soon as possible, I dont think that means UIA is obliged 
to reimburse them for the cost of Gs work.
Mr H had referred a number of cracks to UIA for consideration. Im satisfied it considered 
them all and either explained why they were included in the cash settlement for repair, would 
be added to it, or werent caused by subsidence. I can see this didnt always happen 
straightaway but, overall, I dont think UIA dealt with this unfairly.
Much of the reason for the length of the claim was gathering monitoring data. Although I 
recognise that likely caused distress and frustration, I dont think it was unreasonable or 
avoidable. By its nature, monitoring takes a long period of time to produce meaningful 
information. And the purpose of extending it was to reassure Mr H that the property was 
stable, which I think was a reasonable thing to do.
Overall, Im satisfied it was fair for UIA not to pay for the work carried out by G.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman