DRN-3098511
The complaint
Mr S complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S took out a single loan from AvantCredit as follows: 
Mr S brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with AvantCredit. 
In summary, Mr S didnt think that AvantCredit had lent to him responsibly because it didnt 
do proper checks before lending to him and the loan wasnt affordable.
  
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. She upheld the complaint and set out 
detailed directions indicating what AvantCredit needed to do to put things right. 
AvantCredit disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that the loan would have 
consolidated 52% of Mr Ss active credit balances, essentially reducing his monthly 
commitments. It told us its checks showed that Mr S did not have any other loan accounts 
and zero monthly payments to other accounts. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
Start date Loan amount Total amount 
repayableTerm Monthly 
repaymentLoan status
26/01/2016 £5,500 £11,484.34 60
months£191.41 OutstandingIf reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think 
about whether there was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information AvantCredit 
relied on when it decided to lend to Mr S. 
AvantCredit asked Mr S about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - and 
it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that AvantCredit relied on 
when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr S. 
AvantCredit told us it verified Mr Ss income was around £1,468 per month. When looking at 
what he could afford, AvantCredit included an amount for his rent and his car and allowed for 
Mr S spending £300 on other monthly expenses. 
On these figures and bearing in mind that the loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other 
words, Mr S would use the loan to pay other debt - Mr S should still have had reasonable 
disposable income left to spend, even after allowing for the monthly repayments he would 
have to make for this loan. So AvantCredit felt this loan was affordable for Mr S.
Like our adjudicator, I dont think that AvantCredit properly took into account the information 
it was able to see on the credit checks it carried out when thinking about whether Mr S would 
be able to repay this loan in a way that was sustainable. 
I think that AvantCredit could see from its credit check that Mr S already owed more than 
£10,000 across three card accounts and he had used most of the available credit they 
offered. Over the course of the previous 12 months his total debt balance had increased by 
£3,545 so it was clear that he was drawing heavily on credit. 
AvantCredit also obtained a bank statement which showed that Mr S had paid at least £420 
to his 3 credit cards in the month running up to him taking out this loan  and he had started 
and ended that month overdrawn, more or less at the full limit of his £750 arranged overdraft 
on his current account. 
So, AvantCredit was able to see that Mr S was effectively using borrowed money from the 
bank to pay for his existing credit. 
I think AvantCredit should have realised that Mr S didnt in reality have the amount of 
disposable income it thought he had. All this information painted a picture of someone 
struggling to manage money problems and it included clear warning signs that Mr S was 
already experiencing financial difficulty. 
I think this was enough for AvantCredit to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr S 
could repay further credit sustainably without experiencing more adverse 
consequences. I dont think, based on what AvantCredit had in front of it, it saw enough 
to reasonably be satisfied that Mr S was going to be able to make the loan repayments 
in a sustainable way. So I dont think AvantCredit made a fair lending decision when it 
decided to provide this loan to Mr S.Even if AvantCredit disagrees on this point, I also think that, at the very least, 
AvantCredit shouldve done more to verify what Mr S had told it  especially bearing in 
mind that AvantCredit knew from the checks it did carry out that Mr S had significantly 
under-stated what he was spending on other credit each month and it was evident that 
he was substantially reliant on expensive credit to get through the month.
And I think if it had sought a fuller picture of Mr Ss financial situation AvantCredit wasnt 
likely to have been reassured that the loan would be sustainable for him. 
I think it wouldve most likely realised that all the indications apparent from looking at its 
credit checks and the single bank statement it obtained were borne out by what I've seen on 
Mr Ss bank statements from around this time  and the loan wasnt sustainably affordable 
for Mr S when he was already relying substantially on credit to help him manage his day to 
day spending and depending on his overdraft at the bank to get through the month. 
So I dont think AvantCredit shouldve provided this loan. 
I've taken into account that Mr S said the purpose of the AvantCredit loan was to consolidate 
debt  and the loan was enough to pay just over half his outstanding debt. But this doesnt 
affect my overall view.
I've looked at several months worth of bank statements provided by Mr S which I think are a 
useful guide to understanding his overall financial situation at the time. And I think its fair to 
say that it looks like he did apply the loan towards paying other debt. 
But compared to the loan amount, the scale of his debt was so substantial that this didnt 
result in any real monthly saving or improve Mr Ss day to day financial situation.
I say this because Mr S was simply replacing his typical monthly spend of around £420 on 
his credit cards with a new monthly repayment for this loan of around £191 while he still 
owed around £5,000 on his cards. Assuming he paid just 5% of the balance left outstanding 
on his card accounts (which I think is the minimum amount he would have had to pay to 
make any meaningful impact into that debt) then this would have cost him around £250. So 
this meant that Mr S would now face having to pay approximately £440 per month towards 
servicing his debt  more than he had paid before taking out the loan. 
I think its also worth mentioning that Mr Ss actual income (averaged over the three months 
worth of bank statements that I've seen) was closer to the £1,300 figure he declared for his 
take home pay. So the amount he would be spending on servicing his debt would be around 
a third of his monthly income. I think that was such a significant proportion of his take home 
pay that AvantCredit should have realised it was unlikely that the loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr S. Even the bigger income figure that AvantCredit relied on when it 
assessed affordability still meant that the proportion of Mr Ss spending on credit debt was 
too high to be realistically sustainable over a five year loan term. 
So this all makes me think that AvantCredit had insufficient reason to think its loan wouldve 
improved Mr Ss overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable 
improvement in his financial situation given his outstanding indebtedness overall. And based 
on all the information AvantCredit had gathered, I dont think it was reasonably able to say 
that the loan was likely to be sustainable affordable for Mr S.
So for all these reasons, Im upholding this complaint.  Like our adjudicator, I think the steps I've set out below fairly and reasonably provide 
redress for his complaint. I havent seen enough to make me think that Avantcredit acted 
towards Mr S in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. It appears that Mr S hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said about 
this so I dont think I need to say more. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both Mr S and AvantCredit have confirmed they agree with what I've said in my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and AvantCredit in particular for responding so promptly to my provisional decision to 
confirm its revised position on this complaint and for the information it provided regarding 
debt sold. Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my 
mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the principal amount that he borrowed when 
he took out this loan because hes had the benefit of the loan. But he has been charged 
extra on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services usual expectations when debt has been sold on by a lender to a 
third-party agent, AvantCredit should buy back any outstanding debt it sold if able to do so 
and then take the following steps. Otherwise, AvantCredit should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments he made should be deducted from this amount.
if this results in Mr S having made overpayments then those overpayments 
should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled and paid to Mr S
if there is still an outstanding balance, then AvantCredit should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr S
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to this 
loan when it is repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman