DRN-4171864
The complaint
Ms P complains about the service received from Lloyds Bank PLC. 
What happened
Ms P was locked out of her account for over six weeks because of fraud alerts placed on her 
account which werent properly removed. 
Ms P says she spent a considerable amount of time - on telephone calls and branch visits, to 
resolve the situation which impacted her financially as she is self-employed. So, she 
complaint to Lloyds.
Lloyds said that a block had been placed on Ms Ps account when a transaction Ms P 
attempted to make on 18 September 2022 was referred for fraud checks. It accepted that the 
block hadnt been removed properly but the mistake didnt come to light until Ms P contacted 
it again on 1 October 2022 at which point the block was successfully removed.
But when Ms P went on to make another transaction, this was also referred for a fraud 
check. Lloyds accepts that this transaction should have been referred to another department 
before the account was blocked. But it added that by 5 October 2022 Ms P hadnt contacted 
its fraud team to discuss the removal of the account block.
But Lloyds accepted that - overall, it hadnt provided Ms P with the appropriate level of 
service, and it offered her £250 compensation by way of an apology. Ms P didnt accept this 
outcome and referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into it. And he recommended Lloyds should increase its offer 
of compensation to £350. 
Lloyds accepted this recommendation. But Ms P didnt. She said £350 wasnt enough of a 
punitive cost to ensure Lloyds changed its business operations going forward. And it didnt 
accurately reflect the inconvenience caused to her. 
Ms P asked for her complaint to be reviewed to an ombudsman, so it has been passed to 
me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has raised several complaint points and Im aware I have only summarised the 
circumstances of her complaint above. So, Id like to reassure her that I have read and 
considered her correspondence in full. And I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar 
detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we 
are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In 
doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond to every point made, but to consider the 
circumstances of the complaint as a whole.
Having done so, while I appreciate Ms Ps strength of feeling about what happened - overall, 
I agree with the investigator that £350 is fair compensation in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms P has said the fraud checks that Lloyds systems indicated were needed were 
unnecessary. And I can understand why Ms P has said this  the transactions she was 
undertaking were genuine. But the starting point here is that businesses like Lloyds are 
expected to have security measures and procedures in place to safeguard customers 
accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. As to exactly what those procedures are and 
how they are carried out is a matter for Lloyds to decide. That is not something this service 
becomes involved in. 
But we can look into whether Lloyds followed its procedures correctly. And here Lloyds 
hasnt disputed that it didnt handle things as well as it should have done  for example, the 
original block wasnt removed when it should have been, and it didnt follow the correct 
process when another transaction was identified for fraud checks. Ive also seen there were 
some issues when Ms P raised her complaint. Lloyds offered £250 compensation for the 
errors. And it has since accepted the investigators recommendation to increase the 
compensation offer for the inconvenience the errors caused to £350. 
I note Ms P has said she doesnt think £350 is a sufficient punitive cost to ensure Lloyds 
changes its business operations. But this service is not the regulator, so we cant fine or 
punish a business when it makes mistakes. Our awards are intended to recognise any 
financial loss and/or material distress and inconvenience caused. So, Ive thought carefully 
about the impact Lloyds errors had on Ms P. 
Ms P has said her credit rating was impacted as she wasnt able to pay outstanding credit 
statements as she couldnt access her account. But she hasnt provided any evidence of 
this. And I note she told us she was able to borrow money from a partner to make payments. 
Overall, I havent seen enough to conclude that any mistakes on Lloyds part impacted               
Ms Ps credit rating or that she was unable to make any payments that were due.
But I can appreciate how frustrating and inconvenient Ms P will have found this whole 
matter. I accept she spent time and effort in trying to sort the problem out  both on the 
phone and in branch visits. And she couldnt access her account for several weeks. So, I 
agree compensation is rightfully due. 
Overall, I find £350 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to Ms P. Id like to be clear that this is not to minimise what Lloyds did wrong, it 
clearly didnt handle matters as it should have. Its just that Ive found compensation of £350 
fairly recognises the impact the situation had on Ms P.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Lloyds Bank PLC should now pay Ms P £350 (less anything already paid) in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman