DRN-4006890
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc applied blocks to his account without warning which 
took four weeks to be removed.  
What happened
Mr B says that Santander placed blocks on his account without warning and this left him out 
of pocket. This is because he says he had to visit the branch 20 times, and each time he 
needed to use a taxi as a result of his medical issues, which cost £75 each time. He says he 
was given contradicting information about how to remove the block which meant it took a 
month for it to be removed.  
Santander issued a number of final response letters about different parts of his complaint. In 
summary, these said that the block had been placed correctly ad that Mr B needed to visit a 
branch to have an in-depth conversation about his account activity for it to be removed. They 
did agree that there had been issues with Mr B being given incorrect information as well as 
delays and for all of these issues he had been awarded with a total of £175 compensation. 
Mr B referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. Having 
reviewed everything, they felt that the block had been applied correctly and that it was a 
reasonable course of action that Mr B was asked to visit a branch to go through all of the 
transactions on the account line by line. Overall, they did not agree that Santander had acted 
unreasonably and the felt the £175 that had already been paid for the service issues Mr B 
experienced was fair in the circumstances.
Mr B did not agree with the outcome. He felt that Santander had discriminated against him 
due to his mental health issues. And he pointed to a final response letter in which Santander 
apologised for adding the block to his account. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Santander should have done more to assist Mr B in unblocking the 
account sooner, but I dont think they were wholly responsible for the delays. Because of 
this, I dont recommend an increase in the compensation already awarded to Mr B. 
While I appreciate it was inconvenient for Mr B, I think that Santander acted reasonably and 
in his best interests when they applied the block to his basic account. I can see that the day 
before the block was applied, Mr B had telephoned Santander with concerns that people 
known to him had taken his top-up card and used it without his authority. As a result, he had 
asked for his top-up card to be blocked as a precaution.
When Mr B spoke with the fraud team the following day there was an international purchase 
made using his top-up card that was likely made prior to the block being applied. During the 
conversation, more transactions on Mr Bs basic account were discussed and Mr B did not 
recognise some transfers and withdrawals on his statements. Because of this, the fraud 
team made the decision to block the account and asked Mr B to attend a branch to go 
through his transactions individually so they could properly investigate what had happened 
on his account. 
Im satisfied this was done with Mr Bs financial safety in mind and that Santander was acting 
reasonably when they applied the block. I can see this was done to try and protect Mr Bs 
account from potential financial harm and their request for him to go to a branch to discuss 
the transactions was therefore a reasonable one. Because of this, I cant agree that they 
made an error when they applied the block. I appreciate that Santander apologised in a letter 
that it had placed the blocks but as explained above I dont think they placed it in error.
During the same conversation in which the block was placed on Mr S account, the fraud 
team applied an alert to his profile that asked the branch staff to call the fraud team the next 
time he was in branch. However, when Mr B attended a branch the following day, he said 
that he was told he would need to call the fraud team himself if there was a block on the 
account. And the fact he withdrew cash in branch, but the block was not lifted supports       
Mr Bs testimony. 
Considering this, I think there was a disconnect between the fraud team and the branch staff 
and this resulted in the block not being lifted from his account. What followed was a series of 
missed opportunities for a conversation to be had in branch and more notes being added to 
Mr Bs customer profile that were missed by the branch staff. This ultimately resulted in 
additional trips to the branch and a number of unnecessary phone calls to arrange ATM 
withdrawals and transfers. 
However, I also think that, after a point, Mr B had clearly been told on more than one 
occasion that he would need to visit a branch and call fraud from there. I can see on 12 
October 2022, Mr B had a telephone call with Santander where the call handler clearly set 
out what he needed to do for the block to be lifted. And this was the second time Mr B had 
been given clear instructions on how to lift the block. With this in mind, I dont think 
Santander are solely responsible for the block taking such a long time to be lifted.
I can also see from looking at the statements that Mr B was able to withdraw cash from his 
account on the same day funds went into it. Meaning he was never delayed in getting 
access to his own funds. I appreciate Mr B has said that he visited the branch 20 times at a 
cost of £75 in taxi costs per visit. But there were only three withdrawals in branch following 
on from the day after the block was applied, and Mr B said in a separate phone call with the 
branch that it cost around £25 in taxis per visit. With this in mind, its difficult to rely on Mr Bs 
testimony setting out the additional costs he incurred.
With all of this in mind, I think the £175 already awarded to Mr B for the issues he faced 
when his account was blocked as a whole is broadly in line with what I would have 
recommended in the circumstances. I think this fairly acknowledges the distress and 
inconvenience Mr B faced over the month that his account was blocked.
I appreciate that Mr B feels he has been discriminated against due to his mental health 
issues and I can understand his strength of feeling. Having listened to the phone calls 
carefully and reviewed the contact notes, Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr B was treated 
differently from any other consumer in the same circumstances. I think it would be 
reasonable for Santander to apply the same block to any other customer account where 
there was as much uncertainty about the transactions on it. And I think the issues Mr B faced were due to miscommunications within Santander and not as a result of him being treated 
differently due to his mental health issues.
On balance, while I do think Santander could have done more in the circumstances, I also 
dont think they were wholly responsible for the block not being removed sooner. Having 
carefully considered everything, I think the £175 already offered and paid is fair in the 
circumstances and I dont recommend an increase of this. 
My final decision
I do not recommend an increase in the compensation of £175 already paid to Mr B by 
Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman