DRN-3618509
The complaint
Mr W1, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr W, complains that Just Retirement Limited 
(JRL) has failed to make payments due under the guarantee to an annuity taken out by 
Mr W before his death.
What happened
Mr W purchased an annuity from JRL in February 2012. JRL says that annuity provided a 
ten-year guarantee period  so if Mr W died within ten years of starting the annuity, monthly 
payments would continue to be made until the end of that period. Mr W sadly died in 
June 2012.
Following Mr Ws death JRL made monthly annuity payments under the guarantee to Mr W1 
and his sister. In November 2021 JRL wrote to Mr W1 and his sister to let them know that 
the end of the guarantee period was approaching and that annuity payments would stop the 
following January. Mr W1 complained saying that his late father had told him that the 
guarantee period was for 15 years. He says that the relevant documentation doesnt 
explicitly describe the length of any guarantee period.
The complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
paperwork from the time the annuity was taken out clearly set out that the guarantee period 
was for ten years. So she didnt think that JRL had done anything wrong in ending the 
payments, or that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr W1 didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W1 and by JRL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr W received advice on his retirement annuity from an independent financial advisor. So 
that means JRL was not responsible for ensuring the annuity was suitable for his needs. It 
just needed to ensure that Mr W was given clear, fair, and not misleading information about 
his chosen annuity.
I havent seen anything to make me think that there were any direct discussions between 
Mr W and JRL about the structure of the annuity he was sold. And given the involvement of 
the financial advisor in the process I wouldnt find it surprising if no direct discussions did 
take place. Given the sad passing of Mr W, I am not able to review any testimony from him 
about what happened when he purchased the annuity in 2012. So I find myself largely reliant 
on the documentation that was produced at the time.
JRL provided Mr W with a quotation for his proposed pension benefits. That quotation, 
issued on 1 February 2012, set out the terms on which the annuity would be provided. It told 
Mr W the amount of the annuity he would receive, that payments would be made for the 
whole of his life, that payments would be made monthly in advance, and that the annuity 
amount would not increase once it had been put into payment. And, specifically relevant to 
this complaint, it told him, in a section headed Guarantee Period, that if he died within ten 
years of the policy commencing, the annuity would continue in payment until the end of the 
guarantee period.
Once Mr W had accepted JRLs quotation his annuity was set up. At that time JRL sent 
Mr W a policy schedule setting out its agreement to pay the specified annuity. That 
document set out that the Guaranteed Payment Period was 10 years without overlap. 
And the document later went on to provide a further definition of the phrase Guaranteed 
Payment Period. That defined it as;
the minimum period for which your Pension is guaranteed to be payable. If you 
should die before this period has expired, your Pension will continue to be paid until 
the end of this period
As I said earlier, I have no way of knowing what Mr W was told about his proposed annuity. 
It might be, for example, that the information he was given by his financial advisor was 
incorrect and led him to think that a longer guarantee period applied. But I dont think that 
any error of that nature is something that I should hold JRL responsible for. I think the 
documentation that was issued to Mr W was clear, both in explaining what would happen 
should he die, and for how long the guarantee would last.
Following Mr Ws death, JRL continued to make the annuity payments until January 2022. 
That is ten years after the start of Mr Ws annuity, and so in line with the guarantee that it 
provided. I havent seen anything to make me think that JRL agreed to provide Mr W with a 
longer guarantee period, or that it misled him to that effect.
I appreciate that my decision with be disappointing for Mr W1 and his sister. But I think that 
JRL has met the terms of the guarantee that it offered when the annuity was purchased. 
I think that JRL acted reasonably when stopping the annuity payments in January 2022 once 
the guarantee had expired.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Just Retirement Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W1, on behalf 
of the estate of Mr W, to accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman