DRN-2862873
The complaint
Mr F complains about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) regarding the settlement it offered for his 
water damage claim. Mr F wants QIC to reimburse him for the costs he incurred in having 
the repairs completed privately.  
What happened
Mr F has held home insurance with QIC since 2017. 
In late 2020, Mr F was having some renovation works carried out at his home, using his own 
contractor. These works included replacement of his bathroom suite. 
As his bathroom was removed, it became clear that there had been a slow leak in the 
bathroom and that this had caused extensive damage within the bathroom floor and the wall 
to the hallway of his home. 
On 11 November 2020, Mr Fs contractors stopped work, and Mr F contacted his home 
insurers QIC to submit a claim. 
Mr F advised QIC that he would obtain a quote from his contractors and submit this for 
approval. 
On 19 November, QIC advised Mr F that it had a contractor in the area. Mr F asked if QIC 
could obtain quotes and reach a view quickly on the claim as his family was without a 
bathroom in their home.
On 20 November 2020, QIC declined Mr Fs claim, saying that the leak was likely via the 
bath sealant and so was excluded under his policy. Mr F immediately complained. 
On 23 November 2020, QIC contacted Mr F and discussed the claim. The advised that the 
claim may be covered and advised that a senior surveyor would be in touch to assess the 
damage. Mr F told QIC that he had engaged his contractors and that repair work was due to 
commence later that week. 
Repair works began and Mr Fs contractors discovered the damage was more extensive 
than it had initially appeared. On 3 December 2020 QICs surveyor visited Mr Fs property 
and inspected the damage. 
The surveyor drew up a schedule of works and on 10 December 2020, QIC made an offer of 
settlement to Mr F for £4342.58, minus his excess. This offer was based on the surveyors 
assessment of what it would have cost QIC to carry out the repairs detailed on the schedule 
of works. 
Mr F had paid almost £8500 for the repairs. 
QIC subsequently increased its offer to Mr F to £5500 and offered him £400 compensation 
to reflect its initial decision to decline his claim.  
Mr F was not happy with this and contacted us. One of our investigators has looked into this 
matter and has set out her view to the parties. This was that QIC had wrongly declined the 
claim and that Mr F had acted reasonably in commissioning the repairs after this decision. 
She considered that it was unfair for QIC to seek to rely on the policy term that it would limit 
its settlement as QIC had declined its opportunity to arrange repairs. She therefore thought 
that QIC should reimburse Mr F fully for the costs he incurred.
QIC did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
Before reaching a decision, I contacted QIC and asked QIC to provide details of where it 
contended that Mr F had either commissioned repairs which were outside of the schedule of 
works, or where Mr F had paid an inflated rate, rather than the market rate for the works. 
QIC has not provided such an explanation or details. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the view issued by our investigator and this is thorough and logical. I agree with 
her view and the basis of her decision. 
When the damage was discovered, Mr F was left in the position of having no bathroom for 
his family and having his own contractors prevented from moving forward on his renovations 
while he awaited a decision from QIC. It was therefore clear that the claim was urgent. 
QIC was informed of the loss promptly, yet took 9 days to reach a decision, which is 
accepted was a wrong decision. 
Mr F complained immediately and was advised that the decision would likely change, but he 
was not given further advice about how to proceed, or that QIC would seek to carry out the 
repairs using its own contractors. 
On that basis, Mr F had no assurance that QIC would arrange for the work, or that QIC 
would insist on its own contractors (or alternatively that it would cap any settlement it offered 
at the rates payable to QICs preferred contractors). In those circumstances it was 
reasonable for Mr F to arrange for the works to be done, by the contractor he had obtained a 
quote from and whose quote he had passed to QIC. 
After the repairs had begun, QIC prepared its assessment of a reasonable cost for the 
repairs. This settlement sum was based on rates of preferred contractors and included 
discounts available to QIC. 
I agree with the investigators view that it would be unfair to allow QIC to rely on a lower 
settlement based on preferential rates which it had access to, after it had given up its 
opportunity to arrange the repair works using those same contractors and their preferential 
rates. 
Mr F clearly did not have access to these rates, and so he appears to have paid the market 
rate for the work at that time. No evidence has been provided to show that this was 
excessive, or what other rates were available to Mr F, so on the evidence provided I am 
satisfied that the sum Mr F paid was the market rate for the work. 
QIC has argued that Mr F acted too quickly in engaging his own contractor, and this prevented QIC from using its preferred contractors, at lower rates. I do not agree that Mr F 
acted too quickly. He acted promptly, upon his claim being declined, but this was reasonable 
as he would clearly wish to keep the time when his family was without a bathroom to the 
minimum possible. QIC had the opportunity to retain control of this repair, and it gave up this 
opportunity when it wrongly declined the claim. 
For these reasons I agree with the investigators view and I uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
QIC offered Mr F £400 for his distress and inconvenience at his claim being wrongly 
declined. I am aware that Mr F took on debt to pay for the repairs and was caused 
substantial distress and inconvenience by the handling of his claim. I think that the offer of 
£400 is in line with other awards we would make in similar circumstances and is appropriate.
Putting things right
To put things right QIC must:
Reimburse Mr F for the costs he has paid for the repairs, minus the applicable 
excess. Mr F should provide evidence of the date of payment;
Pay Mr F interest on the above sum at a rate of 8% per annum from the date of Mr F 
settling his invoice up until the date of settlement. 
Pay to Mr F £400 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd to: 
Reimburse Mr F for the costs he paid for the repairs, minus the applicable excess;
Pay Mr F interest on the above sum at a rate of 8% per annum from the date of Mr F 
settling his invoice up until the date of settlement. 
Pay to Mr F £400 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman