DRN-2414970
The complaint
Miss B complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) 
was irresponsible to give her a loan she couldnt afford.
What happened
In May 2019 Miss B took out a loan for £500 with MoneyBoat  due to be repaid by six 
monthly instalments of around £134. As far as I am aware, the loan hasnt yet ben repaid. 
Miss B said that MoneyBoat didnt properly check affordability before lending to her. She told 
us that the loan added to her debt problems and made her financial situation worse.
When Miss B complained to MoneyBoat it didn't agree that it had done anything wrong and 
so she brought her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator felt that MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided the loan to Miss B as the 
checks MoneyBoat did showed that it wasnt likely that Miss B wouldve been able to 
sustainably repay the loan. Our adjudicator set out the steps he said MoneyBoat should take 
to put things right for Miss B. 
MoneyBoat mainly said it did proportionate checks  especially bearing in mind this was 
Miss Bs first (and only) loan. And that whilst we might say it should've looked at all the 
information it had, MoneyBoat said it was impractical to review every line of a credit file for 
every loan. MoneyBoat told us that in the early stages of a lending relationship its processes 
are automated so that it can offer a quick and efficient service to borrowers who might be in 
need of urgent short term finance. 
MoneyBoat has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the Miss B. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Miss B could 
sustainably make her repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
MoneyBoat asked Miss B to provide details of her income and to tell MoneyBoat what she 
normally spent each month. Looking at what MoneyBoat had recorded about Miss Bs 
income and expenditure, Miss Bs appeared to have around £1,200 of disposable income 
when she was applying for this loan. 
But that information wasnt supported by the information shown on its credit checks that 
MoneyBoat sent to us. 
I think its fair to say that MoneyBoat could see that Miss B had been relying significantly on 
short term loans, including payday loans, for a while. 
And MoneyBoat could see from the credit checks it did that Miss B had at least three other 
short term high cost loans outstanding when she asked to borrow this loan from MoneyBoat 
 and a significant balance outstanding as well as information about two defaulted accounts 
within the previous 12 months. 
This type of borrowing is intended to provide a short-term fix in the event of temporary 
money problems. So I think the information MoneyBoat had gathered about Miss Bs credit 
history shouldve made MoneyBoat realise that it looked like Miss B was finding it difficult to 
manage her money. Ive carefully considered what MoneyBoat has said about this. But I think that the credit 
information it obtained should reasonably have led MoneyBoat to the conclusion that the 
information Miss B had provided about her finances wasnt reliable and that it was likely that 
Miss B was facing serious problems managing her money.
I dont think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to conclude that it was likely that Miss B would 
be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way. 
So Im upholding Miss Bs complaint about the loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Miss B, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss B may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere.
If this wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing).
But even if she had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss B in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss B would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following: 
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan and treat any 
repayments made by Miss B as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
B. If this results in Miss B having made overpayments then these should be refunded 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. If there is still an outstanding balance owed in respect of the loan then the amounts 
calculated in "A" should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Miss B. 
And if there is still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss B. D. Remove all adverse entries from Miss Bs credit file for this loan once it is repaid - 
and ask the debt purchaser to do the same if MoneyBoat sold this loan on. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk) to take the steps set out above to put things right for Miss B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman