DRN-1397938
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about the fee Crystal Legal Services Limited (Crystal) has charged him for 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In  April 2017 Mr C signed a letter of authority (LoA) for Crystal to act on his behalf in 
submitting a PPI claim. In the same month, Crystal submitted the claim to his lender. A few 
days later Mr Cs lender said he didnt have any PPI cover on his accounts. Mr C was told 
Crystal wouldn't charge him for the claim.
But on 6 August 2019, Mr Cs bank told both Mr C and Crystal that their initial 
response wasn't correct. And, in September 2019, after further investigation refunded Mr C 
for mis-sold PPI. As the claim was now successful Crystal asked Mr C to pay its fee of 30% 
plus VAT.
Mr C didn't agree to pay the fee as he said he'd been told he wouldn't be charged. And the 
refund was because of a complaint he'd made to his lender in May 2019. And not for the 
work done by Crystal.
Crystal said the refund Mr C had got from his lender was because of the PPI claim they'd 
submitted in April 2017. And as a successful claim had been made their fee was payable.
Mr C wasn't happy with Crystal's response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator agreed the successful claim was due to the PPI claim submitted by Crystal. 
He said the complaint made by Mr C in May 2019 was for card protection insurance (CPI) 
and not PPI. He found it was fair and reasonable for Crystal to charge its fee.
Mr C didn't agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding this 
complaint. I'll explain why.
The agreement Mr C signed, with Crystal in April 2017 was on a No win No fee basis. This 
means Crystal charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work 
they actually did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. 
Where a claim was successful, Crystal's fee may be more or less than the value of the work 
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement.In April 2017 Crystal was told by Mr Cs lender that they hadn't found any PPI policies for 
his accounts. So as this would have been an unsuccessful claim, Crystal didn't charge Mr C 
their fee. But in August 2019, Mr Cs lender told both Mr C and Crystal  they'd made an error 
and after further investigation found PPI compensation was due to Mr C. So this was now a 
successful claim.
What I need to determine is whether the success of the claim was due to the claim submitted 
by Crystal in April 2017. Or the complaint, Mr C said he made in, May 2019.
In the August 2019 letter sent to Mr C by his lender, the first paragraph refers to the claim 
having been brought to them by Crystal. And they say they will raise a complaint. They also 
said
"You may wish to check any obligations you have with your CMC from when you entered 
into the agreement for them to act on your behalf."
And the letter also shows a copy was sent to Crystal.
I know Mr C will be disappointed because he was told by Crystal in April 2017 that he didn't 
need to pay their fee. But I can see Mr C's lender had made a mistake when they'd said 
he didn't have any PPI on his accounts in April 2017. As it was the lender's error I can't hold 
Crystal responsible for the mistake they made. And I think if the error hadn't been made by 
the lender in April 2017, Mr C's claim would have been successful at that time. And so 
Crystal would have been paid their fee.
So I'm satisfied that it was the April 2017 claim submitted by Crystal that was reviewed by 
the lender in August 2019.
I don't doubt Mr C contributed to the success of the claim by completing  the further 
information his lender asked for. But as outlined above Crystal's fee isn't calculated based 
on the amount of work they have done. But on whether the claim was successful or 
not. And the claim was successful.
I can see Mr C complained to his lender in May 2019 and that his lender responded to his 
complaint in June 2019. But this complaint wasn't about PPI but CPI. So I'm satisfied this 
had no bearing on the success of Mr C's PPI complaint.
In the terms and conditions of the agreement Crystal set out its fee as being 30% plus VAT. 
It also gave an example of what the monetary value of the fee would be, and what payment 
its client would get. And this is the fee that Crystal asked Mr C to pay.
The Financial Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator to introduce a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force on 10 July 
2018. From this date, claims management companies couldn't legally charge a success fee 
of more than 20% plus VAT. But the fee cap wasnt retrospective - so doesn't apply to 
agreements entered into before this date. Mr C entered into the agreement in April 2017, so 
I'm satisfied Crystal can charge the higher fee.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. But the claim Crystal submitted for him 
was successful. So, Im satisfied Crystal was authorised to act on his behalf and acted in line 
with its terms and conditions by charging him its success fee of 30% plus VAT. 
 
 My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman