DRN-3503555
The complaint
Mr J complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handling of his claim, 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2021, Mr J made a claim following an escape of water at his home. The claim was 
accepted by Admiral who contracted out the repairs to be carried out. Mr J moved out to 
allow the work to progress. But the work progressed very slowly despite Mr J regularly 
contacting Admiral to chase. 
Mr J describes that there was very little work being carried out and his property was left 
uninhabitable. He described that the impact on his health was such that he was signed off 
sick from work. 
Mr J complained to Admiral. In its final response, it agreed that there was poor 
communication, poor service and delays. It estimated that the delays were around three to 
four months and acknowledged the distress and inconvenience this would have caused. It 
offered and paid £400 compensation for this. 
Mr J was given his referral rights and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that Admiral 
had now started the work which was good. He accepted that the delays and poor 
communication had had an impact on Mr Js wellbeing. And recommended that Admiral 
increase the level of compensation to reflect this to £1,000. 
Admiral accepted the view Mr J did not. He felt that our investigator hadnt considered 
the impact on his mental health and the effect this had on him. He said that the repairs still 
had not been completed and the areas that had been completed were of a poor standard. 
He asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this may be a disappointment to Mr J, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I note that Mr J has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As 
an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. And I think the main issue 
here, as Admiral has accepted the poor service and delays, is the level of compensation that 
our investigator has recommended that Admiral pay. 
Our investigator recommended that Admiral pay £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. His main reason why he thought the level of compensation was reasonable was 
because he felt that Mr J had suffered a significant level of distress and inconvenience, due 
to Admirals poor level of communication and the disruption to his life. In that, Mr J told our 
investigator that he had been signed off work for six months due to general anxiety as a 
result of the delays and the slow progress of the claim. 
Admiral accepted that there were poor customer service issues and delays caused. It 
accepted that its original offer of £400 compensation wasnt enough and has agreed to 
increase the compensation to £1,000. 
Mr J said that he believed that given the effect on his mental health, the level of 
compensation ought to be from £1,500 upwards. So, I think that the main issues is the level 
of compensation, Mr J has sought from Admiral.
In order to consider a higher level of compensation as Mr J has requested, our approach is 
that an award of over £1,500 would be appropriate where the error caused sustained 
distress, potentially affecting someones health or severe disruption to daily life. But we 
would also expect to see some ongoing lasting impact on someones health, that are 
irreversible or resulted in a personal injury. 
I have read five fit notes that Mr J has provided. It appears that he was signed off from work 
from 14 September 2021 until 22 November 2021  so around two months. Each of the 
notes say the same illness, caused by stressors at home and work. From this evidence, it 
appears that there may have been issues at work which were partly responsible for Mr J 
being signed off of work.
Mr J explained that his doctor had misinterpreted what he had told him. He said that the 
stressors of work shouldnt have been mentioned on the reports. Although, I understand 
what Mr J has said, he submitted five separate records. And what is of note is that each and 
every record, states exactly the same illness and the same cause of illness. Had this been 
an error, I wouldve expected Mr J to have pointed this out to ensure that the notes correctly 
reflect the reasons why he was signed off of work. 
Also, although Mr J has offered to obtain a further report from his doctor, I think that it would 
be more likely than not that the notes made by the doctor would be contemporaneous, made 
at the time, which is a better reflection of what happened at that time. So, I think that there 
were stresses at work (in addition to those at home) that contributed to Mr J being off of 
work.
I have next considered whether Mr J has provided any evidence of any ongoing lasting 
impact on his health that was irreversible or resulted in personal injury. Mr J said that his 
mental health suffered, and he had been prescribed medication. He also said that he was 
signed off sick from work for six months. But, from the evidence that he has provided, there 
were five sick notes which supported just over two months signed off sick. He has also 
provided a recent sick note, which shows evidence of being a total of around three months 
signed off sick. 
As I previously mentioned, the sick notes provided limited information and do not support 
that there was any lasting impact on his health that was irreversible or resulted in a personal 
injury. And because of all of this, I cant be satisfied that Mr J has reached the threshold, for 
the award to be higher than the amount recommended by our investigator.Finally, Mr J has raised a new complaint about the standard of the work being carried out at 
his home.  He tells me that he has raised this with Admiral. As this new complaint is currently 
being dealt with by Admiral, I am unable to consider it with this complaint. If Mr J however, is 
not happy by the outcome that Admiral propose, he might have the option to be able to refer 
it to our service. 
Putting things right
Taking all of this into consideration, I do think that Mr J suffered significant distress and 
inconvenience and I do think that should be reflected in the compensation that Admiral ought 
to pay. So, I think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay a total of £1,000 to Mr J, for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Js complaint. 
To put matters right, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Pay Mr J £1,000 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr J a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman