DRN-3302931
The complaint
Mrs V complains Fairmead Insurance Limited handled her subsidence claim poorly.
Fairmead has had agents, a claims handler and loss adjuster, acting on its behalf for the 
claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive generally referred to their actions as being those of 
Fairmead. But in some places, where necessary, Ive referred to them directly. 
What happened
During August 2020 Mrs V became aware of progressive cracking to her property. She made 
a claim under the subsidence cover on her Fairmead home insurance policy. Fairmeads 
claim handler appointed a loss adjuster to deal with the claim. In late 2020 Fairmead 
arranged a drainage inspection and repairs. It organised monitoring of the subsidence. It 
went on to arrange an arborist to assess trees in the local area. 
Mrs Vs neighbouring property was also the subject of a subsidence claim  but with a 
different insurer. That insurer had also appointed a loss adjuster. Trees in the neighbours 
garden were suspected as the cause for both properties. 
Mrs V became frustrated at how the claim was being handled. She raised her concerns with 
Fairmead. She had to postpone plans to sell the property. She felt she was having to 
manage the claim herself, having to pass information between the two loss adjusters and 
deal with the local water company. She was concerned there wasnt adequate contact 
between the two insurers  in regard to removal of the trees and a potential case for liability 
for the damage.  
Fairmead responded to Mrs Vs concerns in May and July 2021. Fairmead explained the 
trees were under preservation orders. So monitoring was required to support an application 
to the local authority for their removal. It told Mrs V there wasnt a case against her 
neighbours insurer for liability. It said monitoring would be required until the end of the 
summer. It thought, if the trees were removed by the same time, repairs to Mrs Vs property 
could start in February or March 2022. 
In January 2021 our investigator considered Mrs Vs complaint. He felt Fairmead had 
handled the claim fairly. He didnt recommend it do anything differently. Mrs V didnt accept 
his assessment, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service, Im not going to address every comment or piece of evidence 
provided for the complaint. Instead Ill focus on what I consider to be the most significant and 
relevant. But I would like to reassure Mrs V and Fairmead that Ive considered everything 
provided. 
Mrs V says the crux of her complaint is her frustration at Fairmeads refusal to liaise directly 
with her neighbours insurer. She feels if both insurers loss adjusters had been in closer 
contact things would have been more professional and efficient. But instead shes had to 
manage the claim and pass information between the two insurers. 
Her complaint is against Fairmeads claims handler, not its loss adjuster, explains Mrs V. But 
both are ultimately the agents of Fairmead. For the purposes of this complaint its 
responsible for the actions of its agents. So Im required to consider the complaint, even if it 
concerns acts or omissions of the agents, against Fairmead.  
Mrs V feels Fairmead should have liaised with the neighbours insurer about their trees. She 
seems to feel if they had coordinated their approach both claims would have proceeded 
more efficiently. 
In response Fairmead said it wouldnt speak to the insurer directly as it appointed a loss 
adjuster to handle the claim. It denies its loss adjuster refused to speak to the other insurers. 
Fairmead says the two loss adjusters did liaise about the trees. It explained it was required 
to gather evidence specific to Mrs Vs property  with the neighbours loss adjuster doing the 
same for their property. 
So Fairmead says a combined investigation wouldnt be appropriate. Fairmead says a joint 
Tree Preservation Order (TPO) application to the local authority wouldnt be accepted. 
Instead an application has to be made with evidence specific to a particular property. Ive no 
reason to doubt what Fairmead says here.   
Mrs Vs given a few examples of information she passed to Fairmeads loss adjuster from 
her neighbours. She feels the examples demonstrate how, due to lack of contact between 
the two, shes had to step in and manage the claim. I accept there are incidences where she 
was first to inform the loss adjuster of developments. But that doesnt necessarily mean 
Fairmead or its agents were failing to adequately manage the claim or liaise with others. It 
may well have found out the same information in reasonable time anyway.   
As a further example of her managing the claim Mrs Vs referred to time spent encouraging 
the local water company to repair a shared sewer. Fairmeads response is that repairs to 
that sewer werent considered essential for her claim, not being a proximate cause of the 
subsidence. So it seems it didnt feel it was necessary, for the progress of Mrs Vs claim, for 
it to liaise with the water company on the repairs. Ive no reason to doubt what it says. 
Subsidence claims, by their nature, often proceed at what can seem like a slow pace. 
Unfortunately Mrs V was planning on selling the property, but couldnt do so until the claim 
was resolved. So she perhaps felt additional frustration at the pace of events. Id expect 
Fairmead and its agents to progress the claim at a reasonable pace. But at the same time 
its only fair to consider that they are, unlike Mrs V, involved with many claims at any time.  
Ultimately Fairmead handled the claim reasonably. The various steps required for a 
subsidence claim were put in place in satisfactory time. As far as I can see it liaised with 
relevant third parties when necessary. I can understand why Mrs V would have liked matters 
to progress more quickly. It seems as a result she was quite engaged with the claim, feeling 
a need to coordinate between different parties. But I cant fairly say that was necessary 
because of any failing on the part of Fairmead. 
In response to our investigator Mrs V highlighted that her complaint points were set out in 
correspondence provided in July 2021 and January 2022. So Ive addressed any that arent 
already covered above. Mrs Vs been frustrated Fairmead wasnt more proactive with a possible liability claim 
against her neighbours insurer. She feels the other insurer should have dealt with the cause 
of the subsidence sooner. Fairmead doesnt feel the insurer was negligent, as required for a 
liability claim. So it says there wasnt a liability claim to pursue. Based on what Ive seen, I 
cant say thats an unreasonable position. 
According to Mrs V Fairmead responded to her query about a liability claim incorrectly. She 
quotes it as saying, in a particular letter in July 2021, that vegetation isnt related to the 
neighbours property. Ive considered the letter Mrs V refers to. But Fairmead didnt make 
that statement. Instead it set it position on the absence of negligence. 
Mrs V says Fairmead (or more specifically its claims handler) ignored many of her questions. 
The loss adjuster was dealing with the claim. Ive seen notes of calls and copies of 
correspondence between it and Mrs V. I accept there may be examples of it or the claims 
handler not responding to every enquiry or question. But overall the communication with 
Mrs V during the claim was responsive and informative. 
I accept the subsidence claim and related issues have been very frustrating and 
inconvenient for Mrs V. However, I can only consider the actions of Fairmead (and its 
agents). Having done so, Im satisfied it handled the claim in a fair and reasonable way. Im 
not persuaded it made mistakes that created unnecessary delay. So Im not going to require 
it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman