DRN-3493882
The complaint
F complains Arch Insurance (UK) Limited unfairly declined a claim made on its property 
owners policy for damage caused by a cannabis farm.
F is being represented in bringing this complaint. But for ease Ive referred to all comments 
and actions as being those of F.
What happened
In late 2020, police found there was a cannabis farm at Fs property. F contacted Arch to
make a claim for the damage caused. In order to assess the claim, Arch asked F for more
information about the tenants. But this wasnt provided. Fs managing agent (B) had sublet
the property to another managing agent (E), and F said it was having trouble getting the
information the insurer was requesting as E hadnt replied.
Arch declined the claim on the basis it didnt have the information it needed to validate it. F
complained but Arch didnt agree to change its position. So F brought its complaint to our
service; it wanted the claim and loss of rent to be paid. Our investigator didnt think Arch had
acted unreasonably in asking for more information to validate the claim. She also said the
policy didnt provide cover for loss of rent. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
F didnt accept that. It said it had provided all of the information it reasonably could have,
and the police report was clear that the damage had been caused by an insured event. So
the claim should be covered.
As F didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arch has said it has declined the claim as F hasnt been able to provide any information 
about who was renting the property at the time of the damage. Or whether there were even 
any tenants occupying the property at the time of the loss. Its also asked for some other 
information to validate the claim which hasnt been provided. 
F has provided a lease agreement between its managing agent B and the sub-letting agent 
E. But it says its unable to get any more information from E about who was renting the 
property, so what its already provided should be enough.
Having considered everything, I dont think Arch has reached an unreasonable decision to
decline the claim at this point. F hasnt been able to give a reasonable explanation as to why
it cant obtain the information the insurer has requested.
It has said it wouldnt be expected to provide the names and addresses of a thief that stole
items from the property, so it also shouldnt be expected to be able to provide details of the
tenant. I dont accept Fs argument as valid here. This is a property owners policy, I find it
reasonable for Arch to expect F would have some detail as to who it was renting the property
to, in order to assess whether there is a valid claim. So at the moment, I dont think Arch
needs to do anything differently. But if F is able to provide the information Arch has asked
for, Id expect it to review the claim for damage again in line with the policy terms.
F has argued that even though loss of rental income isnt covered under the policy, it should
be paid as Arch has unfairly declined the claim. Im satisfied that at this stage, it has fairly
declined the claim, so it wouldnt be reasonable to require it to compensate F for any lost
rental income.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Arch Insurance (UK) Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman