DRN-1554428
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Next Retail Limited unfairly refused to agree a reduced repayment plan. 
Mr R wants Next to refund the charges and interest that he has incurred since December 
2018.
What happened
Mr R has a credit agreement with Next. In early December 2018, Mr R told Next that he was 
struggling financially. Mr R offered to pay Next £50 a month to reduce the outstanding 
balance on his account.
Mr R is unhappy that Next continued to add interest and charges when he was making the 
reduced payments.
The investigator didn't recommend that Mr R's complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Next had responded reasonably when it asked Mr R to give details of his income and 
outgoings before agreeing a repayment plan.
Mr R disagrees with the investigator's recommendation but hasn't given further reasons why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm sorry to hear that Mr R was struggling financially but I don't find that Next did anything 
wrong.
I appreciate that Mr R wanted Next to accept the reduced monthly payments and stop 
charging interest and fees. Next has given me evidence that it sent Mr R a number of emails 
and letters asking him to provide information about his income and expenditure. I think it was 
reasonable of Next to ask for this kind of information before agreeing any repayment plan. 
I can't see that Mr R gave Next any information about his income and expenditure so it 
couldn't formalise a suitable repayment plan. I can't find that Next was wrong to continue 
applying the usual charges and interest. And I'm satisfied that Next made Mr R aware that it 
would keep applying interest and charges in line with the terms of his account until a 
repayment plan was agreed.
Overall, I'm satisfied that Next responded reasonably and sympathetically to Mr R's financial 
difficulties. It follows that I don't require Next to refund any charges or interest.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman