DRN-2866775
The complaint
Miss M complains that a loan given to her by UK Credit Limited was unaffordable.
What happened
In November 2018, Miss M applied for  and was given  a loan of £7,500. It was to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £325.91. She was to use around £5,800 of the loan to 
repay other debts and told UK Credit the remainder was for cash and some small home 
improvements. Miss M says UK Credit failed to carry out sufficient checks to ensure she 
could afford the loan. She says if it had, it would have refused to lend.
UK Credit looked into her complaint. In its response it agreed it should have carried out more 
checks. But if felt despite that, the loan was affordable for Miss M, and rejected her 
complaint.
Miss M didnt agree with UK Credit, so referred her complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into it. Our investigator agreed that UK Credit didnt do sufficient checks. 
He asked Miss M for bank statements for the period leading up to her application for the 
loan. Having reviewed those and the rest of the evidence on file, he felt that if UK Credit had 
done more, it ought to have refused to lend. He explained this to Miss M and UK Credit. 
Miss M accepted what our investigator said, but UK Credit didnt. It asked to see the bank 
statements our investigator relied on when reaching his opinion. After reviewing them, it said 
in summary, that it didnt agree the loan was unaffordable or that the checks were not 
proportionate or sufficient at the point of sale. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website. Ive 
considered this approach when deciding this complaint.
UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it 
didnt lend to Miss M irresponsibly. There are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss M was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M in some other way?
Its not about UK Credit assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the 
impact of the loan repayments on her. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a third party 
and the potential for UK Credit to pursue the guarantor instead doesnt alter its obligation.
UK Credit said repeatedly in its final response to Miss Ms complaint that its checks hadnt 
been thorough enough. I note however that after receiving our investigators opinion and 
reviewing the bank statements, it now feels they were. UK Credit has provided no evidence 
to explain why its changed its view on this point. 
Ive looked carefully at the evidence provided by both sides including UK Credits response 
to our investigator. I find myself agreeing with UK Credits first assessment of the checks  
that they were not sufficient for the reasons it set out in its final response to the complaint. Ill 
not repeat those reasons here as the parties to the complaint each have a copy.
Ive gone on to consider what it might have found had it carried out sufficient checks. I think 
it would have been reasonable for UK Credit to get a detailed understanding of Miss Ms 
expenditure, for example by asking to see several months of her bank statements. It had 
noted that her credit file showed she had defaulted on two credit agreements in the last 
month and was looking to increase her indebtedness by borrowing more than she already 
owed.
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). CONC 1.3 gives examples which 
may indicate a consumer is in financial difficulties. These include:
adverse entries on the consumers credit file which are not in dispute
an inability to meet repayments out of disposable income, for example, where there 
is evidence of non-payment of essential bills or the customer having to borrow further 
to repay existing debts.
Looking at Miss Ms bank statements I think they show signs that she was in financial 
difficulties. I say this because there are numerous important unpaid direct debits to items 
such as car insurance, road tax, HMRC and television licencing among others. There were 
also first payments to other loan providers and television packages. This isnt indicative of 
someone in control of their finances.
As mentioned above, Miss Ms credit file showed two accounts had defaulted within a month 
prior to her application for the loan. UK Credit asked her why these accounts had defaulted 
and she said, I missed a payment. The advisor prompted her further saying there were four 
payments missed and asked why  could she not afford the payments? She said she 
couldnt afford the payments and the reason for that was just a lack of judgement. The 
advisor asked a bit more about that and Miss M responded she just overspent trying to do 
everything. Again, this doesnt show someone in control of their finances. 
So its clear that Miss M was unable to meet her existing commitments to essential bills and 
also had adverse entries on her credit file so was likely to be experiencing financial difficulty. 
UK Credit would have seen this had it carried out sufficient and proportionate checks. 
With that in mind, I need to consider whether UK Credit reached a fair decision to lend to 
Miss M. In this instance, Miss M was repaying a significant amount of the credit she had 
outstanding which UK Credit argues would have helped her situation. But she was also 
borrowing a significant amount more than she needed for that purpose  around £1,700. 
This increased her indebtedness over a prolonged period at a high rate of interest when she 
was already showing signs of financial difficulty. I dont think UK Credit reached a fair 
decision when it agreed to lend to Miss M. Ive seen nothing to suggest that UK Credit has treated Miss M unfairly or unreasonably in 
any other way.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. In this case, that would mean putting Miss M in 
the position she would be in now if she hadnt been given the loan. But Miss M was given the 
loan, used the money, so its right she should pay it back. So, I think UK Credit should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss M made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. 
oIf the payments Miss M has made total more than the amount she was 
originally lent, then any surplus should be treated as overpayments and 
refunded to her with interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date 
they were made until the date of settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Miss M to pay, UK Credit 
should let her know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, affordable 
payment plan with her. I remind UK Credit of its obligation to treat customers 
fairly.
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ms credit file regarding the loan. 
*If UK Credit considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. UK Credit Limited should 
put things right for Miss M in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman