DRN-3386212
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has treated them unfairly with the 
decision made and handling of their claim on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a residential landlords insurance policy which is underwritten by AXA. 
In August 2021 Mr and Mrs S raised a claim under their insurance for damage caused to 
their property. The damage occurred before this date and they attempted to repair it, but 
they felt the extent of the damage meant theyd need to rely on their insurance. Mr and 
Mrs S say the damage was caused by the previous tenants who vacated the property 
without notice.
After the claim notification, AXA instructed its loss adjuster to review and assess the level of 
damage, this was because of the expected value of the claim. Mr and Mrs S confirmed that 
some works had already been completed when the loss adjuster attended the property as 
theyd been attempting to put things right so it could be re-let or sold. A large amount of 
damaged was caused to the property including:
Broken floor tiles.
Damaged carpets and appliances.
Taps pulled from the walls and holes in the walls.
Rubbish left inside and outside the property.
The septic tank had overflowed.
Damage from a leaked shower.
Mr and Mrs S also claimed for a number of months lost rent as a result of the property not 
being able to let.
AXA didnt think the damage claimed was the result of an insured event and didnt accept 
the claim. Mr and Mrs S complained about its claims decision and how the claim had been 
handled. AXA issued its final response on 12 January 2022 and said it was sorry that it took 
as long as it did to give its outcome to the claim. The decision to decline this wasnt provided 
until 18 November 2021, some months after the claim notification. 
AXA said it was sorry that its loss adjuster hadnt been clearer in the first instance on the 
reasons for repudiating the claim. It felt had this happened there would have been less 
confusion. But it maintained that the decision to repudiate the claim was correct and it didnt 
agree there was any error made. It said it had relied on expert evidence to decline the claim 
for the cracked tiles and that with multiple areas damaged throughout the house, all would 
be individual claims with individual excesses. It acknowledged that it could have been 
clearer in the response and awarded £50 to say sorry for this and a further £25 to reflect the 
delays in it responding to the claim.
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. She agreed, for the most part, that 
AXAs claim decision was fair. She felt AXA had been fair when considering the information 
provided about the cracked floor tiles and the damaged was declined inline with the policy 
cover. But she felt it was fair AXA reconsider the damage to the shower and the leak with 
this. She hadnt been provided with anything from AXA to show why this wasnt covered 
under the policy. She said if Mr and Mrs S had already paid for this repair, shed expect AXA 
to  include 8% interest on the cost of the policy.
She said some contents items had been claimed for under the policy, but as the policy was 
for the buildings only, this wasnt covered. She said that some things claimed would fall 
under the properties general maintenance and wouldnt be covered either.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the outcome. They accepted not all of what had been listed as 
needing fixing or replacing would be covered  but the details of everything were provided to 
give a full picture of what happened. They didnt think the expert report relied on by AXA or 
our investigator was sufficient evidence to show the floor tiles were not laid correctly. They 
said the information relied on and conveyed within the report was provided by them  Mrs S 
had provided information to support how the tiles were laid. They felt the photos could not 
have provided the information quoted based on a desk top assessment. 
They also highlighted that the bulk of the information theyd submitted had been lost due to 
an admin error by AXA and its loss adjusters administrator  this had been accepted by AXA 
in its final response to the complaint. They didnt think it was fair that in the absence of this, 
the claim was being repudiated. They felt the information being removed could be 
tantamount to gross insurance fraud and blaming home working and Covid 19 for this wasnt 
acceptable.
AXA hasnt provided a response.
Because Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether AXA has acted fairly when declining Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint. And at the centre of this, whether the information theyve relied on, or been able 
to rely on would have likely changed the outcome. Allegations of fraud are extremely serious 
and while I understand why Mr and Mrs S are upset about information being removed from 
the portal, Ive not seen anything to suggest this isnt the result of an admin error as 
explained.
Mr and Mrs Ss policy, like all insurance policies has a number of exclusions which limit the 
cover available. This includes the common exclusions of wear and tear. Relevant to this 
complaint and the damaged floor tiles is the exclusion of damage relating to poor 
workmanship, including damage relating to inherent defects. Our investigator set this term 
out in her view so Ive not quoted it again. AXA argue that from the evidence it has been 
provided, the cause of damage to the floor tiles as likely the result of them not being fitted 
with sufficient room for expansion with the heat of the underfloor heating system. It has 
relied on expert evidence compiled via desk assessment.Both AXA and Mr and Mrs S are aware of the contents of this report so I see no reason to 
quote it here. But in short, it supports the view that the floor tiles were not fitted correctly and 
this has resulted in the damage.
Mr and Mrs S received a number of quotes to have the tiles replaced. Their contractor said 
they believed the damage to be consistent with accidental damage with it being likely that 
something large had been dropped on the tiles causing them to crack.
The work on the property had started before AXA let Mr and Mrs S know that it was not 
intending to provide cover for the floor tiles or the rest of the claim. As a result, a further 
inspection could not be arranged to determine the likely cause of damage. And photos 
previously taken and uploaded to the portal had been removed in error.
Taking the above into account, I understand the frustration Mr and Mrs S have over the 
claim decision and their feeling that this has been based unfairly on a lack of information. It 
certainly isnt ideal that information submitted and uploaded has been lost part way through. 
However, I dont think this means that the decision reached isnt fair or reasonable. The 
number of tiles with damage indicates that either, a number of accidents occurred with 
something being dropped on the tiles a number of times, or that there was an inherent issue 
with the tiles. I think it is unlikely that so many tiles would be damaged accidentally and with 
no way of knowing how this could have happened with the tenants not being present to give 
their opinion on the cause, Ive needed to think about what is most likely to have happened.
I understand the concerns Mr and Mrs S have about the expert report but I think the 
explanation given as the potential cause of the damage is persuasive. I think it is more likely, 
based on the extent and number of damaged tiles that, errors made in the installation of 
these, has resulted in the damage. And I dont think that AXA has acted unreasonably when 
relying on this as a basis of its claims decision. 
I think AXA could have been clearer when making this decision that it wasnt guaranteed to 
cover the damage until it had properly considered the claim. In not doing this Mr and Mrs Ss 
expectations were not managed and they instructed work to start when expecting AXA would 
cover the costs. They would have always needed to have covered the repair costs 
themselves when the claim was declined, but I think it is fair that AXA recognised the impact 
of its failing here with its award for distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator said that she felt it was fair for AXA to consider the part of this claim relating 
to the leak in the bathroom. AXA had failed to provide anything to support why it hadnt 
covered this. So in the absence of anything to confirm it had made a fair claim decision, she 
asked that it reconsider and pay this. If Mr and Mrs S had completed the repairs previously, 
she asked that it pay 8% simple interest on top of this amount.
To date, AXA has still not provided a response on this to our service, so in the absence of 
anything for me to consider, I agree that AXA hasnt demonstrated its made a fair claims 
decision on this point and it should reconsider and pay this element of Mr and Mrs Ss claim.
Mr and Mrs Ss tenants left the property without notice and it was clear the property was not 
in a good state of repair following their departure. Mr and Mrs S undertook to try and 
complete all of the remedial works themselves and I think this indicates that for a point at 
least, they didnt believe the damage to be consistent with something covered under their 
policy. Ive not seen anything else which persuades me AXA has acted unfairly with how it 
has handled the other items of damage claimed for on this complaint and I dont think it 
needs to do anything, beyond reconsidering the claim for the shower leak.Putting things right
AXA should reconsider and pay for the damage caused by the shower leak in Mr and Mrs 
Ss property. 
If Mr and Mrs S have completed these repairs at their own expenses, on receipt of the 
invoices for the work, AXA should include 8% simple interest* on this payment from date of 
payment until date of settlement.
*If AXA feels it needs to deduct tax from this payment, it should upon request from Mr and 
Mrs S, provide a statement to confirm what has been deducted.
With Mr and Mrs S needing to complete a number of other repairs on the property, I think it 
is unlikely it would have been able to be re-let ahead of these being completed. But, AXA 
should consider whether it is appropriate to pay an element of lost rental income when 
considering the claim for the shower leak.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against AXA 
Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman