DRN-3031631
complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2001 as a standalone policy. Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)     
mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Js 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Halifax has said that the PPI, which is meant to protect monthly mortgage repayments, 
was sold as a standalone policy. Which means that it wasnt sold at the same time as a 
mortgage with Halifax. Mr J says he thinks that he transferred his mortgage from a 
different provider to Halifax at some point. But from the evidence Halifax has provided, at 
the time of the sale, Mr J did not have and did not take out a mortgage with Halifax. 
On balance, I think its more likely Halifax made it clear that Mr J didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out. Halifax no longer has any documents from the sale 
itself, which isnt unreasonable considering the sale was around 20 years ago. But 
considering that Mr J wasnt taking any borrowing from Halifax, I think it would have been 
clear that the policy was an optional, stand-alone product. And that Mr J approached 
Halifax with the intention of taking out protection for his mortgage repayments. The 
product Mr J purchased was called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan which could 
include PPI, life cover and critical illness cover. Mr J chose only to take out the PPI and 
declined the life and critical illness cover. So I think he was aware he could amend the 
policy to suit his needs and decline anything he didnt want. 
Halifax no longer has a record of how the policy was sold. To be fair to Mr J, it has 
treated the sale as an advised sale. Because of this, Halifax had to check that the PPI 
was right for Mr J. And the evidence about Mr Js circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr J was 
eligible for the cover and while he did have some savings and redundancy pay available 
to him, the policy could have paid out for up to 24 months per claim if he was too ill to 
work, had an accident or was made unemployed. And this is a longer pay-out than the 
means he already had available to him. Mr J has also said he had a separate accident 
and insurance policy with another provider but couldnt recall who with or what the terms 
and exclusions of the policy were. Because of this, it isnt clear if the separate policy 
would have made the PPI unsuitable. In any event, the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any other benefits he had, so I think he could have found it useful.
There was nothing about Mr Js employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect his ability to claim. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr J as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr J would have declined the 
cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Js circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think 
he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr J would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Js representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Js representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Js individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Js particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman