DRN-2978344
The complaint
Mr S complains about problems with TSB Bank plc when ordering new debit cards. 
What happened
Mr S downgraded his current account with TSB in January 2021 and asked for a non 
contactless debit card. Mr S has told us TSB sent replacement cards that were contactless 
and that they didnt work in cash machines. As a result replacement cards had to be issued. 
Mr S complained and TSB paid him £50 to apologise for problems when issuing new debit 
cards. Mr S later referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
TSB said its records indicated it had only issued non contactless debit cards to Mr S. TSB 
also said statement evidence showed Mr S debit cards had worked in cash machines. Our 
investigator thought TSB had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr S asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says the new debit cards he was sent by TSB were contactless and not in line with the 
type of card he requested. But TSB has sent in systems information that indicates non 
contactless cards were dispatched, as requested. That being said, TSB has paid Mr S £50 to 
apologise for problems hes experienced. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances of Mr 
S complaint. 
Its not clear why Mr S has experienced difficulties with the replacement cards hes been 
sent. The statement evidence shows Mr S has been able to withdraw funds at cash 
machines but hes later reported problems with cards that had been working. I can 
understand how frustrating this is, but I havent seen anything that indicates the cards 
stopped working as a result of an error or mistake by TSB. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied TSB had dealt with his complaint fairly, Im 
not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because TSB Bank plc has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
