DRN-2486549
The complaint
Mr N complains that a car he took on finance from N.I.I.B. Group Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and that he should be able to reject it. N.I.I.B. Group Limited trades as 
Northridge Finance.  
What happened
In September 2019 Mr N took a car from Northridge Finance under a four-year hire-purchase
agreement. The agreement recorded that the cash price for the car was just under £15,000,
that it had been first registered in July 2016 and had a recorded mileage of just under
34,500. Mr N was to make monthly payments of £233.89. The agreement also said that
there would be a mileage cap equivalent to about 7,300 miles a year; if Mr N exceeded that
mileage, he would have to pay an additional charge of 9p a mile (which would be pro-rated if
the agreement didnt run its full course).
Within a month of taking the car, Mr N reported problems with it. Specifically, he said that the
boot was leaking. The dealership attempted repairs on two occasions, but they were
unsuccessful. It was difficult to arrange a mutually convenient time and location for further
work to be done (the dealership has a number of branches, not all of them convenient for Mr
N), but the car was booked in for repairs for a third time in early March 2020. Mr N was
provided with a courtesy car, although he said it wasnt suitable for his needs.
On 9 March Mr N said he intended to reject the car if it wasnt ready by 13 March. He was
told that it was ready on that date, but says that, when he went to collect it, an indicator stalk
was missing. He nevertheless returned the courtesy car; the dealership offered to pay the
costs of hiring an alternative. Mr N said he would give the dealership one final opportunity to
repair the car.
On 17 March the dealership said it was ordering new parts  a boot seal and indicator stalk 
and that the car should be ready the following day. Mr N responded by saying that he was
rejecting the car. On 25 March the dealership wrote to Mr N to say that the repairs had been
completed but, because of Covid-19 restrictions introduced a couple of days earlier, it wasnt
open for business; Mr N could collect the car when it was safe and legal to do so.
The car has remained at the dealership since then, and Northridge Finance has continued to
collect monthly hire payments by direct debit.
Mr N referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had
happened. She thought that it would be fair to allow Mr N to end the hire purchase
agreement and for Northridge Finance to refund the deposit and the payments made under it
(subject to a reduction to reflect the use Mr N had had of the car) and to pay Mr N a further
£100.
Northridge Finance didnt accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an
ombudsman review the case.  
I did that and, because I was likely to reach a different overall conclusion from that reached 
by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. In that provisional decision I said, in 
summary:
It wasnt really in dispute that the car was not of satisfactory quality, but I agreed in any 
event that it was not. Specifically, the boot was leaking. 
Despite several attempts to repair the leak, it wasnt until several months after Mr N had 
reported the problem that a new seal was ordered. 
The repair was not carried out within a reasonable time as required by the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015. Nor was it carried out without inconvenience to Mr N  also a 
requirement under the Act. 
Mr N had however agreed to give the dealership a further opportunity to repair the car in 
March 2020, so it should have the opportunity to complete that repair.
Mr N could have collected the car soon after 1 June 2020, when Covid-19 restrictions 
were relaxed. 
In the circumstances I thought a fair resolution would be for Mr N to have a refund of 
hire payments hed made between 1 March and 1 June 2020, together with interest at 
the contractual rate, and that Northridge Finance should pay him a further £300 in 
recognition of the inconvenience to which hed been put. 
Mr N didnt accept my provisional findings. He thought I had relied too heavily on the 
dealerships statement that the leak had been repaired. He didnt believe it had been, and it 
would not be possible to see that until the car was used in wet weather.
Northridge Finance has not responded to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I havent changed my view from that which I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
I note that Mr N says the repairs have still not been carried out to a satisfactory standard. He 
has not however been able to provide evidence of that. However, I acknowledged in my 
provisional decision that I was assuming the leak had been repaired after the dealership 
fitted a new seal. In my view that was and, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, 
remains a reasonable basis on which to proceed. 
I observed in my provisional decision that Mr N had been able to use the car extensively 
from September 2019 until March 2020. Indeed, he exceeded his mileage allowance in that 
time. He was then prevented from using the car because government restrictions meant he 
couldnt collect it. To some extent, however, that was the fault of the dealership and 
Northridge Finance, because the car should have been repaired by that point. For that 
reason, I thought it fair that Mr N should receive a refund of hire payments for the time when 
he couldnt collect the car.         Putting things right
In addition to a refund of the hire payments made between 1 March and 1 June 2020, Mr N 
should receive interest on those payments at the contractual rate  reflecting the cost to him 
of not having those funds. I also believe that a payment of £300 to reflect the inconvenience 
to him is appropriate and fair.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ns complaint, N.I.I.B. Group Limited should refund 
any hire payments made between 1 March 2020 and 1 June 2020, together with interest at 
the contractual rate of 8.5% a year from the date of payment to the date of the refund. It 
should also pay Mr N a further £300 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has 
been put. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman