DRN-2476617
The complaint
Ms L has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim she 
made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms L held a home insurance policy with UKI. The policy included home emergency cover. 
UKI delegated responsibility for managing its home emergency repair operation to another 
company, which Ill call A. However, for simplicity Ill generally refer to UKI in this decision.
On 12 March 2020, Ms L noted water dripping through a light fitting in her kitchen ceiling. 
She contacted UKI which arranged for one of its authorised repairers to visit her property.
The repairer attended the property later that day. He cut a hole in the kitchen ceiling to 
locate the problem but advised Ms L that he needed to call upon a heating engineer to 
resolve the problem.
A heating engineer arrived the next day. He fixed the problem, which was due to an air vent 
in the airing cupboard. However, he advised Ms L there was evidence of corrosion to the 
flue. He therefore said he was under a duty of care to turn off the boiler.
Ms L was surprised because the boiler had been serviced in October 2019 and shed 
experienced no problems with it previously. She switched the boiler back on but shortly 
afterwards found it had stopped working. This was apparently due to an air lock which she 
believed had been created when the heating engineer fixed the leak. She contacted the 
heating engineer who advised he was waiting for parts to be delivered before he could come 
back to work on the boiler.
Three days later, the heating engineer called Ms L to advise that UKI had not given him 
authorisation to return to fix the problem with the boiler.
Ms L called out her own heating engineer who advised her that the flue could be changed at 
any time and that this didnt prevent action being taken to fix the air lock and thus reinstate 
the heating.
Ms L asked UKI to cover the cost of her getting her own engineer to fix the heating system 
and her own builder to repair the damage which had been caused to her kitchen ceiling.
UKI said it couldnt cover the cost of her own engineer fixing the heating system. It said its 
heating engineer had reported that the main issue was with the flue which had been caused 
by the poor installation of the pipework when the home was built. This wasnt covered by her 
policy. The engineers recommendation was that the boiler should be replaced, which was 
also not covered. In respect of the hole to the ceiling, it said Ms L would need to make a 
claim for the repair of this under the buildings section of her policy.
Ms L complained to UKI about its handling of the claim. She said the boiler had been 
working fine until the engineer carried out his repair. She said that, even if the flue did need 
replacing, this had nothing to do with the current problem which she believed hed caused.
On 20 March 2020, unable to get any other engineer who was willing to flush the system to 
clear the air lock and frustrated at having no heating, Ms L asked another company (which 
Ill call B) to install a new boiler. 
Ms L complained to UKI about its handling of the claim. She had found it confusing having to 
deal with A, who in turn appeared to have sub-contracted the repairs to other companies. 
She considered the heating engineer had caused the problem with her boiler which had until 
then been operating perfectly well. She wanted UKI to pay towards her new boiler and to 
cover the cost of fixing the hole in her ceiling.  
UKI and A, acting on UKIs behalf, issued separate final response letters to Ms L. A said the 
heating engineer had identified issues with the boiler and that, after considering his report, 
the home emergency team had deemed the boiler beyond economic repair. It said the policy 
offered £250 towards the cost of a new boiler in such circumstances and invited Ms L to 
provide evidence shed purchased a new boiler so that she could receive this sum. UKI said 
that damage caused to decoration, fixtures or fittings during a home emergency callout was 
not covered under the home emergency cover but that Ms L could claim for this under the 
buildings section of her home insurance policy.
Ms L was unhappy at the responses. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She considered 
it was reasonable for UKI to use external contractors and that it had acted in accordance 
with the terms of the policy in the way it had settled the claim. She didnt consider that the 
heating engineer had been shown to have done anything wrong. However, she thought 
UKIs communication had been poor with the result that Ms L had been left to chase the 
heating engineer directly to find out what was happening with her claim. She considered that 
UKI should pay Ms L £250 compensation for the trouble and upset this poor communication 
had caused.
Ms L didnt accept the investigators findings. She considered that the claim had been 
handled very poorly, with no-one at UKI taking ownership of the problem which the heating 
engineer had created. She said this had resulted in her having to unnecessarily purchase a 
new boiler.
UKI also didnt accept the investigators findings. It considered that £150 compensation was 
more appropriate for its poor communication.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L said the boiler was working perfectly well until the heating engineer visited. She has 
pointed out it was regularly serviced, most recently in October 2019. She considers that the 
engineer created an air lock which was the only reason it stopped working. She considers 
that it was therefore up to UKI to fix that air lock and restore the heating system. She says its 
failure to do so led to her buying a new boiler which wasnt otherwise needed.UKIs records show that an engineer had attended to a problem with Ms Ls boiler in 
November 2018 and had noted that the flue was missing the cross hairs which meant birds 
could potentially gain access. When the engineer attended in March 2020, he found that 
there was heavy corrosion around the flue, heavy leakage inside and an airlock in the 
system. He considered the main problem was the poor installation of the pipework from 
when the house was built. He considered the boiler was unsafe. Based on the nature of the 
problem, and the age and condition of the boiler, UKI deemed the boiler beyond economic 
repair.
I consider that this was a reasonable decision for UKI to take. The evidence indicates that 
the flue was in a very poor and potentially dangerous condition. The fact that Ms L had had 
the boiler serviced some five months earlier doesnt mean that it hadnt reached the stage 
where it needed replacing. Ms L says that the heating engineer caused the airlock when he 
fixed the leak but I dont have any expert evidence to indicate that the engineer acted 
incorrectly in any way. Ms L provided an email from B in March 2020 saying that the flue 
simply needed a terminal guard fitted to prevent a blockage. However, B apparently had not 
inspected the flue following the engineers report when it sent this and its comment seems to 
be addressing only the issue of the missing cross hairs and not the reported corrosion. 
I dont consider that Ms L has provided reasonable evidence to show the heating engineer 
was at fault or that the boiler could be easily repaired. 
The home emergency section of the policy states:
We will pay up to £500 (including VAT) for each emergency assistance call out to cover the 
cost of:
- the call out
- labour at your home
- parts
However, it also states:
If we find out your boiler is beyond economic repair, we will pay £250 towards the cost of a 
new one.
In the circumstances, I consider it was reasonable for UKI to say that it wouldnt cover the 
cost of further repairs to Ms Ls boiler but to instead offer £250 towards the cost of its 
replacement.
With regard to the hole in Ms Ls ceiling, I consider that the initial contractor would 
reasonably have needed to make this while he was trying to trace the source of the leak. 
The home emergency section of the policy states:
We wont pay for  loss of or damage to any decoration, fixtures or fittings that happens 
during an emergency assistance call out (note you may be covered if you have cover under 
Sections 1 and/or 2 of this policy)
The buildings section of the policy confirms that cover is provided for repairing damage 
caused by tracing and accessing an escape of water.
In light of this, I consider it was correct for UKI to advise Ms L that it wasnt obliged to repair 
the hole in the roof under her home emergency claim but that she could make a separate 
claim for this repair under her buildings cover.
While I therefore think that UKI carried out appropriate repairs and offered to settle Ms Ls 
claim in an appropriate way, I nonetheless consider its communication was poor.The policy states that UKI will appoint an authorised repairer to carry out emergency repairs 
under the home emergency cover. However, I dont think this makes clear that UK had 
contracted out the management of the home emergency cover to another company, A, who 
in turn would sub-contract out the repair work to further companies. I dont think UKI properly 
explained this to Ms L and I can understand how she became confused as to who she 
should be dealing with.
Furthermore, I consider it was very poor that A, on behalf of UKI, decided that Ms Ls boiler 
was beyond economic repair and that no further work should be carried out on it, yet it did 
not properly inform her of this decision. As a result, she only found out after chasing the 
heating engineer who had been sub-contracted to do the work. And UKI still didnt tell Ms L 
she was entitled to £250 towards the cost of a new boiler until she made her complaint. 
I consider that this poor communication would have caused considerable frustration to Ms L 
whom, it was clear from her correspondence, was getting anxious about her non-working 
boiler, particularly as this was at a time when the country was about to enter lockdown due 
to the coronavirus.
I consider that UKI should pay Ms L £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to 
her by its poor communication.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms L £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman