DRN-3997364
The complaint
Mr P complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED, trading as Fund Ourselves (FOL), lent to 
him when he could not afford it. 
What happened
Mr P took three loans from FOL. The first one was in 2019 and hes told us that hes not 
complaining about that first loan.
Mr P has informed us that FOL took payment for the final loan in September 2022 and so its 
been paid off. 
Here is a brief table of the loans and the first one is not being considered as part of this 
complaint. 
Loan Amount Approved Instalments Repaid
1 £200 22 January 2019 4 x £90 month 9 March 2019*
gap in lending
2 £250 14 January 2022 4 x £121 month 25 March 2022*
3 £500 12 April 2022 5 x £200 month September 2022
*repaid early. 
Mr P raised a complaint with FOL by email and it sent to him its final response letter dated 
August 2022. In that response letter FOL explained why it was not upholding his complaint. 
Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators 
considered it and wrote to both parties to give her view which was that she did not think that 
the complaint should be upheld. Mr P was not content and sent additional documentation to  
show that he actually paid some of the instalments on loan 2 late and so that ought to have 
placed FOL on notice that he was struggling. So, when he came back to apply for loan 3 it 
ought to have realised and done proper and more thorough checks. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
FOL had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. FOLs checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps income and 
expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest FOL should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. 
FOL was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Ive had the benefit of being able to review detailed credit search documents relating to 
Mr Ps financial situation together with Mr Ps bank statements which he has sent to us to 
support his complaint. Im aware of the other complaints Mr P has had with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and so I have gathered a fairly detailed picture. 
But the circumstances for this complaint are that Mr Ps loan 2 was the start of a new loan 
chain and was for a relatively modest sum. Although I have noted Mr Ps point about being 
late for the first two instalments of loan 2, he then repaid the balance early. And so, his 
submission that it ought to have given FOL an alert to there being a problem is not 
particularly persuasive. 
Mr P did not come back to apply for loan 3 until several weeks after repaying loan 2. When 
assessing the creditworthiness for loan 3, the early repayment on loan 2, plus the non-
sequential lending would all be factors FOL would have considered. 
At loan 2, the FOL credit search did show that Mr P had opened two accounts in the 
previous six months and that is not a high number. 
Loan 3 was for a relatively modest sum of £500. Mr P had declared a good income each 
month (after tax) and I have seen that credited to Mr Ps bank account - around £3,110 each 
month. FOLs credit searches did indicate that hed a significant amount of debt. At loan 2, Mr P had 
around £11,550 debt balance across all his revolving credit accounts (which includes credit 
cards) and just over £13,000 on loans. At loan 3 this had increased on the loan debt but had 
decreased on the credit card debt. 
Information I have found from the credit search documents are that Mr P had two defaults 
registered. One related to one credit card from in August 2018 and the other was for a loan  
in October 2018 (the loan had started in March 2015). Mr P has mentioned this default in his 
submissions to us. And the credit card default had dropped off Mr Ps credit file when he 
applied for loan 3. So only one from October 2018 registered for the loan 3 application. 
But as the £250 application was in January 2022 and the £500 loan application was in 
April 2022 then I doubt that would have been much of a concern for FOL. Lenders of this 
nature are used to seeing credit searches with some adverse information included. And 
these defaults were a significant period before. 
At loan 3, if, as Mr P has indicated, FOL ought to have carried out further checks, then 
I have reviewed his bank statements to satisfy myself what it may have discovered if it had 
done that. Mr P was hardly in his overdraft until the last few days leading up to his salary 
being credited on 20 April 2022. Plus, there were no returned direct debits or transactions 
likely to have caused FOL anything to be concerned about.
But for FOLs sake, I reiterate here that I would not have expected FOL to have sought and 
reviewed copies of Mr Ps bank statements for a loan of £500 when the loan before it had 
been repaid early. I would have considered that to have been disproportionate. 
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman