DRN-2489370
The complaint
 The administrator of the estate of Mr S is unhappy with Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as 
Halifax (Halifax)  because he says that Halifax didnt inform Mr S when it reduced the 
interest rate on his on his 60 Day Gold passbook account (Gold passbook account) and 
that Mr S lost out on interest that he couldve earned as a result.
What happened
 Mr S died on 25 March 2018. Mr Ss nephew was appointed as administrator of Mr Ss 
estate. Mr S held a Gold passbook account with Halifax, which had a low rate of interest. 
After reading a news article, the administrator thought that Mr S had been affected by a 
problem that Halifax had when it didnt tell customers about interest rate reductions and had 
lost out as a result because they didnt have the opportunity to compare with other products.
 
Halifax said not all customers wouldve been affected and said as Mr Ss account was not 
included in the rectification exercise, it was confident it was not impacted. 
It didnt uphold the administrators complaint, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Halifax told our investigator that the rate on the Gold passbook account hadnt changed 
since 2009, and the error it had identified only affected accounts from 2014 onwards. Halifax 
provided evidence that showed correspondence was sent to the correct address, and what 
was sent and when. This showed that Halifax had sent a number of letters to Mr S, including 
letters in November 2015, and October 2017 that both referenced the interest rate. 
Based on this, our investigator thought that Mr S wouldnt have been affected by Halifaxs 
error. He also thought that Mr S would have been aware of the rate on his account and could 
have looked into changing to a different account if he wasnt happy with the interest rate. 
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the 
complaint.
After further investigation, Halifax said it had found that that the interest rate on the account 
had dropped from 0.1% to 0.05% from December 2016 to November 2017. It said Mr S 
would have been aware of this because he had a rate notification letter in November 2017. 
This information did not change our investigators view.
 
The administrator was not happy with this and so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The administrator believes that Mr S lost out on interest because Halifax didnt tell him 
about interest rate reductions on his Gold passbook account. The administrator couldnt find 
any correspondence relating to interest rates and he says Mr S kept all financial 
correspondence, so he thought that nothing had been sent. 
  
Halifax said a rectification project was carried out to deal with the particular issue that the 
administrator referred to. It had affected savings accounts from 2014 onwards and not all 
customers wouldve been affected. Halifax couldnt trace Mr Ss account as impacted. 
Halifax provided information to show that the interest rate on the 60 Day Gold passbook 
account changed on 1 February 2009 and initially said the rate hadnt changed since then. 
Halifax subsequently found that it had reduced the interest on that account from 0.1% to 
0.05% in December 2016 (it went back to 0.1% in November 2017) and provided evidence 
that notification of the rate reduction was sent to Mr S. In the light of this information, I think 
its reasonable to conclude that Mr Ss Gold passbook account was not affected by the error 
Halifax had identified.
The administrator is also generally concerned that a failure by Halifax to send 
communications about interest rates may have caused that Mr S not to look around for 
better options.
Halifax has provided evidence to show what was sent to Mr S over the years. Halifax 
evidenced the address history for the accounts which confirms that it held the right address. 
Halifax also provided a list of all marketing and servicing letters sent out to Mr S from 2011 
and screen prints which show what was sent out to Mr S specifically about his Gold 
passbook account, and when it was sent. I understand that the correspondence about 
interest rates is not in Mr Ss filing, and that this is not what the administrator would have 
expected, but based on the evidence that Halifax has provided, I have no reason to think 
that it was not sent to him at the correct address, and I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible 
for any issues with the postal system. 
 
Halifax has produced records showing that it sent letters to Mr S about the interest rate on 
his Gold passbook account in November 2015, September 2016 and November 2017, and 
has provided templates and samples of the type of letters it sent. As such, they are not 
exactly what was sent, but Halifax has shown through its records that these letters were sent 
to Mr S. The 2015 letter was the first letter sent out about the rate of interest on the account. 
It was sent as a reminder to passbook customers of their interest rate, implementing a new 
process to make sure passbook customers were aware of their interest rates. Businesses 
change and improve their processes from time to time, but it doesnt mean that they were 
acting unfairly before that. So, I cant fairly say that Halifax shouldve done anything 
differently before then.
Given the communications sent to Mr S, I think its likely that he would have been aware that 
the interest rate on his account was low and so had the information he needed to decide 
whether his account still met his needs. But in any event, as Halifax has not done anything 
wrong, I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for his not earning more interest on his savings.
In the light of this, I am not upholding the administrators complaint and I wont be asking 
Halifax to do anything. I know that the administrator will be disappointed by this, but I have to 
take account of the evidence produced by both parties to reach a fair conclusion. 
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the administrator 
of the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman