DRN-3687617
The complaint
A company Ill call R complains that Funding Circle Ltd treated it unfairly by declining its
application for a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) and giving the business a
Bounce Back Loan (BBL) instead, which it failed to provide correctly.
The complaint is brought on Rs behalf by its directors, Mr and Mrs P. For ease Ill refer to
Mr P throughout the decision.
What happened
R was an existing customer of Funding Circle. In May 2020, R applied to Funding Circle for a
£100,000 CBIL, but the application was declined. Funding Circle told Mr P this was because
Rs application had failed its checks and suggested R apply for a BBL as this was subject to
different criteria.
R applied for a £41,350 BBL with Funding Circle in August. The application was approved
and credited to Rs account within three weeks. However, when the loan was drawn down,
Funding Circle withdrew around £14,000 to clear the outstanding arrears on an existing loan.
This meant R only received around £27,000, rather than the £41,350 it was expecting.
Mr P made a complaint. He said R had been trying to get financial assistance from Funding
Circle through a difficult trading period, but it hadnt helped. He was unhappy that Funding
Circle had declined the CBIL application, forced R to take a BBL instead, not provided Rs
loan information and redemption statements when requested, and taken funds from the BBL
without warning. He also thought Funding Circle had breached its terms and conditions.
Funding Circle upheld some of the complaints. It apologised for the delay in providing the
loan information Mr P had requested, and that R had incorrectly been told it would receive
the full BBL funds. But it said the CBIL application had been correctly declined and that the
BBL had been suggested to give R access to alternative finance as it was unable to get the
CBIL.
Funding Circle said that the BBL agreement should have said that R would only receive the
balance of funds after any arrears had been cleared on other loans held with it. The lender
explained that normally if a customer was in arrears with any loan held with Funding Circle,
they wouldnt be able to apply for further borrowing  but it was looking to support customers
during the challenging circumstances of the coronavirus pandemic. So it didnt think it had
done anything wrong in using the BBL funds to clear the arrears on Rs other loan, but it
apologised that this hadnt been set out in the documentation and offered R £100
compensation.
Mr P didnt think this was fair. He asked Funding Circle to reverse the BBL as though it
hadnt been received  including reinstating the arrears on Rs other loan. Mr P also asked
the lender to cover the time hed spent to resolve the complaint, which totalled several
thousand pounds. When Funding Circle didnt agree with Mr Ps requests, he asked this
service to look into the companys complaints.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Funding Circle had
fairly declined Rs application for a CBIL. However, she thought Funding Circle had treated R
unfairly by some of the funds to clear the arrears on Rs other loan without its agreement. So
she thought Funding Circle should reinstate the BBL and give R the option to repay the
arrears if it chose to.
The investigator also thought R had been caused inconvenience by Funding Circle from
poor service and communication at times. However she didnt agree that Funding Circle
should pay the invoices Mr P had provided for the time hed spent trying to resolve the
complaints. Rather, she recommended that Funding Circle pay R compensation of £500.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said hed spent a significant amount of time
dealing with the complaint over and above what was required of a director, so he thought
Funding Circle should pay him for his time. He also said a member of Funding Circles staff
was looking at his social media account which was causing him distress.
Funding Circle didnt agree with the investigators opinion either. It said in summary that:
Using the BBL funds to repay the outstanding loan arrears was for Rs benefit as it
reduced the risk of default and stopped additional interest being incurred.
Allocating BBL funds to the outstanding loan arrears meant it could meet its
obligation to its investors and this was in line with the Scheme rules as it reduced Rs
cashflow disruption from the higher interest payments caused by the arrears.
R had received a BBL from another lender which had been paid out in May 2020. As
a business could only have one loan under the BBL Scheme, it would be a breach of
the Scheme rules if it reinstated this BBL.
It would pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused to R by the error the
BBL drawdown and not providing redemption statements for the BBL and Rs other
loan quickly enough when they were requested.
It had addressed the social media review with its staff and explained this was an
innocent mistake due to Mr Ps public profile and apologised for the distress caused.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 July 2022. I said the following:
R and Funding Circle have both provided detailed evidence about this complaint. Ive 
taken on board all their points  although Im not going to respond to each point 
individually. Instead Ill address what I consider to be the key complaint points which 
are whether it was fair for Funding Circle to decline Rs CBIL application, if Funding 
Circle processed the BBL application and drawdown correctly, and the overall service 
provided to R.
Declined CBIL application
The lenders CBIL terms and conditions say that a borrower must meet various 
eligibility criteria to receive a loan, and even if they meet the criteria, there is still no 
guarantee that Funding Circle will provide the CBIL. Ive seen a copy of Funding 
Circles CBIL assessment criteria which say that it would undertake credit checks and 
consider the specific industry sector to demonstrate the borrower met the Scheme 
criteria. In this case, Funding Circle has confirmed that as part of the application 
process, it credit checked both R, and Mr and Mrs P as the declared shareholders, and declined the application as the parties to the application didnt meet its criteria. 
That was a decision Funding Circle was entitled to make and I think it was 
reasonable.
Mr P says he was given different reasons for Rs declined application, and I can see 
this caused him frustration. However, Funding Circle has explained that on one 
occasion Mr P was incorrectly told that Rs application had been declined as it was in 
arrears on its other loan held with Funding Circle. And the lenders normal process is 
to decline applications for additional lending where this is the case. However, Ive 
seen that Funding Circle clarified the correct reason with Mr P shortly after and that 
this didnt affect the outcome of the application.
BBL application and payment of loan
Mr P has made a number of points about how Funding Circle coerced R to take out 
the BBL and took funds from the BBL to repay the arrears on Rs other loan without 
warning. While the complaint has been with us, it has come to light that R wasnt 
eligible for the BBL that it obtained from Funding Circle in the first place. This is 
because it already had a BBL at the time that it applied to Funding Circle.
Ive seen a copy of the BBL application which Mr P signed on Rs behalf. The 
declaration which he agreed to says I/We confirm that this is my/our only application 
for a Bounce Back Loan for this business, and I am/we are not [] in the process of 
applying for or has already received a Bounce Back Loan. Ive also seen that Mr P 
signed a further document as part of Rs loan offer which was titled Confirmation of 
no other BBLS loans which asked him to confirm that R didnt have a BBL 
elsewhere. So I think Mr P ought reasonably to have been aware before applying for 
a BBL with Funding Circle, that as R already had a BBL with another lender, it wasnt 
eligible to apply again. And that in doing so, it would be a breach of the Scheme 
rules.
Mr P believes that Funding Circle should have raised this when it received Rs BBL
application. But applicants were required to self-declare that they were eligible for the
Scheme. This meant that any borrowing provided under the Scheme was based on 
the declarations signed by the borrower  and a lender was able to rely on this.
Mr P says that because Funding Circle took funds from Rs BBL when it was drawn 
down, he felt there was no option but to request that the BBL was cancelled and that 
all transactions relating to it be reversed. He also says the lender actioned this in 
October 2020, but this had a detrimental effect on Rs finances, and a significant 
impact on him as a director because the lender breached its terms and conditions.
Its not disputed by either party that Funding Circle made an error when it took 
around £14,000 of the BBL funds to clear the arrears on Rs other loan. The lender 
has apologised for this and explained that the loan agreement signed by R was 
incorrect and should have made it clear this was part of the requirements when 
taking out a BBL with Funding Circle. The lender has also explained that it believed it 
was acting within the spirit of the Scheme by doing this, as it would have reduced the 
interest R was incurring. Funding Circle has accepted it made a mistake and offered 
£100 compensation  which it has said it is still available should R wish to accept it.
I recognise Mr P doesnt feel this is enough, but what I have to consider here is that 
R was never eligible for the second BBL. Therefore, I cant reasonably award 
compensation for the impact caused to R from not having received all the loan funds when it wasnt actually entitled to them. Im also not recommending that Funding 
Circle reinstate Rs BBL for the same reason.
Mr P has told us that he feels Funding Circle forced R to take out a BBL. But Im not
persuaded thats the case. I say this because, Mr P has told us he believes Funding 
Circle didnt do enough to support R during the Coronavirus pandemic. But after the 
lender had declined Rs CBIL application, it suggested the alternative government 
BBL Scheme. I think this was reasonable and havent seen that Funding Circle 
applied any undue pressure on Mr P or the company. I acknowledge Mr P may have 
felt that R had no other borrowing options due to the decline of the CBIL application, 
but I think its reasonable to believe it could have applied for alternative borrowing 
elsewhere.
Mr P has also told us that hes unhappy that the BBL is showing as settled on Rs 
account with Funding Circle rather than returned which he believes is more 
accurate. But R did have the benefit of the BBL for a period of several months  even 
if part of it was used to clear the outstanding arrears on the other loan. Funding 
Circle is required to keep accurate records of any borrowing provided to its 
customers. And in this case, I think its reasonable for the lender to show that the 
loan was provided and then settled, as this is a true reflection of what took place.
Customer Service and inconvenience
Mr P is unhappy with the overall service hes received from Funding Circle. He says 
the lender hasnt kept accurate records for R. Ive seen that Rs account history with 
the lender wasnt updated correctly for the CBIL and showed that the lender was 
awaiting documents after the application had been declined. I can understand why 
this caused Mr P frustration as he was concerned about a wider impact on R. 
However I havent seen any evidence this had an impact on R and note that it was 
still able to make a successful application for a BBL. But I think Funding Circle should 
update its records for R, so they accurately reflect the status of the application.
Mr P says Funding Circles error with the BBL drawdown led to extra work for Rs 
directors to resolve the issue, including numerous calls and emails. He has provided 
invoices totalling several thousand pounds which he says are for the additional work 
required as Rs director. But we dont award compensation based on hourly rates - 
we look at the complaint to understand the overall impact on the complainant and 
make an award based on this.
I recognise that Mr P says has spent time dealing with this matter which he might 
otherwise have spent running the business. But as I mentioned previously, I dont 
think I can fairly award R compensation for inconvenience for matters relating to the 
BBL, when the company ought not to have applied for it in the first place.
Mr P is also unhappy that Funding Circles staff accessed his social media accounts. 
I recognise that this caused Mr P frustration and that, due to the breakdown in the 
relationship between the parties, he was concerned about the nature of this. 
However, its difficult for me to conclude that the Funding Circle staff reviewed Mr Ps 
publicly available account for anything other than the reasons the lender has 
confirmed, as I have no evidence to the contrary. Ive seen that Funding Circle has 
apologised for this and I think its done enough to put things right.
Mr P told us that Rs directors have been caused distress and inconvenience due to 
Funding Circles actions, and that in particular this has had a detrimental effect on 
their mental health. But this complaint has been brought on Rs behalf, so R is the eligible complainant. This means that I cant look at any distress or inconvenience 
caused to Mr P in a personal capacity. As R is a limited company it cant be caused 
distress, which means I can only look at the inconvenience caused to it by Funding 
Circles actions.
Looking at the complaint I can see that there was a significant amount of contact 
between Mr P and Funding Circle, and that the relationship became strained. Ive 
seen that it was difficult at times for the lender to communicate with Mr P because of 
the increasing level of frustration. But Ive also seen that Funding Circle did make 
errors in the information they provided to Mr P in relation to the BBL redemption 
statement and that this wasnt always in the timescale theyd agreed. And as a result 
of this, Mr P spent more time escalating issues to the lender and away from his role 
as a director. So I think there were times that Funding Circle didnt treat R fairly. 
However, Ive seen that Funding Circle has apologised for the delays and offered £50 
compensation for the inconvenience.
Funding Circle has accepted that it shouldnt have used some of the funds from the 
BBL to clear the outstanding arrears on Rs existing loan and that caused R 
inconvenience. It has also accepted it didnt provide the BBL redemption statements 
as quickly as it should have. However, Funding Circle has apologised for these errors 
and offered a total of £150 compensation  which it says is still available to R. 
Bearing in mind what Ive said about the cause of the error, I wont be asking it to pay 
more compensation.
I recognise Mr P will be disappointed with my decision as he wanted the BBL 
reinstated and more compensation. But based on what Ive seen, I think Funding 
Circle as has done enough to put things right - so I wont be asking it to do anything 
further. 
I invited Mr P and Funding Circle to give me any more evidence and information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. Funding Circle accepted the decision and 
said it had nothing further to add. Mr P didnt accept my provisional decision. He said in 
summary:
He was unsure of the relevance of R already having a BBL. He was unaware that it 
was only possible to have one BBL when applying to Funding Circle for one, noting 
that he was under stress at the time and that there was little information about the 
BBL Scheme available. He said Funding Circle should have checked whether R had 
a BBL when processing its application, rather than relying on its self-declaration.
Although R wasnt eligible for the second BBL, it shouldnt detract from the error 
made by Funding Circle of using some of the loan funds without agreement from R. 
He believes this was deliberate and that other businesses will have experienced the 
same, which should be addressed.
He was unhappy that the BBL showed on Rs customer account with Funding Circle 
as settled rather than refused and returned.
The incorrect application for the second BBL, shouldnt prevent R being 
compensated for the time spent dealing with the complaint. He is also unhappy that 
compensation cannot be paid to him as a director for distress and inconvenience, 
therefore the compensation for R should be significantly higher. 
Its not reasonable that this service doesnt award compensation based on an hourly rate as dealing with the complaint meant Mr P was unable to fulfil his director duties 
which caused R financial loss. So, he expects all his invoices to be paid.
The issues he raised regarding the redemption statement and social media access 
by Funding Circle staff should be dealt with under the other complaint reference. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my original decision.
Firstly, Mr P has stated that there was an inaccuracy in my decision and that when I referred 
to the redemption statement, I incorrectly referred to this being for the BBL, rather than the 
other loan. I apologise for this typing error - however this doesnt have a bearing on my 
decision, nor does it change the context of the point, therefore my findings remain the same. 
Mr P also didnt agree with my findings when I said that he had been given the correct 
reason for Rs CBIL decline decision shortly after. I would like to clarify here, that although R 
applied in May 2020 for the CBIL, based on the evidence available, it appears this wasnt 
raised as a concern until 18 August 2020, when Mr P raised one of the complaints. He then 
received a response from Funding Circles compliance and quality assurance officer on 25 
August 2020. Im sorry Mr P is unhappy with the term I have used here, but it doesnt have 
any bearing on my findings. I say this because I think the lender fairly declined Rs CBIL 
application and having the reason for the decline decision confirmed sooner wouldnt have 
changed the decision outcome in any way, as this was based purely upon credit scoring. 
Mr P is also unhappy that I had addressed some points in this complaint rather than the 
other associated complaint. Both the complaints are closely linked, so I have chosen to 
address the customer service issues as a whole in this complaint as the issues for both 
complaints stem from Rs BBL application. There are times that it has been necessary to 
address some of the points which span both complaints, because the events relating to the 
BBL had an impact on Rs other loan  which are addressed within Rs other complaint. Mr P 
has also addressed several of the same points in both the complaints, therefore I intend to 
address similar points in this complaint to avoid duplication.
Mr P has repeated why he feels Funding Circle has acted unfairly by not providing R with a 
CBIL, and using the BBL funds to clear Rs other loan arrears  which led to repeated 
contact with the lender and time spent away from his role as Rs director - so he believes R 
should receive more compensation. However, as I said in my provisional decision, R didnt 
meet Funding Circles checks for the CBIL, so it was reasonable for the lender to decline the 
application. I acknowledge there was an impact on R because Funding Circle used funds 
from the BBL drawdown to clear Rs original loan arrears. However, R was never eligible for 
the second BBL, so its not fair for me to consider the impact that arose from an application 
that shouldnt have been submitted in the first place. 
Mr P also doesnt believe that Funding Circle should be allowed to rely on the self-
declaration that he completed, and that the lender should have checked the BBL register 
before agreeing to the second BBL. However, the BBL Scheme was designed to enable 
businesses to access finance more quickly using the self-certification criteria. This wasnt 
criteria created and applied by Funding Circle, but all of the lenders offering the Scheme, 
which was implemented by the British Business Bank. If Mr P is unhappy with the Scheme design, and the information that was available to him 
when considering whether or not R was eligible for a BBL, then this is something that he 
would need to take up with the British Business Bank directly. It also worth highlighting that 
the BBL register which Mr P has referred to, wasnt available to lenders at the time of Rs 
application, which further supports the expectation that the information provided by a 
borrower needed to be accurate.
Mr P says that R should receive more compensation for the service it has received from 
Funding Circle. He also says that all the invoices that he has sent to Funding Circle for his 
time should be paid and that he is unhappy with how our service makes awards for distress 
and inconvenience to businesses. But were governed by rules set by the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They're called the DISP rules and can be found in 
the FCA's handbook. They set out our approach to complaints, including that we can only 
look at complaints on behalf of an eligible complainant, which in this case is R, not Mr P. 
It therefore follows that I can only award compensation to R, and as a limited company 
cannot experience distress, I can only consider any inconvenience it has been caused. As I 
have explained, I wont be considering any inconvenience or costs incurred that arise from R 
applying for and obtaining the BBL that it wasnt entitled to. And for the times that R has 
experienced some inconvenience, Im not persuaded that it has been to such a level that it 
has impacted Mr Ps ability to run R completely. So I will not be asking Funding Circle to pay 
the invoices that Mr P has requested to settle the complaint.
Mr P is unhappy that I havent commented further on Funding Circle staff reviewing his 
social media accounts. However, I am satisfied with the lenders explanation and apology for 
what happened, and I also have to consider that this is publicly available information and 
therefore Im not persuaded there has been a detrimental impact to R here. 
So whilst I have considered Mr Ps comments, my decision remains the same, in that 
Funding Circle should pay R £150 compensation.
My final decision
Funding Circle Ltd has already made an offer to pay R a total of £150 compensation for the
inconvenience caused to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the
circumstances. 
So my final decision is that Funding Circle Ltd should pay R £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman