DRN-2202206
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs M are unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline cover for all 
costs under a claim they made on their policy.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs M had a travel insurance policy with AXA. 
Mrs M was over 30 weeks pregnant when she went abroad to visit her injured mother. She 
was provided with a fit to fly certificate from her doctor before she travelled. 
Unfortunately, Mrs M suffered vaginal bleeding when she was away. She attended the public 
hospital and was told she would have to wait to be seen for this condition. So she went to a 
private facility and was diagnosed with placental abruption and treated. 
AXA informed Mr R and Mrs M that she would need to give birth in a public facility as it 
wouldnt cover these medical costs in a private facility. Mrs M explained she had lost 
confidence in the public healthcare system because of her previous experience where shed 
been told hed need to wait to be seen. And after what had happened, she didnt want to 
pose any risk to herself or her child so wanted to have her baby in the private facility. 
Mr R flew out and their baby arrived by caesarean in the private facility.  AXA said it would 
cover the cost of bringing their newborn child back to the UK, but not the medical or 
additional costs theyd incurred. 
Mr R said it was unfair for AXA not to cover the medical costs of the birth of his daughter or 
any expenses incurred by him or his wife following this unexpected event. So he complained 
to our service. 
AXA reviewed the claim again and said it should have refunded the £115.64 cost of the 
treatment Mrs M received following the initial bleeding, as this would be classed as 
emergency treatment. In addition to £75.09 for the babys passport. It also offered £100 
compensation for not refunding this sooner and a £50 gesture of goodwill payment. AXA 
maintained the birthing costs were not covered under the policy.
Our investigator agreed with AXA. She said that AXA had handled the claim fairly and paid 
what they need to. Mr R and Mrs M disagreed and said it was unfair AXAs doctor hadnt 
seen Mrs M when she was abroad. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I dont think its unfair that AXA said it considered the birth to be normal rather than an 
unforeseen event. Mrs M had planned to have a caesarean in the UK. And although that 
procedure unexpectedly had to take place abroad, it could have been carried out in a public 
facility. And its important to recognise that AXA was clear on several occasions that it would 
not cover the cost of the birth in a private facility. 
AXA has maintained there was no medical reason why the birth couldnt take place in a 
public facility. And based on the medical evidence I dont think this was unreasonable. I 
appreciate Mrs Ms concerns about having to wait for treatment when her placenta abrupted. 
But I havent seen anything to suggest that she wouldnt have received treatment for the 
birth of her child.
Mr R said it was unfair AXAs doctor hadnt seen Mrs M when she was abroad. Ive given 
this careful consideration, but I dont think AXA has acted unreasonably. The case notes 
show AXA was trying to establish whether Mrs M was medically fit to fly home to give birth. 
AXA explored this avenue thoroughly, but Mrs M was in the final stages of her pregnancy 
and at 36 weeks she wouldnt have been accepted by an airline onto a flight. So it was 
decided an independent doctors assessment to establish if she was FTF was no longer 
deemed necessary. I dont think this decision was unreasonable.
Ive also taken account of the fact Mrs M had been discharged following the placenta 
abruption and the medical report states she was in a good condition. As I havent seen 
anything to suggest her recovery was hindered, Im also not persuaded there was a medical 
need for AXA to send out a doctor to asses Mrs M following her discharge. 
Having carefully considered all arguments Im not upholding this complaint. I dont think AXA 
has acted unfairly by declining to cover the birthing costs.  AXA made it clear to Mr R and 
Mrs M that she should attend a public facility to give birth. And so, AXA doesnt have to take 
any further action here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman