DRN-3673453
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her an income 
protection insurance plan (the policy). 
What happened
Halifax sold Ms W the policy in 2001.She says that the policy was mis-sold to her as she 
thought she had to take it out. Ms W also says she had no need for the policy given her 
personal circumstances at the time. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ms W has requested an Ombudsmans 
decision, so her complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint for the reasons set out below.
Its of course possible that Halifaxs advisor told Ms W that she had to have the 
policy. But Im not persuaded on the balance of probabilities that this is what most 
likely happened. I can see the paperwork from the time reflects that her priorities 
were retirement planning and regular savings. However, theres nothing to indicate 
that the policy was compulsory in any way. 
The policy was recommended to Ms W so Halifax had an obligation to ensure that it 
was suitable for her needs as well as providing her with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the main terms of the policy. 
Ms W says at the time of taking out the policy, she didnt have a mortgage or any 
dependents. And if she was unable to work, she says her parents wouldve financially 
supported her. She says she wouldve also been in receipt of welfare benefits after 
her contractual sick pay of three months expired. However, I dont think the 
recommendation was unsuitable. 
The policy wouldve paid out £100 per week in the event of a successful claim after 
shed been unable to work for 13 weeks. That wouldve coincided with around the 
time her contractual sick pay expired. Its reflected in the fact-finding document - 
completed around the time  that she would need around £400 per month if she was 
unable to work due to illness or injury. And thats in line with her stated committed 
outgoings. So, a successful claim wouldve helped cover those. Just because Ms W 
didnt have a mortgage or dependents doesnt mean the policy wouldnt have been of 
benefit to her if she was unable to work. And although her parents couldve assisted, 
their financial circumstances couldve also changed at the time she mightve needed 
to make a claim.
From the information Ive seen theres nothing else which persuades me that the 
policy was unsuitable for her. For example, the monthly cost of the policy compared 
with the potential monthly benefit and how long the policy couldve paid this for. 
I dont know whether Ms W was given information about the main terms of the policy 
during her conversation with Halifaxs advisor. But the financial report sets out some 
of the main terms. And even if she wasnt given all the key information, looking at the 
key features document, I dont think theres anything there which wouldve put her off 
taking it out.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman