DRN-3856557
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave him poor customer service and then failed to 
deal with the resulting complaint properly.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr G needed to speak to a member of Lloyds branch staff to confirm that 
a bill had been paid through his current account. He was unhappy with how we was 
spoken to, and complained.
Lloyds wrote to Mr G on 1 February 2022, acknowledging his concerns, and paid Mr G £40 
compensation for that service failure. It would appear that Mr G never received Lloyds 
letter, and had to contact it again in order to get an answer to his complaint. It sent a 
further copy of its letter and confirmed that the money had been paid into Mr Gs account. 
It would seem at some point it also incorrectly closed Mr Gs complaint, despite him saying 
he wasnt happy with the outcome.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service, and the adjudicator looked at everything and 
thought that the £40 Lloyds had paid was enough. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr G doesnt accept that and has asked an Ombudsman to look at his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have found no evidence of a significant mistake by Lloyds, beyond the 
customer service failings already identified, so am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mr G says that a member of Lloyds branch staff was rude and spoke down to him on the 
phone. It would seem Lloyds was unable to make contact with the branch in question in 
order to get its side of the story, so it accepted Mr Gs account of the conversation without 
disagreement, apologised, and paid him £40 to acknowledge its mistake.
Much of Mr Gs unhappiness is founded upon the fact that he had to chase Lloyds in early 
2022 to get a response to his complaint. I can understand that must have been frustrating, 
but I can see that in fact Lloyds wrote to him on 1 February 2022, to his correct address, 
and I have no idea why that wasnt received by Mr G.
So I cant see that Lloyds has done anything wrong in how it initially handled this complaint 
 it responded to Mr G promptly and offered compensation to him. The fact that he didnt 
receive that response, and had to spend time pursuing a response, doesnt appear to be 
Lloyds fault. And I cant hold it responsible for that.
Lloyds also accepts that it closed Mr Gs complaint incorrectly. But I cant identify that 
mistake has had any impact on Mr G at all. Lloyds gave him referral rights to this service, 
and Mr G duly used those rights when he was unhappy with its response. The fact that it 
had closed the complaint on its system didnt change anything, or lead to any delays.
Mr G is also unhappy that Lloyds automatically credited the £40 compensation to his 
account, despite him not being happy with its response. Again, I cant see how this has had 
any impact on Mr G. He decided to come to this service, so there was no question that he 
wasnt happy with the amount hed received, and no suggestion that he had accepted 
Lloyds offer in full and final settlement. Had I upheld his complaint, I would simply have 
instructed Lloyds to pay him an additional amount. So the crediting of the £40 in 2022 made 
no difference to Mr Gs complaint.
I turn now to Mr Gs original concern, about rudeness on the telephone on the part of Lloyds 
branch staff member. I have been given very little detail about this, beyond what Ive already 
set out above. I consider £40 to be ample compensation for being talked down to, or spoken 
rudely to. Ive seen no evidence of any protracted or extreme distress as a result, so I dont 
think any more compensation is necessary, and therefore dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman