DRN-2952226
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Ltd havent properly repaired his home, following a 
water leak.  
What happened
Mr S has a buildings insurance policy with Aviva. Mr S has experienced a number of 
problems relating to an escape of water claim at his home, that he first raised with Aviva in 
2017. He has brought previous complaints to our service relating to this, resulting in two 
previous ombudsman final decisions. 
Aviva accepted there had been an insured event here, which had taken some time to 
properly diagnose. Avivas contractors were engaged to undertake the necessary repairs 
and began work on the property in the early months of 2020. However, Mr Ss behaviour 
towards those contractors  according to Aviva  was such they were unwilling to carry out 
any further work. Aviva then said they would only settle the claim on a cash basis. 
Aviva engaged a surveyor to assess the property and cost the required works. A schedule of 
works (SOW) was provided to Mr S in June 2020, costed at £28,218 (+VAT). Mr S wasnt 
happy with this, and engaged a solicitor to review the offer, and advise accordingly. Mr S 
obtained independent quotes for the works he felt were still required, and provided these to 
Aviva, and us, for comment - costed at £39,114 (+VAT) and £46,071 (+VAT) respectively. 
He also brought this complaint to us, essentially saying:
- The depth of the new concrete flooring was too high and wouldnt allow a like-for-like 
replacement of his previous parquet flooring
- The bathroom repairs scope wouldnt allow him to install a wet-room, which is what 
was in place before the escape of water 
- And generally, some of the repairs undertaken were of poor quality. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint, acknowledging that in his first complaint to our 
service, an ombudsman issued a decision essentially saying that Mr Ss parquet flooring 
needed to be replaced in all areas, with a similar product. And the second complaint resulted 
in a decision that essentially said Aviva werent liable to replace the wet-room, as the faults 
identified with it were as a result of its faulty initial installation. 
But our investigator did say, given contradictory evidence regarding the thickness of Mr Ss 
original parquet flooring, that Aviva needed to pay a settlement to Mr S to allow 22mm 
parquet to be installed (Avivas SOW was based on 16mm). And he said that Aviva should 
pay Mr Ss alternative accommodation costs until the work has been completed. He also 
suggested Aviva should pay Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. 
But he refused Mr Ss request for Aviva to cover the costs of his ongoing legal advice. 
Aviva disagreed with these conclusions. They thought our investigator hadnt properly 
considered the different evidence provided by Aviva when concluding what the previous floor 
level was. Aviva also questioned some of the works included in Mr Ss quotes (after removal 
of wet-room-related costs), saying these were overstated and didnt provide a like-for-like 
reinstatement  particularly relating to kitchen replacement costs, the inclusion of new 
underfloor heating and bathroom sanitaryware, all which Aviva thinks would amount to 
betterment. Finally, Aviva said its unfair to ask them to provide a settlement based on rates 
Mr S provided, as they were willing to undertake the work themselves before  they say  
their contractors felt unable to continue working on the site following exchanges with Mr S. 
Responding to Avivas comments, Mr S said Aviva should have taken reference point 
measurements prior to the floor and concrete slab being removed, and because this wasnt 
done, the new concrete floor is too high. He also points to photos showing the concrete floor 
was uneven after Avivas contractor finished laying the concrete. Mr S accepted the outcome 
of an earlier ombudsman decision regarding the wet-room installation, but said Aviva 
excavated the concrete flooring in that room, and so they must be responsible for replacing it 
correctly. Mr S also said the problems with his flat have been ongoing for four years, with 
multiple incorrect leak diagnoses before the correct leak source was identified. 
As both parties were unable to agree a way forward, the case was passed to me to consider, 
in order for a decision to be issued.  
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 3 June 2021, in which I said as follows:
I do agree Aviva are entitled to cash settle the claim  this is a choice that is invariably 
included within any home insurance policy and is the case here. I dont in any way question 
the comments made by Avivas contractor regarding the concerns they felt for their safety, 
particularly given the need for social distancing at the time. But by the same token, Im 
aware Mr S denies any wrongdoing. I have no way of proving what was said, or how. 
Regardless, the effect was that work which Aviva had agreed to undertake stopped, 
meaning Mr S was faced with having to source his own contractors. 
But from what I can see based on the evidence Aviva has provided, I dont think Aviva did 
enough to engage with Mr S immediately after the relevant contractors left the site  to 
explain what he did, or may have done, would lead to no further work being able to be 
undertaken. In other words, to remind Mr S that he should refrain from attending his home 
unless by strict prior agreement, and of the need to maintain social distancing  as well as 
ensuring he treated the contractors with respect - at any such meeting. And that any breach 
of these requirements would lead to work on the repairs ceasing immediately. 
Ive looked at Avivas case notes and seen there were various internal exchanges in which 
the issue of Mr Ss behaviour towards the contractors was discussed. In particular, I note the 
following comment from Avivas Environment Health and Safety Consultant in May 2020: 
If a customer has no intention of abiding by Aviva policy and government guidance 
we should force a cash settlement. Therefore I would suggest that unless the 
relationship with Mr S can be improved and assurances sought that he will abide by 
social distancing going forward then we are fully justified in forcing a cash settlement
I cant see that Mr S was provided with a warning of this type. I think, in the context of the 
early days of the COVID pandemic that existed at that time, that would have been the fair, 
pragmatic and sensible thing to have happened  to ensure as much as possible that the 
repair programme didnt become derailed.But at this stage the repair programme had become derailed and so were now looking at 
whether the cash settlement amount offered by Aviva is fair, and I dont think it is. I 
appreciate Aviva says the costs represent reasonable market rates, but by the same token 
Mr Ss cash settlement needs to be enough for him to engage his own contractors to allow 
the works to be completed, and to ensure he isnt out of pocket. So I think it was fair to allow 
Mr S to provide detailed quotes for consideration.  
But, neither of the quotes provided by Mr S mirrors the works laid out in the SOW. One of 
the quotes (£39,114) contains no cost breakdown at all. However, there is enough detail in 
the second quote to allow me to undertake a comparison of rates, and allow me to arrive at 
what I think is a fair and reasonable settlement sum for Aviva to pay to Mr S. 
But before I do this, I want to begin by looking at two key areas of disagreement between the 
parties  the wet-room issue and the concrete/parquet flooring issue.
The bathroom/wet-room issue
I wont repeat the chronology of events here. In his view our investigator explained that he 
couldnt revisit something that had been addressed in a previous ombudsman final decision 
 and hes correct about that. So, this current complaint cant be used as a means to 
reassess what had been decided before. 
Mr S has confirmed he accepts the earlier decision regarding the poorly-installed wet-room 
pipework. However, he mentions that as part of this claim, Avivas contractor removed the 
drainage and pipework underneath the wet-room  and suggests they should now be 
required to replace the drainage and pipework, and by association replace and install it 
correctly. Aviva, on the other hand, have said that no work to the bathroom pipework has 
been undertaken. The leak was found to be caused by a damaged waste pipe from the WC, 
and it was this that was repaired by Aviva. 
Given the above, I wont be asking Aviva to do anything further  beyond covering the cost 
of the remaining repairs and redecoration of Mr Ss bathroom as per the SOW report. Mr Ss 
policy essentially requires Aviva to return his property to the condition it was in prior to the 
claim event. And regarding the bathroom, Im satisfied that is what theyve done. There is no 
policy requirement for Aviva to pay to repair existing poor workmanship.
The flooring issue
There is significant difference of opinion regarding the thickness of the original flooring that 
had to be taken up. Mr S remains adamant the parquet flooring was 22mm throughout, and 
that concrete rectification works have raised the floor level to such an extent that 
replacement 22mm flooring will no longer fit. He also believes the quality of the concrete 
rectification is sub-standard, with floors not being level or cracked throughout the property. 
However, Aviva say the previous thickness of the parquet flooring was between 15mm and 
18mm. And regarding the newly laid concrete, they say the imperfections would have been 
ironed out when the floor is prepared (scabbled) for when the replacement parquet is laid. 
Both parties have provided photos of the previous parquet supporting what they believe the 
correct thickness was, all of which I accept as genuine. But what these appear to show is the 
original flooring was of differing thickness throughout the property. Aviva have also provided 
photos which appear to show the floor was slightly uneven in places. All of which creates a 
challenge when deciding what I think the correct replacement parquet thickness should be, 
especially as there is a previous ombudsman decision which says the parquet must be 
replaced essentially like-for-like. Aviva previously provided a selection of suggested replacements, with Mr Ss preferred type 
of flooring coming in 15, 18 and 22mm thickness. Aviva offered to scabble back the newly 
laid concrete to enable 18mm parquet to be laid evenly throughout the relevant rooms. But 
before agreement could be reached, Avivas contractors stopped working on the site.
Having considered the photos, I dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to pay for the extra 
works necessary to enable 22mm parquet to be laid. It appears to me more likely than not 
the flooring wasnt 22mm thickness consistently throughout the property. So, I think Avivas 
initial offer to prepare the concrete to accommodate 18mm parquet was a sensible, fair and 
reasonable compromise here, not least because it would provide Mr S with level flooring 
throughout his property. And so its this Im suggesting Aviva will now need to pay for.
The costs of repairing the damage to Mr Ss home
Its clear, from comparing Avivas SOW and Mr Ss second quote there is little material 
difference in cost between many of the repair items listed. On occasions, Avivas SOW is 
more expensive (painting costs, for instance) and on others Mr Ss is a little more expensive 
(tiling, for instance). 
However, its clear Mr Ss quote contains certain repairs that arent included in Avivas SOW. 
These dont appear to be connected to the insured event, and as such appear to be putting 
Mr S, or his home, in a better position than it was before the insured event. But as Ive said 
above, I think Mr S is entitled to receive a settlement based on the reasonable costs set out 
in his own contractor quote. So I think a fair outcome here would be for me to reduce the 
second contractor quote by the amounts I think dont relate to the insured event, as follows:    
-Regarding the flooring issue, Avivas SOW costs this work at £5,124 (based on 
accommodating a 16mm parquet), whereas Mr Ss contractor costs the work at £9,354 
(based on accommodating 22mm parquet). As Ive already said I think the fair outcome 
is to accommodate 18mm parquet, so I think the amount Aviva should pay should sit 
broadly in the middle of these two quotes. Accordingly, I think a fair compromise is to 
reduce Mr Ss contractor quote by £2,250. 
-The underfloor heating has been tested and found to be working. It wasnt damaged by 
the insured event, or it seems by the remedial works so far undertaken by Aviva. That 
being the case, all costs appearing to be associated with underfloor heating  removal, 
disposal and replacement  should be removed. I calculate this amount to be £3,130.
-Kitchen expenses  Mr Ss contractor has quoted an unspecified amount for new white 
goods within his total kitchen units/installation cost of £9,250 (against Avivas cost  
excluding white goods but including a new hob  of £6,000). Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Mr Ss existing white goods were damaged by the insured event, or the remedial works, 
and so I think Mr Ss contractor quote should be reduced by £1,750.
-New boiler  Mr Ss contractor quoted £3,000 to supply/fit a new boiler. Aviva quoted 
£1,500 to cover repairs to the plumbing and central heating systems, and to reinstate the 
existing boiler. In the absence of any evidence  by which I mean a full report, with 
photographic evidence as necessary from a registered gas safe/boiler engineer  to 
confirm the boiler is beyond repair, I think Avivas obligation should be limited to £1,500 
for the items theyve set out, so Mr Ss quote should be reduced by £1,500. 
-Works in the bathroom  Mr Ss contractor has quoted for new sanitaryware, together 
with floor excavation works and architrave removal/supply and fit. For the same reasons 
as above, I think the costs associated with these items - £1,627  should be removed.-Works in the two bedrooms  Mr Ss contractor includes the cost of floor excavation, 
laying of new screed, new skirting and architraves, and painting of same. It also includes 
the cost of new carpets and underlay. For the same reasons as above, I think the costs 
associated with these items - £6,147  should be removed.
-Hallway  Mr Ss contractor has quoted for replacement of new doors and casings, at a 
cost of £2,160. Aviva quoted for the replacement of only one door (the bathroom) and 
the cleaning and re-varnishing of the others, at a cost of £620. Accordingly, for the same 
reasons as above, I think total door/varnishing cost should be reduced by £1,540.
-However, Mr Ss contractor quote doesnt appear to include certain items that Aviva have 
quoted for  for instance site set up, insurance, tools, surface protection, drying 
certificate, site security, replace glazing panel on rear uPVC door, repairs to electric 
system and TV installation, full pressure test, internal clean and window clean. Together, 
these amount to £4,775. In the interests of fairness, I think these should be added to the 
amount quoted by Mr Ss contractor.
-Taken together, this alters the total quoted by Mr Ss contractor to £32,902 + VAT 
(£46,071, less £2,250, £3,130, £1,750, £1,500, £1,627, £6,147, £1,540, plus £4,775).
Given the quote was provided 12 months ago, I think its fair to add approximately 2.5% to 
the quote, to allow for price increases, together with a 10% contingency, and so I suggest 
Aviva need to pay Mr S £37,000 (+VAT) to pay for the outstanding repairs to his home.
Alternative Accommodation
Its not in dispute Aviva were obliged to offer Mr S alternative accommodation (AA) whilst his 
property was being renovated, and it was provided between November 2019 and 24 July 
2020. And after their contractors left the property, Aviva offered to pay for a limited amount 
of further AA. This was calculated on the nightly advance rate for a local budget hotel  at 
£39.50 per night, together with a £10 per day subsistence allowance. This was to be for 56 
days, being the time Aviva said it would take to undertake the repairs outlined in the SOW 
with a couple of weeks for snagging and moving back in. Because Mr S didnt agree with the 
SOW report, no AA has been paid.   
Aviva said they shouldnt have to pay for any AA beyond the 56 days offered because the 
cause of the subsequent delays was effectively Mr Ss behaviour towards their contractor  it 
was this that caused the contractors to leave. However, as Ive said above, I think Aviva 
didnt sufficiently engage with Mr S after the contractor dispute and didnt do enough to try 
and ensure the repair programme didnt become derailed. And given this, and that Mr Ss 
home remains uninhabitable until the necessary repairs have been carried out, I think Aviva 
remain liable to pay Mr S his AA costs until the works have been completed. 
The next two questions are therefore how much, and for how long. Mr S says he has been 
paying to rent an executive apartment at a cost of £500 per week, with an additional £80 per 
week cleaning charge  equating to just over £2,500 per month on average. This is despite 
Aviva having advised, in July 2020, theyd be prepared to pay £39.50 per night or 
approximately £1,200 per month. Aviva didnt agree to the higher AA costs that Mr S chose 
to incur, and nor from what I can see were they asked. 
Ive undertaken cursory internet searches and can see good quality properties, of a similar 
size to Mr Ss, are available in his postcode to rent at a monthly cost roughly equivalent to 
the £1,200 offered by Aviva. So Im satisfied that £39.50 per day/£1,200 per month rate was 
sufficient to provide Mr S with quality accommodation  which is what Mr Ss policy provides 
for, and so this is all that Aviva needed to provide. And so I wont be asking Aviva to cover the cost of Mr Ss £580 per week accommodation costs, and propose instead to continue to 
use the £39.50 per day rate, plus £10 subsistence, in my final award calculations. 
Regarding the length of this award, Im minded to ask Aviva to cover the cost of Mr Ss AA 
from 25 July 2020 until ten weeks after they pay their settlement amount to him. I think ten 
weeks is a sensible period, allowing two weeks for the work to be organised, six weeks for 
the work to completed, and two weeks for snagging and sign off. Ill also be expecting Aviva 
to add 8% simple interest to this amount, in line with our usual calculations.  
Storage
On the basis of what Ive said above regarding AA, I think its reasonable that Aviva cover 
the cost of Mr Ss storage for an equivalent period. I can see £75 per week has been 
mentioned in correspondence and, subject to evidence being provided that this remains the 
current cost, I think that is a fair amount. 
Legal Fees
Mr S says he had to seek legal assistance due to Avivas failure to provide sufficient 
indemnity in respect of his losses and costs. I do appreciate the concerns Mr S was 
experiencing as his claim progressed, and there was clearly nothing to stop him from 
seeking his own counsel, notwithstanding hed already brought his complaint to our service.  
However, that doesnt mean Aviva should reimburse any fees incurred in this way  it was 
Mr Ss choice to engage solicitors, and his policy doesnt provide for the repayment of his 
legal fees incurred because he remained in dispute with Aviva. So I wont be asking Aviva to 
repay any of the legal fees Mr S has incurred. 
Distress and Inconvenience
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I think Aviva could have done more to help try and 
prevent the works coming to a halt. And Im satisfied that Mr S has experienced avoidable 
distress and inconvenience caused as a result  hell have been out of his home for at least 
one year longer than he needed to be. Accordingly, I think Aviva should also pay Mr S £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva responded to my provisional decision and confirmed they accept my findings. 
Mr S has also responded, accepting my findings, but also asking that I clarify certain matters 
relating to the bathroom and kitchen - he asks why I havent included certain items from the 
bathroom and kitchen in my calculations, particularly the bathroom door and handle, and in 
the kitchen the built-in washing machine, fridge and freezer. 
Firstly, the cost of a new bathroom door and handle has been included - in the Hallway sub-
section above, so I have nothing further to add regarding this. 
Regarding the other goods, further enquiries were made with Aviva, who confirmed that 
many items were still being stored by their agents. Unfortunately, there isnt a full list of every 
item that was taken, but photographs taken from when the items were removed from Mr Ss 
home have been provided. Whilst confirming that the washing machine and freezer remain 
in storage, there is no record of the built-in fridge having been taken away and stored. There 
is also no photo record of any bathroom items being taken away, but as the agents 
paperwork states they were engaged to remove items from the living, bedroom and kitchen 
spaces only, that maybe isnt a surprise. In the absence of a full list  and whilst I have no reason to doubt what Mr S has told us - I 
have no way of knowing whether the fridge, or indeed any bathroom items, were taken 
away. And because of this, I cant fairly conclude that Aviva have mislaid these items and 
should pay Mr S for their replacement. That said, in order to reach a practical outcome here I 
suggested, and Aviva have agreed, to increase the amount Ive asked them to pay Mr S by a 
further £400, to cover the cost of any extra replacements that may be necessary. I think this 
is a fair and reasonable outcome in these circumstances.  
Mr S has also asked me to consider the electricity usage in his home since November 2019, 
the date he was provided with temporary hotel accommodation, and particularly the charges 
incurred by Avivas contractors in the period they were working on his home. Hes provided 
me with copies of his electricity bills since this date, which (up to 28 June 2021) total 
£255.44. In line with our standard approach to such charges, Id expect Aviva to cover this 
cost, which Aviva have agreed to do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons set out in detail in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Both 
parties have agreed to my recommendations, and Aviva have agreed to pay further sums to 
cover missing items and electricity costs, which I think is fair and reasonable.    
Assuming Mr S continues to accept this decision, Id expect Aviva to pay the total sum 
required to him no later than ten days after notification of his acceptance.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint, and require Aviva Insurance Ltd to do the following:
- Pay Mr S a final sum of £37,000 (+VAT) to pay for the remaining repairs to his home.
- Pay Mr S an alternative accommodation allowance, based on a rate of £39.50 per night, 
together with an extra £10 per night subsistence, from 25 July 2020 until ten weeks after 
the full settlement is paid.
- Aviva will also need to calculate and pay 8% simple interest on the alternative 
accommodation award 
- Continue to pay Mr Ss storage fees of £75 per week until ten weeks after the full 
settlement is paid.
- Pay Mr S £400 to cover the cost of any mislaid items
- Pay Mr S £256 to cover electricity charges incurred 
- Pay Mr S compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021. 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman