DRN-3568819
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly 
treated them in relation to their buildings insurance policy and related subsidence claim.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs H or RSA includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
Investigator previously, so Ill summarise events.
In September 2018 Mr and Mrs H made a subsidence claim on their buildings 
insurance policy.
RSA carried out a period of monitoring. And following this established the cause of 
the subsidence was a council owned tree. It contacted the council to have the tree 
removed, but the council refused. Following an extended back and forth and 
discussion of legal action, the council fitted a root barrier. 
Mr and Mrs H complained about delays. RSA said the council had failed to respond 
on many occasions which was outside of its control, but agreed its agents had only 
progressed matters at times because of the chasers from Mr and Mrs H. And it paid 
£150 compensation for this.
Around this time in August 2021, Mr and Mrs H contacted RSA related to their 
premium costs for the following year in January 2022. RSA said it was unable to 
provide this. In October 2021 they made this request again and were told this may be 
possible if they called RSA and requested a quote with an open claim. Mr and Mrs H 
followed this advice and were told RSA still couldnt provide a quote. RSA recognised 
it had given misleading information and awarded a further £130 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs H also raised a complaint about the endorsements on the policy. Since 
the complaint has been with this Service, RSA awarded £200 compensation in 
relation to this matter and reduced the obligations on the endorsement which Mr and 
Mrs H have accepted.
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She said the 
initial monitoring was required, and that some of the delay was the fault of the council 
and not RSA. And she agreed RSA had misled Mr and Mrs H about the availability of 
a quote, but said it was reasonable for it to not provide one. She was satisfied the 
compensation awarded overall was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said RSAs agents had monitored the property for 
three years and inadequately engaged with the council. They said RSA wouldve 
unnecessarily taken legal action without Mr and Mrs Hs intervention which led to the 
tree barrier being installed. And that RSA failed to seek reports or assurances the 
council carried out necessary works. Mr and Mrs H also said their renewal request to 
RSA included all relevant information it needed to provide a quote. 
Mr and Mrs H also said they believe their property wasnt suffering subsidence and 
requested this be changed in RSAs classification of the matter. Our Investigator 
explained this had yet to be addressed by RSA so didnt fall within this complaint.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Delays and claims handling
As our Investigator has outlined, this complaint concerns the progress of the claim up 
until 13 August 2021. Any concerns with claim related matters that followed this date 
will need to be addressed with RSA in the first instance.
Subsidence claims by their nature are often stressful and frustrating for property 
owners to deal with. And claims relating to them are typically time consuming given 
the levels of investigation or monitoring that is often required.
I cant reasonably hold an insurer responsible for this, unless the insurer has added 
to this inevitable stress and frustration as a result of any failings or delays in the way 
the claim was handled.
Having looked through the history of the claim I can also see the were some issues 
with RSAs handling in places. At times it seems RSAs agents took action only after 
being chased by Mr and Mrs H. On many occasions however it strikes me that RSA 
reached out to Mr and Mrs H to explain next steps of the claim, the purposes of its 
monitoring, and the steps it was taking to rule out other potential causes. 
I also have no concerns about the steps RSA took with the council  while I 
understand Mr and Mrs H feel this wasnt the appropriate way to handle the claim, 
this decision on how to proceed ultimately sits with RSA to decide and Im not 
persuaded it was an unreasonable position for it to take.
So, largely Im satisfied RSA has progressed the claim in a timely manner for a claim 
of this nature. And Im satisfied the compensation it has offered is reflective of any 
avoidable delays or lack of updates within the scope of the claim I can consider.
I understand Mr and Mrs H feel that RSA has failed to obtain details of the councils 
repairs or works. However, by the nature of RSAs monitoring across this period it 
would be able to establish whether or not the councils actions had resolved the 
ongoing subsidence to allow RSA to determine next steps. So, I dont consider this a 
failing on its part. 
And while Mr and Mrs H have raised concerns about the period of monitoring 
completed, this is a combination of monitoring to establish a problem, then to see if 
the steps taken (removal of vegetation) have had the desired effect. This is common 
in claims of this nature, and while I understand it may feel like the matter hasnt 
progressed as the monitoring is ongoing, I dont consider this to be the case.
Renewal
RSA has explained its systems provide renewal information based on rating factors 
including claims that have been made. And that when a claim is open, it will not affect 
a no claims discount (NCD). So, in this scenario of Mr and Mrs Hs request, it was 
not able to calculate a quote  and said this would be inappropriate as it couldve 
changed significantly between the date of request and the date of the renewal.Im satisfied this is a reasonable explanation. I wouldnt expect RSA to provide 
potentially inaccurate information to customers for the reasons it has given. And it 
follows Im persuaded RSAs decision to not provide a quote here was fair.
RSA has agreed one of its staff members had misled Mr and Mrs H in a later 
communication in October 2021 by suggesting a quote may be obtainable. And it 
said it shouldve clarified this point sooner than it did. Im in agreement that it made a 
mistake, so I dont need to make a finding on this point.
But I need to decide if the compensation RSA has awarded is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. And having considered it, I am satisfied it is sufficient, taking into 
account the information ultimately was not available and the impact is limited to 
frustration and loss of expectation.
Other points
Mr and Mrs H have said the matter regarding the endorsement on their policy is 
resolved. So, Im not going to comment on this any further within this decision.
As our Investigator has said, the complaint regarding the classification of subsidence 
will need to be considered separately and does not fall within this decision.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman