DRN-3852487
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim against 
it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar 
panels.
Background
Mr O bought solar panels for his home in September 2016. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr O into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Os complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr O, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance.
Shawbrook didnt agree. After consulting with the installer, it explained that as well as the 
sales documentation referred to by the adjudicator (the contract and the loan agreement), 
there had also been a FIT sheet which had clearly showed the payback period (I take this 
to mean the time it would take for the income and savings generated by the panels to equal 
the cash price of the panels).
As no agreement had been reached, the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr O was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
The contract and quotation, which is one document, does not show the estimated financial 
returns from the panels. Neither party has provided me with the FIT sheet, and apparently 
this is no longer available. That prevents me from seeing for myself what Mr O would have 
seen, but I have taken into account the installers description of what it would have said. 
However, I dont think that it assists Shawbrooks case, for the following reasons.
Firstly, the installer has not said (and presumably is no longer in a position to say) how long 
the payback period was, so I cant tell whether this would have shown that the panels would 
pay for themselves within the loan period, or whether they would make enough to pay for the 
loan payments as they fell due. Since there is no evidence to contradict what Mr O has told 
us, on the balance of probabilities I accept as accurate his recollection that he was told they 
would pay for themselves.
Secondly, the installer has said that the FIT sheet did not take into account the loan interest, 
so it would only have shown the payback time for the panels cash price. So if the payback 
period was less than the loan term, that could have misled Mr O into thinking that the panels 
would be self-funding even if they would not in fact pay for the total amount repayable under 
the loan within the loan term.
So on balance, I do not think that the evidence on which the installer seeks to rely is clear 
enough for me to agree that Shawbrook need not have upheld Mr Os claim under section 
75.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Os complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr O from the solar 
panels over the 15 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr O is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure the loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr O in a position where the solar 
panel system is cost-neutral over the 15 year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Os monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr O 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr O and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr O and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr O accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept  A, B, C or D.If Mr O has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% 
a year.
If Mr O has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Shawbrook, and then Shawbrook must: 
1. Refund the extra Mr O paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr O receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr O paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr O receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr O the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr O first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman