DRN-4237651
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has unfairly turned down his claim 
made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
On 12 August 2016, when on holiday overseas, Mr O took out a timeshare from a business 
Ill call Business C. Under the agreement, Mr O was entitled to a week of holiday every 
year in a sea-view apartment in the medium holiday period. The total contract price was 
£6,900 and the initial management charge was £415 per year.
Mr O paid £200 towards this using his Lloyds credit card, with the payment being made on 
26 August 2016. On 25 August a payment of £6,500 was made by bank transfer.
In June 2019, Mr O, using a professional representative (PR), made a claim to Lloyds 
under the CCA. In short, PR said that Lloyds was jointly responsible for misrepresentations 
made by Business C to Mr O that led to him taking out the timeshare. PR asked for payment 
of £6,900 plus interest.
Lloyds responded to say it wasnt going to consider the claim until it saw evidence that Mr O 
paid the full price of £6,900 that was being claimed, as the evidence provided only showed 
payments of £6,700.1  Unhappy with Lloyds position, Mr O complained that the claim hadnt 
been properly assessed.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but didnt think Lloyds needed to do 
anything further. They considered possible claims under both s.75 CCA and s.140A CCA, 
but didnt think there was enough to say Business C had misrepresented the nature of the 
timeshare to Mr O or that there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship due to the 
timeshare purchase.
Mr O didnt agree with our adjudicator, so the matter was passed to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
Having considered everything, I agreed with the outcome that our adjudicator reached, but 
for different reasons. So, I issued a provisional decision, setting why I thought that and 
invited both parties to comment.
I explained that I didnt have any evidence from Business C, and the only evidence there is 
from the time of sale is from Mr O. He provided all of the documentation he had from the 
time of sale, along with his memories. So, when considering this claim, that was the only 
evidence available. I was mindful that his memories may not be an accurate representation 
of the precise sales process as memories are imperfect. So I had had to weigh all of that up 
when deciding what I thought most likely happened. I didnt think it was unfair to Lloyds for 
me to do this  ultimately I have to decide the complaint in front of me based on the 
1 Mr O has recently provided a letter to show that the total cost was actually reduced to £6,700 if 
payment was made before the end of August 2016.
evidence available.
What claim was made?
I considered and set out what the claim was that was made to Lloyds and then, in turn, what 
complaint was referred to our service.
The letter sent by PR to Lloyds was headed RE: S.75 AND/OR S.140A Consumer Credit 
Act 1974, but went on to say:
Our clients wish to make a claim pursuant to s.75 of the [CCA], to recover the 
monies they have paid to you.
PR then set out details of alleged misrepresentation made. Lloyds didnt respond to the 
substance of that claim, and so a complaint was referred to our service that the claim was 
not properly handled. And on the form used to refer the compliant, PR wrote:
Complaint about a section 75 claim about a timeshare
I thought it was plain that the claim made was a s.75 CCA claim about alleged 
misrepresentations.
While Section 140A may be a relevant consideration, and I appreciated that our adjudicator 
went on to consider whether a court might conclude that the relationship between Mr O and 
Lloyds was unfair, I couldnt see that Mr O (through PR) had ever asked Lloyds to consider 
this point or provided evidence or arguments to support it, or that Lloyds had a chance to 
investigate it. So, in the circumstances, I thought it would be better dealt with as a separate 
complaint, should Mrs O wish to make one to Lloyds.
Mr O said he was told a number of things about the timeshare by Business C that turned out 
not to be true, and these amounted to actionable misrepresentations. S.75 CCA states that 
in certain circumstances, when a debtor has a claim against a supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, they will have a like claim against the creditor. Here, 
Mr O (the debtor) was asking Lloyds (the creditor) to answer his claims for 
misrepresentation.
PR, on Mr Os behalf, set out a number of possible misrepresentations when it first made the 
claim. In response to our adjudicators view, Mr O provided further clarification about what he 
said happened. Taking these together, I thought the alleged misrepresentations were:
That Mr O could have holidayed whenever he wanted and the timeshare could be 
exchanged to stay anywhere in the world. Mr O thought hed be able to use the 
timeshare in August or April.
The timeshare would save money in the long-term, but the maintenance fees went up 
10% after one year of ownership.
It wasnt explained that Mr O would have to pay an extra £3,900 to take holidays 
when he actually wanted them.
The accommodation provided wasnt as good as what had been shown to Mr O at 
the time of sale.
Mr O wasnt able to sell the timeshare back to Business C despite them being told 
there would be no problems doing so at the time of sale.
Mr O also said that he was made to pay a non-refundable deposit the day he signed up to 
the timeshare, but he didnt think he should have paid anything until the end of the cooling 
off period. Further, the cooling off period should have started when he returned from his holiday, but it started from the day he signed the paperwork.
The evidence
I considered the documents available alongside Mr Os memories of the sale and set out a 
summary of the evidence. I noted that Mr O explained that he was on holiday with his family 
when they were approached and asked to visit a hotel in exchange for free tickets to a tourist 
attraction. When at the hotel, they were taken to a sales presentation for a timeshare. Mr O 
said the focus of the presentation was on the fact the timeshare could be exchanged for any 
other apartment/holiday let around the world using an exchange programme. Mr O says that 
he was told he would make savings by signing up to the timeshare and that it was easy to 
cancel later if he didnt want it.
Mr O said that he explained to Business C that his family could only holiday during the 
school Easter or summer holidays and that the sales representative understood this and 
didnt say they wouldnt be able to use the timeshare during that time  in fact Mr O said he 
later found out he needed to pay a further £3,900 to stay in the summer holidays.
Mr O said that he had to pay a deposit there and then, and the sales representative wouldnt 
let him think about it and come back another time. Mr O paid the deposit and then, after the 
holiday had ended, transferred the balance. He said that it wasnt until the following year that 
he found out his timeshare couldnt be used in the summer holidays. Mr O provided an 
extract of an email from the timeshare provider on this point, that reads:
The Medium season as per calendar provided covers in Malta ( as seasons differ in 
different countries ) January to mid April and November to mid December. ( approx ) 
as dates vary slightly yearly.
Should you need to own the period that covers school holidays which is Peak High, 
the upgrade cost difference is GBP 1200 for Inland view or GBP 3900 for Seaview.
I also had sight of the contract Mr O signed as well as some other documents from the time 
of sale.
My provisional findings
Having considered everything, I said that I didnt have enough to say Business C 
misrepresented the nature of the timeshare to him in the way alleged. With regard to the first 
allegation that the timeshare could be used during school holidays and around the world, I 
hadnt seen any specific allegations of what the actual representations made were. Mr O 
said that the term medium wasnt explained to him at the time of sale, despite repeatedly 
asking for confirmation that the timeshare could be used during school holidays. He also 
noted that the paperwork is silent as to when the timeshare could be used. I thought that 
was different to saying there was a factual representation by the supplier that wasnt true  
for example, Mr O hadnt said he was told he would be able to use the timeshare in the 
summer school holidays. For the same reasons, I couldnt say that there was a 
misrepresentation made because Mr O wasnt told hed have to pay more to use the 
timeshare apartment in the summer holidays.
Mr O pointed to an email that states the timeshare could have been used up to mid-April, so 
I thought that coincides with his understanding that the timeshare could have been used in 
the Easter school holidays. I also noted that there was an exchange programme, so it was 
possible Mr O could have found other holidays at other times of the year, albeit that there 
might not have been the availably of holidays Mr O actually wanted at any given time. So, 
without more specific details of what was discussed at the time of sale, I couldnt say Mr O was misled about when he could use the timeshare.
Mr O said that he was told he could find any other apartment/holiday let around the world 
using the exchange programme. I didnt think this statement was sufficiently clear as to 
create an actionable representation as I wasnt sure what Mr O was told about what holidays 
were available. I also found this statement inherently unlikely as the exchange programme 
could only have offered apartments that had been put up for exchange and plainly could not 
guarantee any holiday Mr O wanted anywhere in the world at any time. So, I wasnt able to 
say Mr O was misled about what holidays he was able to take.
Mr O said that he was aware at the time of sale that the annual maintenance fees could rise, 
but he was concerned with the level of the increase  around 10% in the first year. He 
thought this increase was unreasonable and would be unaffordable if continued over a ten 
year period. Mr O hadnt said there was a misrepresentation made about this and he was 
aware the costs could go up. So, I couldnt see that could lead to a successful claim under  
s.75 CCA.
Mr O said he was told he would save money by taking out the timeshare, but I didnt really 
know what statement of fact this related to. It wasnt clear to me against what measure this 
was made, for example, saving money compared to staying in a similar hotel in the same 
area or something different? So I thought that allegation, in and of itself, couldnt amount to a 
misrepresentation.
PR also raised two issues  that the timeshare accommodation wasnt as good as that 
originally shown at the time of sale and that Mr O couldnt resell the timeshare back to 
Business C. These two allegations werent repeated in Mr Os evidence and Id not been 
shown any evidence of the quality of the accommodation or that Mr O ever tried to resell the 
timeshare. It followed, I didnt think there is enough to substantiate these claims.
Finally, Mr O talked about having to pay a deposit during the 14-day cooling off period and 
he has questioned when that period should have started. I didnt think this was a 
misrepresentation, nor could I see taking a payment could have been a breach of contract. I 
noted that, although he authorised Business C to take payment at the time of sale, it wasnt 
actually taken until 14 days later. So in any event, I didnt think payment was taken during 
the cooling off period as alleged. And I wasnt sure why Mr O said the cooling off period 
should have started at a later date, but I didnt think it would have made a difference as Mr O 
was initially happy with the sale and wasnt unhappy until the following year. So I thought he 
would have paid for it in the same way even if the cooling off period had started later. So I 
couldnt see that any of these concerns amounted to something for which Lloyds could be 
responsible under s.75 CCA.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds responded to say it agreed with what Id said.
Mr O responded to say he didnt agree with my provisional decision. He explained that the 
timeshare was bought in good faith and it was a surprise to find out later there was a further 
charge to use it in the way he expected. Mr O clarified some of the sales process. He 
explained that due to his and his wifes jobs, they told the salesperson they would use the 
timeshare in August or possibly Easter. But they werent told that there was an extra charge 
of £3,900 to holiday in the summer, that wasnt documented in the sales literature and the 
salesperson wasnt transparent about this. Mr O explained that they would still have to pay 
the extra cost if they wanted to exchange their timeshare to stay somewhere else.
PR responded to say it had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having considered everything again, Ive not altered my provisional findings. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr O, so Ill explain why.
I do understand Mr Os understandable frustration about the situation, but under the s.75 
CCA claim made, Lloyds are only responsible if Business C breached its agreement or 
misrepresented things at the time of sale. Having considered everything, I dont think there 
was a misrepresentation that Mr O could use the timeshare he bought in August. 
Misrepresentation is a legal claim and silence on the part of the salesperson doesnt 
normally amount to a misrepresentation, even if morally they could or should have said 
something. And I dont think the relationship between Mr O and the salesperson meant that 
non-disclosure could amount to an action that Lloyds could be responsible to answer.
Mr O has asked whether it is acceptable for Business C to sell products in this way or 
without being fully transparent. Whilst I understand why he asks this, its not something I am 
able to answer. My role isnt to regulate or oversee the sales of products bought with credit, 
rather its to consider whether the business lending the money might have a complaint to 
answer arising out of the sale. And, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Lloyds is 
responsible for what might have gone wrong under the relevant legal provision.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman