DRN-3161575
The complaint
Mr W complains on behalf of his business, which Ill call T, that Advanced Payment 
Solutions, trading as Cashplus, wont reimburse transactions it didnt make or otherwise 
authorise.
  
What happened
Mr W was seeking a refund from an on-line selling platform and payment service provider for 
a game he had been charged twice for. He looked up a telephone number for it online, which 
he had done previously.
He called a number he believed belonged to the provider. It agreed to provide a refund but 
that bank accounts for other providers (and which Mr W banked through) couldnt process 
payments and he was asked if he had another account the refund could be returned to. Mr 
W only had his business, Ts, account. And so he gave the details needed for a refund. He 
was told by the call handler that they needed to verify it was him calling and said he would 
need to provide the code that was sent through to him to do that. He was told the initial 
codes sent through didnt work  and he shared three codes in all.
Unbeknownst to him, the number he had called was fake, and he was speaking with a 
scammer. And as a result three payments were taken from Ts account without Mr Ws 
knowledge:
Date Payment Foreign exchange fee total
20 August 2020 £1,225.95
20 August 2020 £4.548.26
20 August 2020 £763.63 £6,537.84
22 August 2020 £36.66
22 August 2020 £135.99
22 August 2020 £22.83 £195.48
Mr W complained about the unauthorised transactions being taken from Ts account. But 
Cashplus didnt uphold the complaint. Our investigator was satisfied the transactions were 
unauthorised  and that as the payments had been sent online to a merchant abroad, the 
Distance Contract Regulations applied. This essentially meant that the unauthorised 
transactions ought to be refunded as there was no provision for a customer to be held liable 
where they might have acted with intent or gross negligence.
Cashplus didnt agree the Distance Contract Regulations applied  as T didnt actually enter 
into any contract. And it said if they did apply, payment service providers couldnt hold any 
customer liable for any card transaction that was made via the internet/telephone which 
would leave financial institutions in a perilous situation. Cashplus also said Mr W shared his 
one-time-passcode despite warnings within the message not to do so; it doesnt consider the 
actions to be those of a reasonable person.
We pointed out to Cashplus that the codes sent werent one-time-passcodes and didnt 
contain any warnings not to share the information. But it stood by its decision to hold Mr W, 
on behalf of T, liable for the transactions as it still felt he should have known not the share 
the information.
I issued my provisional decision on 26 October 2021, explaining why I was minded to uphold 
this complaint. Mr W, on behalf of T, has accepted my provisional findings. Cashplus didnt 
have anything further to add other than to reiterate its belief that Mr W was grossly negligent 
in sharing the three codes. 
As I have already considered whether the sharing of the codes was grossly negligent, and 
Cashplus hasnt provided any new evidence or arguments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to alter my provisional findings, and so I make them final. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), T isnt liable for unauthorised 
transactions, unless Mr W failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms of 
the account or keep the personalised security details safe.
Ive considered whether Mr W authorised the transactions that have been disputed  and so, 
in line with the PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps to make the payments or gave 
consent for someone else to complete them.
The terms and conditions of the account arent clear on what steps are required to make 
payments. The investigator made a reasonable assumption that card/account details would 
need to be input on the merchants website and that any security codes would also be 
required to complete the steps. Cashplus hasnt sought to dispute this and so I proceed on 
the same basis.
It doesnt appear in dispute that Mr W shared the card/account information including the 
codes that were sent to him. But I havent seen any evidence or arguments that it was Mr W 
that completed the steps needed in order for the payments to be made, or that he consented 
to someone else doing so. As Im not persuaded Mr W completed all the agreed steps to 
make the payments from Ts account, or that he consented to someone else doing so, I find 
the payments totalling £6,537.84 were unauthorised.
The investigator upheld the complaint as she believed the Distance Contract Regulations 
were applicable to these payments  which meant a failure with intent or gross negligence 
wasnt a consideration. However, those regulations are only applicable for consumer 
contracts  not business. And as the payments were taken from a business account, Im not 
persuaded the regulations apply.
So I have gone on to consider whether Mr W failed with intent, or gross negligence, to keep 
the security details safe.
Having considered the matter carefully, Im not persuaded Mr W failed with intent to keep the 
security credentials safe  he believed he was proving information in order to receive a 
refund.
I also dont find that Mr W failed with gross negligence. Mr W believed he was conversing 
with someone from the platform. He was told that he would get the refund he was seeking. 
And as the person he was speaking with knew of a bank and a credit card provider he was a 
customer of, he felt reassured he was talking with a genuine party. He therefore didnt think 
there was anything amiss when providing the account details of the business account in order for the refund to be received. And he was told that he would be sent codes needed to 
verify he was the actual card holder. I dont think this means Mr W seriously disregarded an 
obvious risk and therefore, failed with gross negligence.
Cashplus initially argued that Mr W had shared the codes, despite the message they were 
given in warning him not to. But we have shown Cashplus that its code messages contained 
no such warning. Not only that, they also didnt show that payments were being made from 
the account or who too. This is information that might have prevented Mr W falling victim to 
this scam.
The messages simply contained a numbered code and an instruction to enter the number. 
Given the various ways customers are verified, including by providing such codes, I can see 
how Mr W was led into believing this was a necessary part of the security process. Passing 
security or verifying they are a genuine customer is a process used by genuine staff when 
speaking with their account holders. I think a lot of people would have been fooled into doing 
the same or something similar to Mr W.
I dont think Mr Ws actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would have done that 
it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude T isnt liable for the transactions in dispute, or 
the foreign exchanges costs associated with them and so Cashplus needs to put that right  
by refunding the loss from the unauthorised transactions and associated costs, alongside 
interest to compensate T for the loss of use of the funds.
Cashplus can hold T liable for the first £35, as per the PSRs  not £50 as set out in the 
terms and conditions.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus to:
reimburse the unauthorised transactions totalling £6,537.84 and the 
associated exchange rates fees of £195.48  less the £35 allowed for in the 
PSRs if it chooses to apply that; and
pay 8% simple interest per annum on those amounts, from the date the 
transactions left the account to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully 
deductible).

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman