DRN-3751357
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she had numerous problems when she bought a new kitchen with a 
loan from Ikano Bank AB (publ) and shes unhappy with Ikanos response when she 
requested a refund and compensation.
What happened
Mrs S ordered new kitchen in January 2020 (from a supplier that Ill call S). The kitchen cost 
about £5,850 and Mrs S paid £10 in advance and took out a loan with Ikano for the balance. 
There were multiple issues with planning, ordering, delivery and fitting. Mrs S says S agreed 
to reduce the cost to just over £2,600 and told her to contact Ikano about amending the 
finance to reflect this. Mrs S got in touch with Ikano but she was unhappy with the response 
and she referred the matter to our service in February 2021. Mrs S told us that she wanted 
compensation of about £11,000 on account of poor service and unreasonable delay which 
included a full refund plus £3,750 for her time (£250 a day for 15 lost working days due to 
missed delivery/installation dates) and £1,500 compensation for stress and inconvenience.
Ikano responded to Mrs S in March and June 2021 acknowledging it hadnt handled the 
complaint as well as it should have. Ikano offered to pay £75 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience associated with that but it didnt amend the finance. Ikano said S disputed the 
refund claimed on the grounds that Mrs S had already been compensated fairly with goods 
and services supplied, at no additional cost, worth around £2,000.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She was satisfied that an amended
order (in June 2020) showed that S agreed to reduce the price  due to changes to the 
original order  and Ikano confirmed that the loan agreement would be amended 
accordingly. She thought Ikano should therefore amend the loan to reduce the amount 
borrowed and the loan term - and pay Mrs S £200 compensation but Ikano didnt agree. 
Ikano said (essentially) the finance couldnt be amended because Mrs S had received fair 
compensation already  including an award from another alternative dispute resolution 
(ADR) organisation. Mrs S had raised a separate dispute with S via that ADR service and, in 
July 2021, her claim was upheld in part. Mrs S sent us a summary of the award, which 
required S to reduce the price of the kitchen by £700 and pay her £300 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. The summary didnt explain what the award was for exactly 
however - it referred to detailed reasons which werent attached. 
The investigator asked Mrs S for a full copy of the relevant decision - but she was unable to 
supply this, unfortunately. The investigator issued a second view explaining that Mrs S had 
raised a claim for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation by S with Ikano under section 
75 of the Consumer Rights Act 1974 (CCA). And this service was considering whether 
Ikanos response to that claim was fair and reasonable, in all the circumstances. 
The Investigator couldnt be sure what Mrs S had been compensated for exactly by S, based 
on the evidence shed seen. She didnt think it would be fair to compensate Mrs S twice for 
the same thing. And, looking at everything that happened, she wasnt persuaded there was 
enough evidence to safely conclude that Mrs S was due an additional refund or more 
compensation. She didnt think Ikano had treated Mrs S unfairly or unreasonably in all the 
circumstances. And she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs S disagreed. She says she was misled by S about the refund process - she thought the 
other ADR award related to her dispute with S only and she still had the option to claim a 
further refund from Ikano. She asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I thought it was fair to give 
the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond if they wanted to before I 
made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 28 September 2022. Ive set out 
what I decided provisionally (and why) below (in italics) and this forms part of my final 
decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ive spoken to Mrs S and I understand she feels strongly that shes been treated unfairly
here. I want to assure her that Ive considered everything thats been said and sent to us 
carefully. If I dont address every single point thats been raised, its not because I havent
thought about it. I have. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on the key issues that I
think are relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome overall.
Section 75
Mrs S brings this complaint about Ikano to the Financial Ombudsman Service because she
paid for the goods and services with a loan from Ikano. And, under section 75 (CCA), a
consumer has an equal right to claim against the supplier or the lender if theres been a
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (in certain circumstances).
I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. Im required to take taking relevant law (among other things) into account.
And I think its reasonable to consider section 75 in the circumstances here. I want to be
clear however that its not my role to apply the law - only a court can do that. Im looking
instead at whether Ikano has taken appropriate steps in response to Mrs Ss section 75
claim.
I havent seen a complete copy of the contract for the supply and installation of the kitchen
between Mrs S and S but it looks as if the Ikano loan funded both. And Im satisfied that S
would have been required (broadly speaking) to provide goods of satisfactory quality and
undertake services with reasonable skill and care (under the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
What went wrong and what, if anything, did S do to put things right ?
Im looking at Ikanos response to Mrs Ss section 75 claim in this decision. And, in order for
me to reasonably conclude that Ikano should provide a refund or compensation, Id have to
be satisfied thered been a misrepresentation and/or breaches of the supply and installation
contract by S and Mrs S has lost out as a result.
Mrs S told us there were many issues with almost every part of this purchase - from planningand ordering the kitchen to delivery and fitting, numerous items were either unavailable or
proved unsuitable and deliveries and installation were delayed for months. In fairness, Mrs S
ordered the kitchen just before the start of the pandemic. I think its likely some of the
problems may have been the result of lockdowns that followed and associated supply issues
so its possible S wasnt liable for everything that went wrong. Im satisfied however (from
correspondence Ive seen between S and Mrs S) that S seems to have accepted
responsibility for a number of issues.
I can see that the parties agreed several changes to the original contract in order to get the
installation completed. S says this included the provision of £2,000 worth of additional goods 
and services at no additional cost to Mrs S. Mrs S has confirmed that several items were 
replaced, some with more expensive alternatives, at various stages. She said some lighting
accessories were removed entirely, two ovens at £599 were removed and she only received
one replacement worth £399, a tap that cost £60 wasnt available so S supplied one at £90
and a custom made work top and quartz backsplash were supplied free.
Having spoken to Mrs S, its clear that not all of the changes agreed were documented.
From the information Ive got, I cant be certain what additional services and items were
provided when  and what, if any, were the precise cost implications. Correspondence Ive
seen from S suggests, for example, the worktop ordered originally cost £270 and the custom
made worktop cost nearly four times as much. 
Mrs S says she thought extra items were provided free and she referred me to an 
amended order that S provided in June 2020, in particular. I accept the June 2020 order 
shows a new balance of £3,238 - which is about £2,600 less than the original price. And I 
can see Ikano indicated that the finance would be adjusted, around the same time. Im afraid 
I cant be certain that was the end of the matter however. 
I say this because it looks as if the installation wasnt completed until October 2020 and the
parties had further negotiations to resolve various issues, including delayed installation.
Im satisfied the kitchen was installed successfully by the end of 2020  Ive seen an email
from Mrs S to S confirming that. And I accept some items supplied are not the exact ones 
that Mrs S chose at the start. But it looks as if the parties agreed to several substitutions 
along the way for varying reasons, not all of which were documented.
I appreciate Mrs S feels strongly that any substitutions that cost more were not her concern 
 she considers S had to provide these in order to get the job done. But, Ive seen reference 
(in correspondence) to more expensive items being included for the same price (as original 
items). So, it looks as if S may well have agreed to provide these at no additional cost, 
meaning the price agreed at the outset wouldnt increase - not there would be no charge at 
all for the items.
I understand Mrs S feels if she has to pay for so called extras that means shell pay the
original price for the kitchen and receive no compensation for delay, poor customer service,
stress and inconvenience plus her time. I accept the price difference - between the original
order and the parts of the original order that were actually supplied - was about £2,609. But,
as Ive explained above, I can see that some more costly items were substituted at times. I
think its reasonably to take this into account. And I cant reasonably exclude the award from
the other ADR service.
The ADR award
After Mrs S raised a dispute with S last year, via another ADR organisation, S was
required to pay her about £1,000. Mrs S says she was under the impression this was for
poor customer service and delay - which shouldnt affect her complaint against Ikano, whichis about goods ordered and paid for but not received. Mrs S told us she only agreed the 
other ADR outcome because S said she would get another refund from Ikano. 
I havent seen any documentary evidence to show what Mrs S may have been told at the 
time. Even if I was satisfied that S had misled Mrs S about this, its not something I can hold 
Ikano responsible for. I dont have a complete copy of the other ADR award or the evidence 
before that organisation. The paperwork I have seen suggests that Mrs Ss claim against S 
covered much the same issues as she raised with Ikano here.
Im satisfied that S did supply some extras in efforts to make good certain breaches of the
agreement it had with Mrs S. The paperwork Ive seen isnt clear about the associated cost
but S says additional goods and services provided were worth about £2,000. I have nothing 
to contradict that, conclusively. And, if this amount is deducted from the refund set out in the 
order amended in June 2020, it leaves about £600 outstanding. 
So, whilst I cant be certain what the other ADR award covered exactly, I can see that S was 
ordered to reduce the cost of the kitchen by a similar figure (£700) in July 2021 - and pay 
Mrs S £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I appreciate Mrs S feels this 
doesnt cover everything  it fails to reimburse her financially for her time, for example. But, 
Im afraid the remedy for breach of contract wouldnt usually include compensating a 
consumer for their time, in the way that Mrs S would like, in this situation.
Should Ikano have to do anything else ?
I appreciate Mrs S may have believed that she had two separate claims here  one against
S and one against Ikano - and she feels shes still entitled to a further refund and
compensation from Ikano. Mrs Ss section 75 claim against Ikano is dependent however on
a breach of contract and/or misrepresentation by S. Like the investigator, I dont think it 
would be fair for Mrs S to recover twice (potentially) for the same breaches. And I dont have 
enough evidence to fairly find that shes entitled to a further price reduction or additional 
compensation, in the circumstances here.
Im satisfied that Ikano looked into Mrs Ss section 75 claim. And, taking into account the
changes agreed by the parties, the various extras S supplied to rectify breaches of the
original agreement as well as the award made by the other ADR service, Im not persuaded
that Ikano has treated her unfairly. Based on the evidence Ive got, I cant therefore 
reasonably require Ikano to provide a further refund or pay more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional decision and let me have any further 
comments or information by 12 October 2022. I said Id look at all the evidence available 
after that and make my final decision. The parties havent objected to my provisional findings 
or made any further submissions. 
I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions in the circumstances. 
I remain of the view theres insufficient evidence to fairly conclude that Mrs S is entitled to a 
further price reduction or additional compensation and I cant reasonably require Ikano to 
provide a refund or do anything else. I realise this decision is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mrs S but shes not obliged to accept what Ive said - in which case it 
remains open to her to pursue the matter by any other means available. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman