DRN-2851907
The complaint
Mr A complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited avoided his motorbike policy (treated
it like it never existed) and kept his premium.
What happened
Mr A took out a motorbike policy with MCE over the telephone and paid for the policy in one
lump sum.
MCE said Mr A answered the question it asked about his previous driving convictions 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to avoid his policy and keep any premium Mr A had paid it.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. He thought it wasnt fair MCE avoided his policy and kept 
his premium. He said all the driving convictions he had were the result of one incident, and 
only thought he needed to let MCE know about the one he got points on his licence for  
which he did.
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint and recommended it be upheld. He 
thought Mr A had failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
answering the question MCE asked about his previous driving convictions. But he thought 
that misrepresentation was a careless misrepresentation not one that was deliberate or 
reckless. He recommended that MCE remove any record of Mr As policy being avoided and 
provide him with a pro-rata refund of his premium.
MCE disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Its said Mr As misrepresentation
was deliberate or reckless and thinks its entitled to take the action it took.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
MCE thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
was asked about whether he had any previous driving convictions. MCE said Mr A let it 
know hes had one previous conviction - an IN10, but when Mr A sent in his licence details, 
this showed he has two additional convictions - an LC20 and a TS50.
Ive listened to the sales call in which Mr A takes out this policy. In the call hes asked if he 
has any motoring convictions in the last five years - Mr A says he has. The agent then asks 
What convictions? What do you have sir? What was that?  Mr A says, driving the car 
without insurance. The agent then says an IN10 motoring conviction which Mr A confirms. 
The agent then moves on to asking further questions about Mr As motorbike.
Later in the same call the agent asks Mr A if in the last five years hes had any motoring 
convictions, endorsements, fixed penalty notices, been disqualified or have any convictions 
pending. The agent then says hes got the IN10 he said he got and asks Mr A when he 
got this. Mr A says this was in 2017. The agent then asks Mr A if he has any other 
convictions. Mr A says he doesnt.
Mr As licence clearly shows two other convictions in addition to the IN10. So, its clear the 
information he gave to MCE was incorrect. What I have to consider when determining 
whether or not Mr A took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation is whether he 
was asked a clear question - which Im satisfied he was  and why he answered the way he 
did.
Mr A has said he only told MCE about the IN10 as all three convictions were the result of the 
same incident. And this may well be the case. But I dont think MCE gave Mr A any 
impression he only needed to tell it about one of the three convictions. MCE was clear in 
letting Mr A know it wanted to know about any other convictions in addition to the IN10 he 
told it about. Im satisfied Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when answering MCEs question about his motoring convictions.
MCE has provided evidence in the form of its underwriting criteria that shows that if Mr A 
hadnt made the misrepresentation and told it about all his convictions, it would have 
charged him more for his policy. This means Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
MCE has said Mr As misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. Its said it asked him a 
clear question and Mr A answered this question knowing the answer he gave was incorrect. 
Our investigator didnt think this was fair and thought it fairer that MCE treat Mr As 
misrepresentation as if it were careless.
Ive considered why Mr A answered the way he did. He said he only got points for the IN10, 
and as he got all three convictions as a result of one incident, he thought he only needed to 
let MCE know about the one he got points for. An LC20 and a TS50 driving conviction 
usually carry points. Ive not seen Mr As points on his licence, but even if he didnt get any 
points for these two convictions, I dont think this meant he didnt need to let MCE know 
about them. As mentioned above, after listening to the call I dont think MCE gave him the 
impression he only needed to let it know about convictions that carried points. I think it was 
clear in letting Mr A know it wanted to know about any other convictions he had in addition to 
the IN10 hed told it about. 
CIDRA says a qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if Mr A knew or didnt 
care if the information was misleading and knew the matter was important to MCE or didnt 
care if the matter was important to MCE. I appreciate all three convictions may have been 
the result of one incident, but they are for three different offences. An IN10 is a conviction for 
driving without insurance, an LC20 is a conviction for driving otherwise in accordance with a 
driving licence, and a TS50 is a conviction for not adhering to a traffic signal. Mr A hasnt 
said he didnt know about these convictions. He said he just didnt think he needed to let 
MCE know about them. But Mr A didnt ask if he needed to let MCE know about these convictions, he made an assumption that he didnt need to let MCE know about them. On 
this basis, I think he either knew or didnt care that the information he was giving was 
misleading, and he knew or didnt care that the information was important to MCE. 
Therefore, I think its reasonable that MCE treat Mr As misrepresentation as deliberate or
reckless.
As Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions MCE can take in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA says if qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless MCE can avoid the 
policy from the date it was taken out, and it may keep the premium Mr A has paid it. As this 
is the action MCE has taken, Im satisfied its an action CIDRA entitles it to take. And in light 
of all this, Im satisfied this leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
My provisional decision
 
Based on the above, my provisional decision is that Im thinking of not upholding Mr As 
complaint.
Mr A didnt respond to my provisional decision. MCE had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr A nor MCE had anything further to add to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from its findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman