DRN-2511450
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has declined her claim for 
compensation in relation to a concert ticket purchase she made using her credit card.
What happened
While on a trip to Las Vegas, Mrs K bought tickets to a concert. She used her Halifax 
MasterCard credit card, buying from the venue box office. Unfortunately, Mrs Ks concert-
going experience was less enjoyable than shed hoped. She says that despite arriving in 
plenty of time, delays in passing through security meant that her party werent able to take 
their seats until some way into the concert. Mrs K adds that she was unable to enjoy a pre-
show drink or buy a programme, and that the experience was further diminished by 
continuing late arrivals and some technical issues with the sound and visual effects.
Mrs K was unable to register a formal complaint with the box office until she returned to the 
UK. She says that following an exchange of emails, she was offered complimentary tickets 
to a future event at the venue. Mrs K was dissatisfied with the merchants response, as she 
was unable to make use of such an offer unless she returned to Las Vegas. She contacted 
Halifax to make a claim under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA1974).
Halifax recredited Mrs Ks account pending the outcome of its investigation. However, it 
subsequently reversed the credit. The bank said that the merchant had provided Mrs K and 
her party with non-refundable admission to the concert and that the merchant had said it was 
Mrs Ks responsibility to ensure she arrived in sufficient time. Mrs K was unhappy with 
Halifaxs response, which she felt missed the key points she had made. She complained to 
the bank, who issued a final response saying Mrs K hadnt demonstrated a breach of 
contract by the merchant such that the merchant (and, by extension, Halifax) was liable for 
the queues and technical faults.
Our investigator noted that Halifax had initially attempted to deal with Mrs K by trying to 
chargeback the purchase transaction. He didnt think that was an unreasonable approach, 
but was ultimately unlikely to be successful given the merchants position. The investigator 
also concluded that Halifax hadnt treated Mrs K unfairly in its consideration of her claim 
made under section 75 of the CCA1974. He didnt think the time it took Mrs Ks party to pass 
through security and take their seats amounted to a breach of contract, or that there had 
been any misrepresentation in relation to the concert or performance such that a section 75 
claim would be successful.
Following Mrs Ks further submissions the investigator considered her position in respect of 
the merchants offer of complimentary tickets to a future show. He didnt think the offer 
amounted to an acceptance on the merchants part that it had breached its contract with Mrs 
K, and that he couldnt therefore recommend that Halifax provide alternative compensation.
Mrs K remains dissatisfied and has asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that theres no question here over whether Mrs K received her 
concert tickets, or over any of the events shes described as being detrimental to what 
should have been an enjoyable evenings entertainment. The key issue is the extent to 
which, by virtue of the fact Mrs K used her Halifax credit card to buy the concert tickets, the 
bank has a responsibility to assist in recovering payment or to compensate her itself.
Mrs Ks use of her credit card gives her two potential avenues to do so. One of these is the 
card scheme rules, which in certain specific circumstances allow a card issuer to challenge a 
transaction with a merchant. Although chargeback wasnt the basis of Mrs Ks claim against 
Halifax, the investigator thought it appropriate to consider whether this might have resulted in 
recovering Mrs Ks money. He concluded that Halifax had acted reasonably in deciding not 
to pursue the chargeback route in light of the merchants response.
Where a chargeback claim in respect of defective goods or services is defended by a 
merchant, the MasterCard scheme rules indicate further evidence may be required. The 
rules mention documentation from an expert, the availability of which in Mrs Ks case seems 
unlikely. I take Mrs Ks point that she offered to provide Halifax with her email exchanges 
with the merchant. Having read those emails, while the merchant acknowledges Mrs Ks 
disappointment, they also decline to refund her.
Commercial entities (particularly those in the entertainment and hospitality sectors) do from 
time to time offer complimentary tickets, vouchers and discounts as a gesture of goodwill to 
disappointed patrons, in order to preserve the customer relationship and secure repeat 
business. It seems to me thats what the merchant was doing here. I dont think the emails 
provide sufficiently persuasive evidence that the service Mrs K received was defective, such 
that the chargeback would have been upheld in her favour had Halifax pursued it.
The other avenue open to Mrs K  and under which she has sought to claim  is section 75 
of the CCA1974. One effect of section 75 of the CCA1974 is that, where an individual buys 
goods from a supplier using credit provided under pre-existing arrangements between the 
lender and the supplier, that individual can in certain specific circumstances bring a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against the lender in the same way he could against 
the supplier. In the context of Mrs Ks claim, the supplier was the venue box office and 
Halifax was the lender.
Demonstrating a breach of contract is a higher bar than simply expressing dissatisfaction 
with the way in which the contract was carried out. In order for Mrs Ks claim in breach of 
contract against Halifax to be successful, as I understand it she would need to be able to 
satisfy a court on a number of aspects, including (but not limited to) the following:
a) that her contract with the merchant gave her a reasonable expectation that she would 
be admitted before the concert started, as long as she arrived in sufficient time;
b) that the merchant was responsible for the security arrangements at the venue;
c) that the standard of those security arrangements was sufficiently below a reasonably 
expected level; and
d) that the law applicable in the relevant jurisdiction  in this case, Las Vegas  contains 
provisions that entitle her to make such a claim, and to the remedy shes seeking.
Halifaxs position as stated in its final response is that Mrs K hasnt demonstrated her claim 
to a sufficient standard. I think thats a reasonable response in the individual circumstances of this case. The bank is entitled to defend itself when it receives a claim, and at present, the 
evidence isnt compelling that a breach of contract has occurred. Its entirely possible that 
Mrs K might be able to produce the level of evidence necessary to demonstrate her claim, 
and Id expect Halifax to review its position should she do so. But as things currently stand, I 
cant properly expect Halifax to compensate Mrs K.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman