DRN-3049879
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Moneys online banking 
service, because it doesnt show him the transactions on his mortgage account.
What happened
Mr H has a mortgage account with Virgin Money.
In February 2021, Mr H contacted Virgin Money to complain that hes unable to see his 
mortgage account transactions online  instead he can just see his overall mortgage 
balance. Virgin Money responded to Mr Hs complaint to say it was sorry the information Mr 
H needed wasnt on its online mobile or internet platform. It offered him £25 for the distress 
and inconvenience this had caused him, and this was paid into his account in March 2021.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. He said Virgin Money werent providing an acceptable 
service, because he could only find out about transactions on his mortgage account by 
calling Virgin Money, or from his annual statements. Virgin Money said it didnt have any 
current plans to offer the service Mr H wanted.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt think Virgin Money had done 
anything wrong. Mr H didnt agree. So, his complaints been passed to me for review and a 
decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The role of our service is to resolve individual disputes between businesses and consumers. 
If somethings gone wrong, and a consumers lost out, we can ask the business to put it 
right. But I dont have the power to tell Virgin Money how to run its business. This is down to 
its own commercial judgement.
I appreciate it would be more convenient for Mr H to be able to access his mortgage 
transactions online. But theres no rule or regulation to say Virgin Money needs to offer this 
service to its customers. So, its free to decide if it offers this service or not. I cant tell Virgin 
Money to change its online banking system because Mr H isnt happy with what it provides.
Mr H can access information about his mortgage account by phone, and he also receives 
annual statements. So he does have options which allow him to access the information he 
needs  even if this is less convenient than accessing it online. And I havent seen anything 
to suggest Virgin Money mis-led Mr H about the online services it provides. So, I dont think 
Virgin Moneys made a mistake, or treated Mr H unfairly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H. But I dont think Virgin Moneys done anything wrong, so Im not 
going to ask it to do anything more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman