DRN-2634638
The complaint
Miss L complains how Aviva Insurance Limited handled her claim on her car insurance 
policy.
What happened
The complaint is well known to both parties and Ive summarised the key points below.
Miss L had a non-fault accident in September 2020.
The vehicle was arranged to be repaired by Avivas approved repairer and the £450 
excess shouldve been collected by them but wasnt. 
When the excess was recovered from the third party it was refunded to Miss L in 
error.
In December 2020, Miss L called Aviva when she received the £450 cheque as she 
wasnt expecting it and was told it was her excess which had been returned by the 
third-party insurer and that it was hers to spend  which she did.
In January 2021, Miss L was contacted by the repairer as it realised it had made an 
error in not collecting the excess previously.
Miss L feels its unfair that she must pay this back when it wasnt her fault. She also 
isnt in a financial position to pay this back in one sum.
Aviva accept an error was made by their approved repairer and has compensated 
Miss L £50 for the inconvenience. The repairer has also made an agreement with 
Miss L so she can pay the excess in instalments.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed and asked for it to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Avivas repairer made an error in not collecting the excess at time of 
the repairs. And Im sorry to hear this has caused Miss L distress and inconvenience.
Miss L says she didnt know an excess had to be paid. It would be unusual to not have an 
excess with a claim of this nature, so Ive looked at the policy and schedule sent to Miss L 
when she took out the insurance in April 2020. 
The policy wording clearly shows excess as The amount you will have to pay towards any 
claim. It also states:
If your car is lost, stolen or damaged you are responsible for paying the excess shown in 
your schedule, no matter how the loss or damage happened. 
Her schedule also shows her the amount of excess to be paid in event of a claim.
Paying an excess is common across the insurance industry, and when Miss L took out her 
policy, she was agreeing to the terms and conditions, and that is the contract she entered. 
I can see Aviva also notified Miss L at the time of loss that she would need to pay the excess 
to the repairer. I can empathise that this wouldve been at a period where Miss L was dealing 
with many parties as well as just been being involved in a recent accident, but Im satisfied 
that she was made aware of the requirement.
So, although I agree that Avivas repairer shouldnt have made the error it doesnt mean that 
Miss L should be released from her obligation to pay the excess as per the policy terms. 
I appreciate Miss L called Aviva to question why shed received the cheque and she was told 
it was her excess being refunded by the third party its clear Aviva gave her the wrong 
information at this point. But again, this mistake doesnt stop her obligation under the policy 
to pay her excess. 
I can see Aviva have offered £50 compensation for the errors and it also asked its repairer to 
make an arrangement for a payment plan. Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable, so I 
wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman