DRN-1426245
 
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wouldnt give her a new card after 
she entered into a repayment plan. 
What happened
Miss A had a Barclaycard account. Unfortunately, due to ill health, she was unable to make 
her monthly repayments. Barclays closed her account and agreed a repayment plan with 
her. It told Miss A that once she started making regular payments on the plan, she would be 
able to use her card again. 
Once she was making payments, Miss A asked Barclays for a replacement card but the 
agent said it wouldnt issue one until the repayment plan was finished. This information 
wasnt correct because the account was closed. Miss A complained.
Barclays acknowledged that it had given incorrect information, failed to call her back, and 
delayed recording her complaint. It paid Miss A £50 by way of apology for these shortfalls. 
Miss A didnt think it was enough. She has asked for an increase in the payment and for 
Barclays to issue a card to her.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that Barclays closed the account 
when she fell behind with repayments and it had told Miss A at the time. So the repayment 
plan was to clear the debt. Our investigator went on to explain that once an account is 
closed, it is permanently inaccessible so Barclays isnt able to issue a replacement card.
Our investigator saw that Barclays had made a mistake in telling Miss A that shed be able to 
use her card again. However, he thought the £50 payment was a fair acknowledgement of 
the inconvenience and incorrect information and he didnt think Barclays needed to pay any 
more.
Miss A didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed.
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Miss A will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Both Miss A and Barclays agree on the facts of the case. What remains is for me to decide 
whether Barclays acted fairly and sympathetically in response to Miss As complaint.Firstly, Id like to say Im pleased that Miss As financial position improved enough that she 
was able to make regular payments. It mustve been a relief for her.
Ive looked at the card statements Barclays sent to Miss A and I can see that it told her on 
several occasions that her account was in arrears. It also invited her to make contact to 
discuss her financial position. When Miss A contacted Barclays about her circumstances, it 
agreed to reduce the interest rate significantly and accept a fixed regular amount on a 
repayment plan to clear the debt. I think Barclays responded to Miss A both fairly and 
sympathetically.
Ive also seen that the statements show Miss As card was withdrawn and the credit limit, 
even after she had made regular payments, was set to zero. Im satisfied that Barclays told 
Miss A her account was closed.
The only mistakes Ive seen are those already discussed  Barclays gave incorrect 
information, failed to call Miss A back and it didnt record her complaint promptly. The 
information Barclays gave Miss A didnt cause her any financial loss and her position 
wouldve been the same if the agent had given correct information. Thats because the 
account was already closed and it wasnt able to issue a replacement card. So, Im satisfied 
that £50 in recognition of the service shortfalls is enough. I wont be asking Barclays to do 
any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman