DRN-1988336
The complaint
Mrs M complains that TSB Bank plc turned down her application to transfer her mortgage 
into her sole name and take additional borrowing. And she is unhappy that TSB wouldnt 
agree to waive the early repayment charge applicable to the mortgage.
What happened
Mrs M and her ex-partner took out a mortgage with TSB in May 2018. They split up soon 
afterwards.
Mrs M says she contacted her mortgage advisor in August 2018 to discuss buying out her 
ex-partner. The adviser contacted TSB to find out details of the process for taking out an 
additional loan but TSB advised that it wasnt able to help at that time due to system issues. 
Due to this, TSB said it would waive the early redemption charge (ERC). 
Mrs M contacted TSB in February 2019 and applied to transfer the loan into her sole name 
and take out additional borrowing. But TSB advised that Mrs M didnt meet the lending 
criteria and so it didnt agree her application. And it also told her that it wouldnt waive the 
ERC.
Mrs M complained to TSB. But TSB didnt uphold her complaint. It said, in summary:
When Mrs M had made her application in February to remove her ex-partner from the 
mortgage and take out additional lending it could not proceed past the decision in 
principle stage, as there was a shortfall in the loan amount she required of around 
£100,000;
When Mrs M had complained in May it initiated an appeal process taking into 
account that she had repaid some of her debts and had increased her income. It had 
continued her application and had yet to come to a decision on this;
It appreciated that Mrs M wanted it to waive the ERC if it was unable to provide her 
with the lending she required. But the ERC was part of the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage that she agreed to and it was unable to waive it.
TSB subsequently declined Mrs Ms application. And Mrs M later redeemed the mortgage 
and paid the ERC. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She said, in 
summary, that Mrs M was wanting to make changes that were material to affordability. So 
she felt it was right for TSB to carry out a detailed assessment of affordability to comply with 
Financial Conduct Authority requirements. Based on the evidence shed seen, she felt that 
TSB had correctly assessed Mrs Ms application. And, as there was no error in applying the 
ERC, she wouldnt be asking TSB to waive it.
Mrs M doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. She says in particular that TSB had previously agreed to 
waive the ERC, and her financial position was significantly affected by having to change 
mortgage provider and pay the ERC of around £18,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M so Ill explain why Ive 
reached this decision.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage illustration which formed part of the offer letter issued to 
Mrs M and her ex partner in March 2018. Paragraph 8 of the illustration provides that Mrs M 
and her ex partner had the right to repay the loan early, either fully or partially. And it set out 
the ERC that would be payable if they mortgage was paid before May 2023. Im satisfied 
from this that Mrs M should have been aware that an ERC would be payable if she 
redeemed the mortgage before that date.
As our investigator has explained, the Financial Conduct Authority requires lenders to carry 
out strict affordability assessments for new mortgages and changes to existing mortgages. 
And, while a lender can disregard an affordability assessment if material changes to 
affordability arent being made, in Mrs Ms case she was requesting the removal of her ex-
partner and also additional borrowing. So I dont think that TSB made an error in considering 
whether the changes Mrs M wanted were affordable for her. And, having reviewed the 
documentation available to me, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that TSB acted 
unfairly in considering her application.
Mrs M has said that TSB should have waived the ERC as it had a detrimental effect on her 
financial position. But TSB is contractually entitled to apply the ERC. And, as I dont find that 
it made an error in considering her application, Im not persuaded it would be fair for me to 
require it to waive the ERC.
I appreciate that Mrs M says that TSB had previously agreed to waive the ERC. TSB has 
explained that this was because it was having system issues at the time Mrs Ms adviser 
approached it in August 2018 that meant it couldnt process additional loan applications. And 
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mrs Ms adviser explained to her that this was 
the reason that TSB would agree to waive the ERC.
By the time Mrs M approached TSB in February 2019 the system issues had been resolved 
and TSB was able to consider her application. So this doesnt change my decision - I dont 
consider it reasonable to ask TSB to waive the ERC just because it had previously indicated 
it would do so during a period in time when it couldnt consider additional loan applications.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman