DRN-4321554
The complaint
Mr A complains that Revolut Ltd transferred £84.91 out of his account. He would like his 
money returned and substantial compensation.
What happened
Mr A had an account with Revolut. 
Mr A received £50 from an account with a bank I will refer to as M. Mr A has said he didnt 
know what the money was for or who the payment was from. Revolut reviewed Mr As 
account and returned the £50 to source.  Revolut told Mr A it would be closing his account.
Mr A was unhappy that Revolut had returned £50 to source without his permission or notice.  
Mr A had an account balance of £34.91. Mr A transferred this amount to his own account 
with bank M. However due to an error Mr A had sent his closing balance of £34.91 to an 
unknown third party. 
Mr A wanted Revolut to arrange for the balance of £34.91 to be returned to him but Revolut 
said they werent able to.
Mr A was unhappy with Revoluts response, so he complained to our service. One of the 
investigators looked at the complaint. She thought Revolut had acted fairly when they 
returned the £50 to source and she didnt think Revolut needed to tell Mr A the reasons why 
or ask for his consent. She thought Revolut had contributed to the error in Mr A sending his 
closing balance to a wrong account with bank M because Revolut had added that account to 
Mr As list of payees.
Revolut agreed with our investigators view.
Mr A was unhappy with the view. He said he had been a customer for many years and 
Revolut had decided to close his account and hadnt given him a reason. He wanted £84.91 
returned and £300 compensation.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr As account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Revolut were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr As account. 
Because of their obligations Revolut reviewed Mr As accounts. Revolut have said that they 
were concerned about a payment of £50 received into Mr As account. They blocked the 
account and asked Mr A for information about the payment.  This is reflected in Revoluts 
terms and conditions. These say Revolut can block an account or card to meet its legal 
obligations and delay payments if needed to carry out further checks. The terms and 
conditions of the account also allow Revolut to close and suspend accounts immediately in 
some circumstances
Revolut decided to return the £50 to source. I have looked at the information provided by 
Revolut as well as the terms and conditions of the account. Im satisfied that Revolut acted 
fairly when they returned the £50 to source and they were entitled to do so in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. 
Revolut went on to close Mr As account and gave him 50 days to withdraw his remaining 
balance. Mr A has said hes unhappy Revolut closed his account because he had been a 
customer for many years.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. Looking at the 
evidence Im satisfied that Revolut acted fairly here and complied with the terms and its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it closed Mr As account. It follows I wont be asking them to 
pay compensation here.
Mr A has said he wants to know the reason Revolut have decided to close the account. 
Whilst Mr A may have expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Revolut isnt 
required to give him a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Revolut has 
done anything wrong by not giving Mr A this information  as much as hed like to know.
Mr A has asked that Revolut return the £50 that were returned to source. I have looked at 
the evidence and Im satisfied Revolut havent acted unfairly when they returned the funds to 
source so I wont be asking them to return £50 to Mr A. 
Mr A has said that he made an error and sent the closing balance in his account to the 
wrong account with bank M. He says this was due to Revolut adding a third-party account 
payee to Mr As account. Mr A says he didnt realise this wasnt his own account with bank 
M. Revolut have agreed to refund Mr A £34.91. The investigator thought this was a fair 
resolution to the complaint and I agree. I will be asking revolut to refund this to Mr A.
If the amount hasnt been paid, I will need to direct the business to pay the offer 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Revolut Ltd to pay Mr 
A £34.91.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Esperanza FuentesOmbudsman