DRN-4064072
The complaint
Mr N complains about the advice given by The St. Davids Partnership to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him 
and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ns employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
Mr N was concerned about what this announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his pension, so he opted out of the scheme and obtained a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV). Mr Ns benefits had a CETV of £269,362.51. He then sought advice and met with 
The St. Davids Partnership.
The St. Davids Partnership recorded some information about Mr Ns circumstances in a 
fact-find dated 4 August 2016. It noted that he was 52, married with two non-dependent 
children. Mr N was employed earning approximately £45,500. His wife was also employed 
and she earned around £22,000. And they received some rental income from two investment 
properties they owned of around £9,600 (gross) a year. They had a buy-to-let mortgage of 
approximately £50,000 and their home was unencumbered. They had no other liabilities and 
they had around £10,000 in savings. Mr and Mrs Ns combined income exceeded their 
outgoings giving them around £1,300 surplus disposable income per month.
The St. Davids Partnership also carried out an assessment of Mr Ns attitude to risk, which 
on the fact-find was deemed between below average risk and average risk. In the 
subsequent suitability report it was referred to as being above average. But the ultimate 
investment strategy recommended by The St. Davids Partnership was deemed by it to be a 
medium risk approach.
The St. Davids Partnership issued a letter summarising its recommendation (a suitability 
report) on 4 August 2016. This said Mr N was concerned about his DB scheme, and while he 
recognised the PPF was there, it would not provide for the full value of his pension and there 
was no certainty the PPF would remain in its current form. It said Mr N considered the 
schemes death benefits were inferior; he wanted flexibility and choice of how his pension 
was invested; he felt it was the right time to move given the transfer value; and it was highly 
likely he required flexibility of income and capital access. 
The St. Davids Partnership initially recommended that Mr N should not transfer his pension 
because the guarantees were too valuable, the potential loss was too great and the returns 
required were not potentially achievable. But it nevertheless then immediately went on to 
recommend the transfer on the basis of Mr Ns wider objectives as it said it would be suitable 
for his long-term retirement income needs - so long as a guaranteed income was not the 
most important feature of his retirement planning alongside his express need for flexibility 
and the ability to retire at 55.
Mr N complained to The St. Davids Partnership in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer 
advice. Mr N received a letter from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) telling him that 
some of the advice given to BSPS members by certain firms was unsuitable, so he asked 
The St. Davids Partnership to review the advice it had given him. 
The St. Davids Partnership didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said it was apparent that 
Mr Ns decision to leave the scheme was something he was adamant about. It said its 
advice was clear that he shouldnt transfer if he felt guaranteed income was his primary 
concern. It said Mr Ns wider circumstances indicated this wasnt his main concern as he had 
other forms of income due in retirement. It said it fairly examined all of the options available. 
It said it considered its advice was suitable as it met his needs and objectives despite the 
risk, which he was made fully aware of and accepted. 
Mr N referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He says hes unhappy 
with the loss hes suffered as a result of transferring. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. They thought the advice was unsuitable 
as Mr N wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring. 
And they didnt think there were any other compelling reasons to support the transfer. They 
said Mr N didnt need to transfer to retire early at 55; his income objective couldve been met 
by retaining his DB scheme benefits; he didnt need flexibility and theres no evidence to 
support the need to access a lump sum greater than the DB scheme would provide; different 
death benefits wasnt a suitable reason to transfer; and any concerns about or distrust with 
his employer didnt justify a transfer. They said if suitable advice had been given to retain his 
DB scheme benefits, Mr N wouldve likely later made the decision to move with the existing 
scheme to the PPF because of the more favourable early retirement factors.
In the interests of trying to resolve things, The St. Davids Partnership said it was willing to 
carry out a loss calculation to determine if Mr N had lost out as a result of transferring and it 
asked Mr N to provide it with some necessary information to carry things out.
Mr N said he hasnt heard anything more from The St. Davids Partnership. So, as things 
couldnt be resolved informally it is necessary for me to bring the matter to a formal 
conclusion and issue a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of The St. Davids 
Partnership's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, The St. 
Davids Partnership should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ns best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report that The St. Davids Partnership was 
required to carry out by the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ns 
pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits 
as his DB scheme  was 52.2% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to 
under the scheme at age 55 (the age he said he intended to retire.) Or to match the 
maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would provide at that age, 
was 41.6%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 55 the critical yield 
was 49.8% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve 
offered, it was 47.7%.
I have some concerns about how The St. Davids Partnership ultimately categorised 
Mr Ns attitude to risk as above average given the fact-find recorded he was 
between below average and average risk. 
But even if I thought he was prepared to accept the medium risk approach, which 
The St. Davids Partnership deemed was the level of risk in its recommended 
investment strategy, given this, the discount rate of 2.7% for two years to retirement 
and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr N was always likely to receive 
pension benefits, from age 55, of a lower value that those hed have been entitled to 
under the BSPS or the PPF by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to 
risk. And indeed the suitability report noted that ...the critical yield is significant and 
beyond any reasonable investment expectation. Furthermore, The St. Davids 
Partnership first recommended that Mr N should not transfer out of the scheme for 
this reason. It said: The guarantees are too valuable. The potential loss to you and your widow could be considerable. The returns required are not potentially 
achievable. 
For this reason alone, I dont think it was in Mr Ns best interests to transfer to a 
personal pension arrangement. I think The St. Davids Partnership shouldve stopped 
here and stood by its initial recommendation. But it didnt. It immediately undermined 
the recommendation not to transfer by recommending that Mr N should transfer - if a 
guaranteed income wasnt the most important factor to him - because it said it was 
suitable for his long-term retirement needs and would meet his express need for 
flexibility and to retire at 55. So Ive considered whether these other objectives 
justified a transfer despite providing lower overall retirement benefits.
At 52 I think it was likely that Mr N had given his retirement some thought and that he 
wanted to retire early at 55. But he already had this option available to him  he didnt 
have to transfer to achieve things. I can see The St. Davids Partnership said that if 
Mr N remained in the scheme hed incur a penalty for early retirement at 55 
...around 50%. But I dont think it was fair for it to describe an actuarial reduction for 
early retirement as a penalty. I think it implied there were no similar consequences 
for Mr Ns retirement income if he transferred to a personal pension, which wasnt the 
case. In the same way Mr N couldnt reasonably expect the same income from his  
DB scheme hed be entitled to at 65 from age 55, his transferred pension fund could 
not sustainably support that level of income from age 55.
The St. Davids Partnership said Mr N wanted flexibility. And while he couldnt take 
his DB scheme benefits flexibly, nothing indicates he had a strong need to vary his 
income throughout retirement. Also there was no apparent need for a lump sum and 
defer taking an income. And nothing to support a need for a cash lump sum larger 
than his DB scheme would provide. Mr N might have been attracted to the flexibility a 
personal pension provided  but I think this was simply a feature or a consequence of 
transferring to a personal pension rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ns. 
So I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best interests.
 
Mr N said that he wanted a retirement income of £12,000 a year. The St. Davids 
Partnership doesnt appear to have carried out a detailed income and expenditure in 
retirement analysis to interrogate this figure or determine whether it was realistic. 
But on the basis that Mr Ns wife would continue to work and their rental income 
would continue, I think this figure appears reasonable. And on this basis, I think Mr N 
couldve met his income need by retaining his DB scheme benefits. According to 
The St. Davids Partnerships analysis, at 55 Mr N was entitled to a full pension of 
around £16,300 or a reduced pension of around £11,300 a year. 
While the reduced pension wouldnt have met Mr Ns need in full, it wasnt a 
significant shortfall. 
He couldve supplemented his income from his cash lump sum and importantly 
The St. Davids Partnership recorded that he might seek part-time work. So I think 
Mr N couldve reasonably made up for any shortfall this way. 
Overall I think in the circumstances Mr N stood a better chance of meeting his needs 
by remaining in his DB scheme. It provided a guaranteed and escalating income for 
life, which wasnt going to be bettered by transferring. I think retaining his scheme 
pension was a more appropriate way for him to meet his future retirement income 
needs rather than risking his guaranteed benefits to attempt to do so, which Im not 
persuaded he needed to do.Mr N believed the schemes death benefits were inferior and that the value of the 
fund was more advantageous to him and his family. But the priority here was to 
advise him about what was best for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered 
death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his 
family in the event of his death. I think The St. Davids Partnership downplayed the 
value of this benefit.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr N drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr N may have thought it would.
 
If Mr N had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, The St. Davids Partnership 
couldve explored life insurance as an alternative. Mr N appears to have had 
disposable income through which he couldve met the associated premiums. And this 
couldve been considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis  which was 
likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence The St. Davids Partnership did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr N. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately The St. Davids Partnership 
should not have encouraged Mr N to prioritise the potential for alternative death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
The St. Davids Partnership recorded that Mr N wanted greater flexibility and choice 
over his pension and how it was invested. But I think this apparent desire for control 
was overstated. I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to 
manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr N  it was simply another consequence of transferring away from his 
DB scheme.
Mr N may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was The St. Davids 
Partnerships role to objectively address those concerns. I accept at this time 
establishing a new pension scheme was only a possibility. But even if that didnt go 
ahead, the PPF still provided Mr N with guaranteed income and the option of 
accessing tax-free cash. Mr N was unlikely to improve on these benefits by 
transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and 
I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best 
interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ns best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time. And I also havent seen 
enough to persuade me that Mr N wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain 
in the DB scheme. I can see that Mr N chose to opt out of the scheme shortly after the 
March 2016 announcement by his employer I referred to at the start. So I accept he was 
was likely motivated to transfer when he met with The St. Davids Partnership. And it has 
referred to his motivating factors. 
But The St. Davids Partnership wasnt there to simply facilitate what Mr N thought was in his 
best interests  its role was to provide him with advice and determine what was in his best 
interests. Mr N was an inexperienced investor and nothing suggest to me he had the requisite skill or confidence to go against the advice he was given, particularly in complex 
pension matters. I think he relied solely on the advice he was given by The St. Davids 
Partnership. So if things had happened as they should have and hed been advised to retain 
his DB scheme benefits I think, on balance, he wouldve accepted that advice.
So Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr N received from The St. Davids 
Partnership was unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr N, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr N would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF if 
suitable advice had been given. 
The St. Davids Partnership must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
The St. Davids Partnership should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr N and the 
Financial Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting 
evidence of what The St. Davids Partnership based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr N has retired and he started drawing his pension benefits at age 56. So, 
compensation should be based on him taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr N 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, The St. Davids Partnership should:
calculate and offer Mr N redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr N before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr N receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr N accepts The St. Davids Partnerships offer to calculate how much of their 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr N 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ns end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr N as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, The St. Davids Partnership may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income 
from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 
75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ns likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require The St. Davids 
Partnership  to pay Mr N the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
The St. Davids Partnership pays Mr N the balance.
If Mr N accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on The St. Davids 
Partnership.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr N can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr N may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman