DRN-2134983
The complaint
Mr B and Ms S complain that Nationwide Building Society wont agree to remove Ms S from 
their joint mortgage.
What happened
Mr B and Ms S have a joint mortgage with Nationwide which they took in 2007. In early 2020 
Mr B spoke with Nationwide as he wanted to remove Ms S from the mortgage as they had 
separated. Mr B was living in the property with his daughter. But Nationwide told him an 
application wouldnt be successful. It said his income was solely from universal credit and 
was supplemented by payments from his uncle. It therefore didnt think there was evidence 
he could afford the mortgage on his own. It said if Mr B could evidence paying the mortgage 
for three months without any credits from his uncle it would consider his application. But it 
wasnt guaranteed that it would agree to remove Ms S. 
 
Mr B and Ms S brought their complaint to us. Mr B said the payments from his uncle were 
gifts and that he was able to supplement his universal credit income with payments from a 
redundancy payment hed previously received. 
 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt think Nationwide had done anything 
wrong. He noted that Mr B had been in regular receipt of payments from his uncle. And that 
whilst he had supplemented his income with payments from savings gained from being 
made redundant, this money wouldnt last indefinitely. He said Nationwide wasnt declining 
his application based on the fact that his income was from universal credit, but that it didnt 
think taking over the borrowing on his own was affordable. 
 
Mr B didnt agree. He says he doesnt think that Nationwide have explored all options for him 
and his daughter to stay in their home. He said he felt Nationwide were discriminating 
against him. He asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. So its been 
passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for Mr B and his daughter in their current situation. I 
completely understand that their priority is to stay in their home. But Nationwide does have a 
duty to lend responsibly. So if it were to agree to remove Ms S from the mortgage, it must be 
satisfied that Mr B can afford it on his own. 
 
I know Mr B thinks that Nationwide has declined his mortgage due to the fact that his income 
is solely from universal credit payments. And I can see why he thinks this. There have been 
times where Nationwide couldve been clearer within its communication to him. But from 
what Ive seen, I dont think fact that his income is solely from universal credit is the reason 
its declined to remove Ms S from the mortgage.  
 
Nationwide is concerned about the reliance Mr B has on other sources of income which hes 
been using  his savings and payments from his uncle. I think Nationwide has been clear to 
Mr M that if he is able to sustain his payments for three months without these additional 
sources of income, then it will consider his application again. Ive also been provided with a 
copy of Nationwides lending criteria in relation to income received from universal credit. Im 
pleased to see there isnt a blanket policy to simply deny these applications. But at this 
stage, it doesnt feel that Mr Bs universal credit alone can pay his mortgage. 
 
In situations such as this, the relevant regulations say that Nationwide doesnt have to 
complete an affordability assessment if they consider that agreeing to the change is in Mr 
Bs best interests. Ive not seen anything to suggest Nationwide did give this consideration 
when it should have. However, whilst I know Mr B undoubtedly considers this is the case for 
obvious reasons, Im not persuaded that, as things currently stand, that this would be in his 
best interests.  Whilst he has been paying his mortgage on his own  without Ms S - of 
late, from what I can see, hes only managed to do so with help from his family. And hes told 
us that he is using his savings. The savings wont last forever. And the family help could stop 
at any time. Im not persuaded that based on his universal credit alone this mortgage is 
affordable to him at present. The rules do allow Nationwide to agree the application even if it 
doesnt pass a full affordability assessment, though it didnt consider this. But if it had, I dont 
think its likely Nationwide would have considered it would be in Mr Bs best interests to 
commit him to paying a mortgage on his own where theres no evidence he can afford it on 
his own. 
 
Mr B says that he is in the position where he can make a substantial payment to reduce the 
borrowing in order to take the mortgage into his sole name. I cant see that he has discussed 
this with Nationwide yet. He should discuss this with Nationwide. Nationwide should then 
reconsider his application, this time thinking about whether it is in his best interests, even if it 
doesnt meet its current affordability criteria. And, taking into account the transitional 
mortgage regulations, if the balance is reduced, the monthly payments will go down, which 
might make it more likely that the change is clearly in Mr Bs best interests. 
 
It may be that once all of these options have been explored, Nationwide may be able to find 
a way to agree to Mr B and Ms Ss application. However, if this is unsuccessful and Mr B 
and Ms S remain unhappy, they may be able to refer the matter back to us. But at this stage, 
I think he needs to try to work with Nationwide again to see if agreement can be made. It 
may be useful if Nationwide were to give him a named contact who can help him with his 
application and is able to make the decisions required on his mortgage application. 
My final decision
Whilst I have considerable sympathy for Mr B and Ms S, my final decision is I dont uphold 
their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman