DRN-3332548
The complaint
Mr F says James Hay Administration Company Ltd, trading as James Hay Partnership 
(JHP), caused a delay in completing the setting up of a third-party (Selftrade) dealing 
account within his Individual Savings Account (ISA) in 2020, and therefore delayed his 
financial adviser in making specific pre-planned investments in the dealing account. He 
claimed compensation for financial loss in the delayed investments and, separately, for the 
trouble, upset and inconvenience caused by that and by JHPs delay (between June 2020 
and May 2021) in addressing his complaint. 
JHP disputes the complaint. It says it caused no delay to the setting up of the account and 
no delay to Mr Fs investments; that the account application was received on 4 February, a 
confusion in it was clarified on 7 February, on 10 February it wrote to Mr F and his adviser to 
confirm that the new ISA had been opened (and how he would be able to trade directly in the 
dealing account, when opened and funded, through JHPs online service), on 13 February it 
informed his adviser that the account had been opened and on 17 February it was funded 
(upon his advisers instruction); that the completion delay, which it did not cause and which 
did not affect Mr Fs investments, related only to establishing third-party authority for his 
adviser to deal in the account; and that it apologises for the delay in addressing his 
complaint but it has no responsibility for the compensation he claims.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He mainly found as follows:
He confirmed the same chronology of initial events that JHP referred to and, with 
regards to the third-party authorisation matter, he noted the following  on 7 April 
JHP says it learnt from Selftrade that an unsigned third-party authority form had been 
sent to Selftrade directly; it forwarded the form to Mr F on 16 April, received it back 
on 23 April and then forwarded the completed and signed form to Selftrade on 27 
April; Mr Fs adviser chased JHP on 11 May; on 12 May his adviser executed the 
investments in the account; his adviser complained, on his behalf, on 4 June and 
JHP responded on 11 May 2021 (after the matter had been referred to us).
The specific investments were made into Aviva, GSK and SSE.
The earliest the investments could have been made was 17 February, when the 
account was funded. They were made on 12 May but, overall, Mr F incurred no 
financial loss in making them on this date. Instead, he made a net gain by investing 
at the prices on 12 May as opposed to the prices on 17 February. The closing share 
price level for Aviva on 17 February was 412.80 and on 12 May it was cheaper at 
245.00; the closing level for GSK on 17 February was 1661.60 and on 12 May it was 
more expensive at 1707.00; and the closing level for SSE on 17 February was 
1525.00 and on 12 May it was cheaper at 1292.00.
Complaint handling is not a regulated activity, so this service cannot address Mr Fs 
claim for compensation for JHPs delay in addressing his complaint.
In the other matters  JHP wrote to the adviser on 10 February confirming the setting 
up of the ISA, the need for funding of the dealing account before trading can begin, 
the need for the third-party authorisation for the adviser and confirmation that Mr F 
could trade directly in the account; the adviser says it may not have received this 
communication; there is evidence that JHP sent it, so it cannot reasonably be 
responsible for any postal failure thereafter; it could have acted faster between 7 and 
16 April (in terms of forwarding the third-party authority form to Mr F after Selftrade 
highlighted the need for its resubmission) and between 27 April and 12 May (during 
which it received the completed form and had to be chased, on 11 May, by the 
adviser); but it did not take an unreasonably long period of time to act in each case, 
and it had given prior notice about Mr Fs ability to deal in the account directly; so 
overall it did not cause a meaningful delay in the matter.
Mr F disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He accepted 
that, overall, he incurred no financial loss in the investments but he said JHPs mishandling 
of his complaint remains a matter for which he should be compensated. He also said JHP 
could have pointed out to him, in 2020, that he had not suffered a financial loss and that had 
it done so, and had it apologised for the delay,  the matter could have been allowed to 
rest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction is set out in the regulators Handbook, within its Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
provisions. DISP 2.3.1 R says we can address only complaints about firms carrying out 
regulated activities (or ancillary activities connected to regulated activities). The Handbook 
also says a complaint is any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or 
not, from, or on behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial 
service, claims management service or a redress determination, which alleges that the 
complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or material 
inconvenience. On its own, complaint handling is not a regulated activity and it is not an 
ancillary activity connected to the conduct of a regulated activity. A complaint about 
complaint handling is also not a complaint, as defined by the Handbook, because it is not 
 about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, claims management 
service or a redress determination . 
In some cases, a complaint to a firm and its handling of that complaint might form a part of 
the core claim (about a regulated and/or ancillary activity) pursued by the complainant. An 
example could be where it is alleged that a mishandling of a complaint added to the 
substantive problem or partly delayed its resolution. In Mr Fs case, the matter he 
complained about  through his adviser in June 2020  had already been concluded (in May 
2020) prior to the complaint, so the complaint was isolated and not a part of the underlying 
issue. 
For the above reasons, I cannot address Mr Fs allegation that JHP mishandled his 
complaint (and his claim for compensation in this respect). There no longer appears to be a 
claim for financial loss in his case, given the investigators finding in this respect and given 
his acceptance of that finding  essentially that, overall and on a net basis, he did not incur a 
financial loss by making the specific investments on 12 May. The matter that remains is his 
claim for compensation for the trouble, upset and inconvenience caused by the timing of the 
investments.Between 4 and 13 February 2020 JHP received Mr Fs application for the account, it clarified 
some confusion that appeared to exist within the application, it confirmed to him and his 
adviser the setting up of his SIPP and it confirmed, to his adviser, the setting up of the 
dealing account. On balance, I do not consider that JHPs actions were unduly delayed 
during this period (a total of seven working days). 
The account was funded, upon the advisers instruction, on 17 February. This indicates that 
the adviser was aware, by this date, that the account had been set up and was available for 
funding  which is consistent with the notices JHP sent the adviser on 10 and 13 February. 
Both Mr F and the adviser were informed by JHP, on 10 February, that he (Mr F) would be 
able to place trades directly with Selftrade once the account was set up and funded, and that 
in order to do so all he had to do was visit JHPs website to register online for direct access 
to the dealing account. Notice that the account had been set up was given on 13 February 
and I have not seen evidence that JHP caused any delay in its funding between then and 17 
February.
I agree with the investigators findings that JHP could have acted faster during the two 
periods he identified (as noted above) but that this did not amount to a meaningful delay on 
its part. 
The key underlying matter is that Mr F sought to make the specific investments through the 
dealing account (in the ISA) that he was opening at the time. Any trouble, upset and 
inconvenience he experienced would have happened in this context. I do not say he was not 
troubled by what he probably viewed as a delay (in making the investments) at the time, but 
that does not automatically mean JHP is responsible for what he experienced. On balance, I 
do not consider that JHP was responsible for what he experienced. As I said above, 
available evidence is that, before the account was funded, JHP sent him and his adviser 
notice about his option to deal directly and how to do so. The implication arising from this is 
that he could have made the investments directly at any time on or after the account was 
funded on 17 February. The fact that this was not done was/is not JHPs fault, and the delay 
 up to 12 May  in making those investments was also remote to the third-party 
authorisation issue that arose in March.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not consider that JHP caused  or 
contributed (meaningfully enough to warrant compensation) to  any trouble, upset and/or 
inconvenience Mr F experienced in relation to when his investments were eventually made.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman