DRN-4060219
The complaint
Ms P complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money she lost in a 
scam.
What happened
Ms P is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Ms P throughout this decision. 
In October 2021 Ms P says that she did some research into cryptocurrency investing. Soon 
afterwards, Ms P received a call from someone who said he was from a company Ill refer to 
as G in this decision. Ms P was told that G was an established investment company that 
specialises in cryptocurrency. She then received an email from G with a link and recalls 
being able to see live trades on Gs website. 
The sign-up process didnt seem to be working properly and Ms P was advised to download 
a screen sharing app to get support. After reading through testimonials Ms P invested funds 
under the direction of an agent of G. Ms P could see her profits rise and this persuaded her 
to continue to invest. I have set out in the table below the payments Ms P made.
Date Amount Recipient
29/10/21 £220 1
04/12/21 £1,039.18 2
14/12/21 £735.78 2
15/12/21 £370.54 2
15/12/21 £361.92 2
16/12/21 £748.95 2
16/12/21 £364.81 2
Total £3,841.18
All payments were made by card and recipients one and two are two different cryptocurrency 
exchanges. I can see further payments to recipient two on Ms Ps bank statements, but 
these dont form part of the claim brought by her representative.
Ms P was then asked to invest more. She explained that she couldnt afford to pay more and 
asked to withdraw her funds. The withdrawal was delayed for various reasons and then Ms 
P started to experience difficulties in logging on to Gs platform. She realised she was the 
victim of a scam and contacted Santander in February 2022. Initially though, Ms P only 
reported the first transaction of £220. She later instructed a legal representative to complain 
to Santander about the other payments listed in the table above. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
that the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM 
Code) doesnt apply in this case because it doesnt cover card payments. He also felt that as 
Ms P received the service she expected from the cryptocurrency exchanges, chargeback 
wouldnt be successful. Finally, the investigator said there was no reason for Santander to 
flag the payments Ms P made given their value and her previous account history. 
Ms P didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, she said the payments were 
unusual and Santander should have intervened because:
- Previous higher value card transactions from her account were for university fees 
(which Ms P had previously paid). Aside from these payments she does not usually 
make payments for more than £300.
- The value of the transactions isnt the only consideration. The scam transactions 
nearly depleted the balance of the account when Ms P usually maintained a healthy 
balance. The fact she was using the majority of her funds to buy cryptocurrency 
ought to have concerned Santander.
- She received high value credits just before the scam transactions. 
- Santander should have been aware of the prevalence of cryptocurrency scams and 
noticed Ms P was using her account differently.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This was a cruel scam and Im sympathetic towards the situation Ms P finds herself in. But 
she isnt automatically entitled to a refund from her bank. 
Ive considered whether the payments Ms P made during the scam were so unusual or out 
of character that Santander ought reasonably to have intervened to establish whether she 
was at risk of financial harm. Having carefully considered the matter, I agree with the 
investigator that Santander acted fairly in processing Ms Ps payment requests. Its clear from a review of Ms Ps bank statements that shortly before the scam transactions 
she made card payments that exceeded those in the table above. On 12 August 2021 Ms P 
made two card payments  for £2,496 and £1,427.20. The highest value scam transaction 
was for £1,039.18, which is less than the smaller transaction on 12 August and significantly 
less than the larger one. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Santander ought 
reasonably to have had any concerns about Ms Ps payment requests. Ive also taken into 
consideration the fact that the scam transactions spanned almost a seven week period and 
didnt follow a usual pattern of scam transactions. 
Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Whilst banks have obligations 
to act in their customers best interests, they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
I appreciate that the reason for the payments in August 2021 was different to the scam 
payments, as was the payee, but Im not satisfied that there was enough going on that 
Santander ought reasonably to have done anything more. Its clear the scam transactions 
were unremarkable as they were in line with Ms Ps previous account history and all scam 
transactions were to a legitimate company. 
Ms P has referred to the fact Santander should have done more because the scam 
payments depleted the balance in her account. I accept that Ms Ps balance reduced over 
the period of the scam but none of the listed scam payments took her balance below £400. 
I also agree with the investigator that Ms P had no chargeback rights and in any event 
chargeback wouldnt be successful.
Overall, whilst Im very sorry Ms P has lost money in this cruel scam, I cant reasonably ask 
Santander to reimburse what she has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman