DRN-1825523
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that he was mis-sold a convertible whole of life policy (policy) by Aviva Life 
and Pensions UK Limited. 
He thought he could convert to the policy into an endowment assurance policy after 31 
years.  
 
What happened
Mr D was advised to take out the policy in January 1988, prior to the introduction of the 
Financial Services Act 1986 (FSA 1986) in April 1988. 
The policy built up a value of around £42,000, which Mr D thought he could later convert into 
an endowment policy, but when he tried to he was told he couldnt. But after he complained, 
Aviva agreed to allow him to convert £12,562 into an endowment policy.  
 Aviva hasnt upheld the complaint. In summary, it says. 
At the point of sale there was no obligation to document or evidence the reasons for 
recommending a policy. But the adviser was still required to act with due skill and 
honesty. 
None of the documentation provided stated that that the sum assured is guaranteed 
to stay the same, at the same premium. 
In the Illustration, under the conversion section, it says that its possible to pay the 
same guaranteed amount but only if the customer was to pay an increased premium. 
If Mr D wanted to convert his policy and retain the same guaranteed sum assured, 
then he wouldve been required to increase his premiums.
Overall its unable to say that Mr D received misleading information at the point of 
sale. 
In relation to a misunderstanding it had with Mr D, it offered him £150 compensation 
for any distress and inconvenience caused.
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Because the policy was sold in January 1988, prior to the introduction of the FSA 
1986, the regulations were different and arguably offered less protection. 
Nevertheless, she has to apply the rules as they were in 1988, and not as they are 
now.
The adviser back then wasnt obliged to formally record the reasons for 
recommending the policy. And 30 years on, there isnt much information available 
from the time. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, in the circumstances shes 
unable to say the policy was mis-sold.
The policy documentation provided made reasonably clear the nature and operation 
of the policy, including how it could be converted if thats what Mr D wanted to do. 
The documentation also made clear that in order to maintain the sum assured the 
premium would have to be increased.  
Avivas offer  dated 28 February 2018  to allow an amount to be converted into an 
endowment policy was reasonable in the circumstances. It provided a level of cover 
matching the monthly premiums, which is in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Aviva paid £150 compensation for trouble and upset caused for some initial 
misunderstanding which Mr D has accepted and therefore she wont be looking into 
any further. 
 
Mr D disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In summary, he made the following points:
He purchased the policy on the understanding that he could convert the money built 
up into an endowment plan after the agreed term, which isnt the case.
The policys been bought out by various companies over the years and has changed.
If hed been advised correctly he wouldve cancelled the policy years ago as he has a 
few life insurance policies. 
The endowment policy was going to be used to enhance his pension pot and lined up 
with his pension start date  i.e. convert this life insurance at 50 with a maturity date 
at 60 years. Now he feels he has to rethink his retirement date. 
 
 As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr D says Im unable to 
safely conclude that the policy was mis-sold.  
Because Mr D took out this policy in January 1988, before the FSA 1986 came into force in 
April 1988, there were different requirements when giving advice. The common law duty to 
act with reasonable skill and care when making a recommendation applied, rather than the 
suitability requirement which applied afterwards. Therefore I have to consider this complaint 
in relation to the rules and regulations as they were in 1988.
At the time Aviva wasnt required to retain detailed paperwork about any conversations that 
took place. Therefore its understandable that there may not be documentation to show what 
specific advice was given. Crucially, I note Aviva wasnt required to complete a fact find 
document (or a suitable alternative to know your customer), recording Mr Ds personal and 
financial circumstances or issue a suitability letter, detailing why the recommendation was 
made.Notwithstanding the above, in the circumstances, on balance I dont think the plan was 
inappropriate at the time as it was what Mr D wanted. At the point of sale, it only needed to 
be a reasonable degree of fit and I think it was based on the limited information available. 
Im broadly satisfied that Mr D was supplied with documentation that in my view was clear, 
fair and not misleading. It made reasonably clear the nature and operation of the policy.
I note Aviva said that initially the option to convert Mr Ds policy to an endowment on this 
type of policy wasnt a benefit option and so when he was told the conversion wasnt 
available this was technically correct. However, having seen a copy of the Illustration 
document  supplied by Mr D  it accepts that the conversion was an option after 31 years, 
so its agreed to convert the policy to a 10-year endowment policy, so I cant agree that it 
hasnt allowed him to convert the whole of life policy. 
I note it paid Mr D £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
misunderstanding  which hes accepted  but this misunderstanding still doesnt mean the 
policy was mis-sold in 1988.
Im mindful that Mr D says the policy has been brought out by several companies over the 
years, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that the policy has been changed as a result. Despite 
what Mr D says, I agree with the investigator that no unconditional guarantees were given, 
and that he could only guarantee his sum assured if he paid higher premiums. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that Mr D was mis-sold the 
extendable whole of life policy or was given misleading information at the point of sale. I 
appreciate he has a number of life policies and wouldve cancelled this policy a long time 
ago but that doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold or inappropriate in January 1988 when his 
circumstances were likely to have been different.  
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman