DRN-2768313
The complaint
Mr K complains Metro Bank PLC failed to properly investigate and refund payments made at 
various casinos and closed his accounts unfairly. He believes he is the victim of a complex
fraud. He wants the payments refunded and compensation for the service he received. He
feels he was treated poorly and subjected to discrimination.
My role
Mr K held accounts with Metro. He sometimes used the money in his accounts to fund bets
placed at land-based casinos. This decision regards only these payments. Mr K has another
complaint against Metro regarding other payments he made, which isnt the subject matter of
this decision. He also has other complaints against other firms with our service which this
decision doesnt regard.
Our service is not set up to investigate whether a crime has been committed against Mr K.
We have no powers to compel testimony or information from third parties, unlike the police
or courts of law. I understand Mr K has reported his concerns to the police and may be
dissatisfied with the response he received. But it is not my role to step into the polices shoes
to investigate what Mr K says is happening to him in a broad sense.
My role as an ombudsman is more limited. It is to decide whether Metros decision not to
refund Mr K the payments he made at various casinos which debited his Metro accounts
was fair. It is also to decide whether Metro treated him fairly in relation to the service he
received.
What happened?
I have read everything Mr K submitted in support of his complaint and have listened to
everything he has said. But I find it unnecessary to detail every point he has made in
this decision.
Mr K has made extensive submissions about being the victim of a complex fraud. Its his
earnest belief that his home has been broken into several times, and personal information
has been stolen which has enabled large scale identity fraud to be perpetrated against him.
At times, he has also said devices have been implanted on his person which further enabled
the fraudsters to do what they did.
Mr K believes he lost bets placed at casinos as a result of the fraud. He says many of the
losing bets related to payments the casinos recorded under a card scheme not associated
with Metro or the various Metro debit cards he used. He believes he unwittingly used cloned
or falsified cards rather than the genuine cards Metro issued, so the payments made using
those cards should be refunded. He feels the incorrect or missing data the casinos hold
supports the premise that duplicate accounts have been created in his name by fraudsters.
Mr K raised his concerns with Metro. He says Metro should have raised chargebacks for the
payments. Metro, however, refused to raise chargebacks because they were made out of
time, and because Mr K made the payments willingly. It was for Metro to decide whether to 
raise chargebacks and not Mr K.
Metro decided to close Mr Ks accounts and gave him notice under the accounts terms and
conditions. Mr K also complained about this, but Metro responded and said it was able to
close the accounts.
An investigator at our service considered Mr Ks complaint against Metro in relation to the
casino payments. They didnt uphold his complaint. In summary, they found:
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Metro is generally liable to refund 
payments to which Mr K didnt consent. Its not disputed that Mr K placed the bets at 
the casinos. And, for the purposes of the PSRs, this qualified as consent, so Metro 
are not liable to refund the payments under the regulations.
Metro werent responsible for how the casinos recorded the payments. What was 
clear was that the casinos recorded payments Mr K wanted to make, the correct last 
4 digits of Mr Ks cards were recorded, and accurate amounts debited Mr Ks Metro 
accounts.
Metro could close Mr Ks accounts. It didnt have to keep him as a customer. One 
account closed a little after the notice period expired, but this wasnt a reason to 
uphold his complaint or pay him compensation.
Listening to the calls Mr K had with Metro employees, there wasnt a specific call 
where an employee was rude to Mr K. But there were times where both Mr K and the 
Metro employee could have handled the call better. This wasnt a reason to uphold 
the complaint.
Mr K revealed he has a disability to our service. He didnt reveal his disability to 
Metro. But there wasnt any evidence to show Mr K was discriminated against or 
treated unfairly.
Mr K rejected the investigators findings. He asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, 
so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K will be very disappointed by what I have to say, but I am not upholding his complaint. Ill
explain why:
Metros liability to Mr K in relation to the payments he disputes is predominantly 
defined by the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 (for payments made before 12 January 2018). Both sets of 
regulations generally require Metro to refund payments Mr K didnt consent to.
Its important to clarify that consent here doesnt mean informed consent. Rather it 
simply means whether as a matter of fact Mr K agreed to put through a payment. So, under the regulations Metro is not liable for the actions of third parties who might 
have taken payments from Mr K under false pretences. In other words, Metro is not 
liable simply because Mr K may have fallen victim to criminals. Instead, that liability 
rests with the persons he believes committed criminal acts against him.
Mr K placed bets in casinos. His transaction history bears this out. He says many of 
the payments he made were recorded by the casinos as processed under a card 
scheme which wasnt for his genuine cards. And, although he made these payments, 
he believes the erroneous data evidences him being tricked into using falsified or 
cloned cards. He thinks this supports his conclusions that duplicate accounts are 
being set up in his name and that he would lose any resulting bets he placed 
following the payments.
Mr Ks allegations of loss hinge on whether he is in fact the victim of a complex, 
multi-party and ongoing fraud which has impacted him beyond his complaint against 
Metro. But without independent and objective evidence such as from a police 
investigation, or a court ruling which supports what Mr K has said, I cannot fairly 
conclude his cards were cloned or that the casinos ensured he lost his bets. Its 
simply not our services role to investigate whether Mr K is a victim of an intricate 
crime. And neither could Metro investigate whether a crime was committed to the 
extent the police can.
I dont doubt Mr K believes what hes said. But I havent seen independent objective 
evidence to conclude the payments were put through by the casinos in such a way 
so as to defraud him. And even if I were to believe Mr Ks genuine cards were 
somehow replaced with falsified or cloned cards on multiple occasions, this still 
doesnt explain how fraudsters would subsequently ensure he lost the bets he went 
on to place.
Mr Ks assertions rely heavily on the casinos records, some of which show a card 
scheme not applicable to his Metro cards. He also highlighted records where the card 
scheme provider data was missing. But missing card scheme data or errors in that 
data dont lead me to conclude the payments were fraudulent. Neither do I find the 
data shows Mr K was tricked into using a cloned or falsified card.
There are other interpretations of the data which would not implicate the casinos in 
fraud or show his cards were cloned/falsified. Indeed, when compared to those 
scenarios, Mr Ks perception of what happened seems unlikely.
Its much more likely that the casinos records represent administrative or system 
errors in how some Metro card payments were recorded. It is quite a jump to 
conclude they evidence the use of cloned or falsified cards or the existence of 
duplicate accounts. I say this because our service has yet to come across a 
complaint where we believe a fraudster has successfully cloned the chip in a card in 
order to make successful chip and PIN payments. And, I havent seen Metro held any 
non-genuine accounts in Mr Ks name or that any other Metro account was credited 
or debited when Mr K made the payments.
Neither do I find the different ways Mr Ks name was recorded or different account 
branch opening information evidences card fraud. This could simply be down to 
casinos having incorrect or out of date Metro branch data and Mr Ks name being 
inputted differently at different times.
The payments Mr K highlighted were debited from his Metro accounts and were 
recorded against the card numbers associated with the cards he held at the time. So, even accounting for the casinos holding incorrect or missing data, its likely the 
payments were processed correctly by Metro. Metro was presented with requests 
from Mr K for payments to debit his accounts and it acted according to its general 
duty to obey its customers mandate. I dont find a failing on its part here.
Metro wasnt obliged to raise chargebacks for the payments in question under the 
relevant card scheme rules. And Im satisfied its decision not to raise chargebacks 
was reasonable on the basis that I doubt the claims would have succeeded.
If Metro had raised chargebacks, its likely the casinos would have made the same 
representations they made to Mr K directly  that they took valid payments. I dont 
find incorrect or missing card scheme data is enough to reasonably conclude the 
casinos didnt provide Mr K with the service(s) he paid for because of fraud.
Ive listened to the phone conversations Mr K had with various Metro employees. And 
I acknowledge that the way people feel is very subjective. So, I do not disbelieve    
Mr K feels he was treated poorly. But on balance I dont find he received a poor 
service which would justify compensation, or that he was treated unfairly overall. 
Instead, I find the Metro staff to whom he spoke tried their best to explain why his 
claims had been rejected.
Mr K was unhappy with Metros investigation. But I disagree Metro needed to do 
anything more. Mr K made payments and Metros records show the payments 
debited his accounts using cards with the correct card numbers, which were 
authenticated via chip and PIN. Im more than satisfied it was reasonable for Metro to 
turn down his claims and reject his complaint on this basis.
Mr K feels he was discriminated against by Metro. Again, I have no reason to doubt 
he felt this way. But I dont find he was treated differently or to his detriment because 
of a protected characteristic he holds. Neither do I find Metro ought to have treated 
him any differently when deciding to close his accounts, or that its basis for closing
the accounts related to Mr Ks disability.
Metro gave enough notice under the terms of Mr Ks accounts to afford Mr K enough 
time to open alternative accounts elsewhere if he wished to do so. I dont see how 
closing one of his accounts after the notice period caused him loss. So, I am not 
going to direct Metro to pay him compensation because of the extra time that account 
was open.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given above, I have decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman