DRN-4403343
The complaint
This complaints about a Halifax-branded mortgage Ms R holds with Bank of Scotland plc 
(BOS). Ms R is unhappy that BOS removed a fixed rate product from the account when the 
joint borrower objected. She says BOS told her that couldnt happen.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms R and BOS. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent 
to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Ms R being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
The mortgage is held jointly with Ms Rs husband, from whom she is separated and going 
through divorce proceedings. Since their separation, Ms R has lived in the mortgaged 
property, and paid the monthly mortgage payments on her own. In September 2022, with 
variable interest rates rising, Ms R asked BOS whether she could have a lower rate that 
fixed her payments at a known level. 
BOS agreed to provide a fixed rate deal using its single signature policy, which came into 
force in December 2022. However, Ms Rs estranged husband then objected to the fixed 
rate deal being put in place. BOS wrote to Ms R to say it was withdrawing the product and 
reverting the mortgage to standard variable rate with effect from 1 March 2023.
Ms R complained, saying BOS had assured her even if her estranged husband objected, it 
would not cancel the fixed rate. BOS rejected the complaint, and when it came here, the 
investigator who looked into wasnt persuaded to recommend it be upheld. Ms R has asked 
for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That has included listening to recordings of Ms Rs phone conversations with BOS during 
September and October 2022 that led to the fixed rate being agreed. Having done, Ive 
reached the following conclusions.
At no time during the phone conversations Ive listened to, or in any of the emails exchanges 
Ive been provided with, did BOS say or imply that it would not withdraw the fixed rate in the 
event Ms Rs estranged husband objected to it. In the event Ms R has inferred that, Im not 
persuaded it was as a result of anything BOS said or wrote. BOS, in my view, made it more 
than amply clear that the fixed rate could be withdrawn if Ms Rs estranged husband were to 
object to it.
During the appeal process that followed Ms Rs estranged husband objecting, BOS gave 
reasonable consideration to both parties points of view, as it was required to do. I note that 
during the phone conversation which led to the fixed rate being put in place, Ms R had 
answered no when asked if there had been any court order in the matrimonial proceedings 
up to that point. However, during the appeal process, BOS was provided with evidence of an 
interim court order from 2021 which, subject to finalisation of the divorce itself, was likely to 
require the mortgaged property be sold. 
Given the fixed rate  a five-year deal  came with an early repayment charge (the primary 
reason for Ms Rs estranged husbands objection) Im satisfied the appeal process reached a 
fair decision that the fixed rate should be withdrawn. I also think it likely, based on the 
business contemporaneous notes of the appeal, that if had been made aware of the terms 
of the interim order when speaking to Ms R in the autumn of 2022, BOS would, in all 
probability, not have invoked the single signature provision to facilitate the fixed rate in the 
first place.
If that had been the case, Ms R would not have received any benefit at all from the fixed rate 
product; as it was, she did receive it for three months, because BOS didnt back-date the 
cancellation.
I dont find that there was another type of mortgage product that BOS could have provided 
that might have survived an objection from Ms Rs estranged husband. Because of the 
interim court order requiring the sale of the mortgaged property once the divorce was 
finalised, the sticking point was always going to be the early repayment charge that is a 
standard feature of almost all fixed rate mortgage products. 
The only other type of interest rate product that might have produced a lower rate would 
have been a tracker product. Tracker products dont generally come with an early repayment 
charge, but equally they dont provide the monthly cost stability Ms R was seeking.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from her submissions how important this is to Ms R. Thats a natural 
reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as she is here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman