DRN-3216335
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly) didnt 
take into account a special bonus when calculating the maturity value on his with profits 
endowment policy.
What happened
Mr Bs father held a with profits endowment policy in which Mr B was the beneficiary. The 
policy was with a company that has since been acquired by Scottish Friendly. As Scottish 
Friendly have taken on responsibility for the policy, I will refer only to them in my decision. 
When the policy approached maturity in 1994, Mr Bs father was given two options and 
chose option two. This enabled Mr B to take out a new policy and have the bonuses from his 
fathers policy added as a special supplement to the sum assured. Scottish Friendly sent an 
illustration of potential benefits of option two to Mr Bs father in November 1994. 
In May 1995 Mr B started the new policy. Later the same year Scottish Friendly asked Mr B 
to return the policy as it had been set-up incorrectly. And, in November 1995 Scottish 
Friendly issued an amended policy schedule showing the sum assured as £562, the annual 
premium and a special premium of £1,805.31. Mr B later queried the sum assured several 
times with Scottish Friendly as he believed the sum assured shouldve been £4,678. And, in 
November 2001 Scottish Friendly explained the sum assured was £562 and that a special 
premium of £1,805.31 had been used to purchase a supplement to the sum insured of 
£4,116.00.
When Mr Bs policy matured in 2020, he complained to Scottish Friendly that the maturity 
value didnt reflect the initial sum assured of £4,678. Scottish Friendly didnt uphold the crux 
of Mr Bs complaint and provided details of how the bonuses had been applied. They also 
referred to their November 2001 letter in which theyd explained the reversionary bonus was 
added to the life sum insured and not the sum assured. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the response from Scottish Friendly and brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. After initially declining to provide the Financial Ombudsman 
Service with consent to consider the complaint, Scottish Friendly provided consent during 
the investigation.
One of our Investigators looked into things for Mr B thought that Scottish Friendly hadnt 
done anything significantly wrong. Mr B didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an 
Ombudsman decides his complaint. The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my final decision, I should clarify that I will only be addressing the merits of 
the complaint as Scottish Friendly have now provided consent for the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to consider the complaint. So, although the Investigator detailed her view on this 
matter, there is no requirement for me to consider this further. 
I have some empathy with Mr B in relation to the documents Scottish Friendly sent to him 
through 1995 to 2001. And, I understand Mr B will be disappointed with my final decision. 
But I will now explain why Ive decided not to uphold the crux of his complaint.  
Mr Bs complaint is that Scottish Friendly told him the sum assured of the policy was £4,678, 
and that they shouldve calculated the maturity value of his policy using this sum assured. 
Ive seen the initial illustration Scottish Friendly issued to Mr Bs father in 1994. This shows 
the sum assured was £562 and that this was secured from the annual premiums of the 
policy. It also shows that the maturity of the ceding policy (£1,805.31) would purchase a 
special supplement to the sum assured of £4,116. Whilst I dont consider the wording used 
was particularly clear, Im satisfied this wasnt an addition to the sum assured, it was a 
supplementary bonus. Indeed, in November 2001, this is what Scottish Friendly finally 
confirmed to Mr B. Ive looked at the explanation Scottish Friendly provided in 2001. It says, 
this policy was effected under a special option, the supplement to the sum insured was 
added from outset of the policy as a reversionary bonus which will be paid in full on maturity 
or prior death  together with the basic sum insured and all other declared bonuses.  
I appreciate Mr B was left confused by the various schedules hed received in 1995 and 
1996, but Im satisfied the new policy was in line with the option chosen. The illustration 
provided before the option was chosen showed the sum assured as £562 and the bonus 
secured from the proceeds of Mr Bs fathers policy was a separate element to the policy. I 
consider this illustration is key and it supports the maturity value of £1,805.31 was intended 
to be used to buy a reversionary bonus of £4,116 in Mr Bs policy and not simply added to 
the sum assured. 
When Scottish Friendly provided Mr B with an update on the performance of his policy in 
early 2001, he made several attempts to query the figures with them. But they did respond to 
Mr B in November 2001 with a reasonable explanation of why the special premium wasnt 
added to the sum assured. So, although Mr B has told me that he didnt receive any 
amendment to the schedule showing the sum assured as £4,678, I consider the letter of 
November 2001 made it clear that the sum assured had been an error on the schedule and it 
explained what had happened to the special premium.
It seems to me the confusion Scottish Friendly caused resulted from them mistakenly adding 
a reversionary bonus to the sum assured in some of the documents they issued in 1995 and 
1996. However, the reversionary bonus of £4,116 was only payable on maturity or death, 
and it seems the intention all along was to preserve the special premium by adding it to the 
life sum insured, rather than the basic sum assured. 
Ive noted Mr B has told us that he received the November 2001 letter explaining how the 
bonuses from his fathers policy had been applied to his policy. And, Ive also seen a copy of 
the illustration that supported this is how the policy worked. I appreciate Mr B was 
disappointed with the maturity value of his policy, but I dont consider Scottish Friendly either 
applied the bonus from his fathers policy incorrectly, or that they calculated the bonuses on 
his new policy using an incorrect sum assured. Scottish Friendly did make some mistakes 
between 1995 and 2001, but Ive seen theyd put these right in 2001 and provided an 
explanation and apology to Mr B.
Ive noted Scottish Friendly offered to pay Mr B the sum of £100 for the delay in responding 
to his letters and emails of complaint from 2020. Complaints about how a business dealt with 
a complaint are not within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service, so Im not 
able to comment any further on this. Of course, if Mr B hasnt accepted this remedy from Scottish Friendly, he may want to consider asking them if he is able to do so now Ive issued 
my final decision on the merits of his complaint that I can consider. 
My final decision
Ive decided that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited havent done anything 
significantly wrong.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman