DRN-3098248
The complaint
Mr D complains that Insurance Factory Limited (Insurance Factory) provided him with 
incorrect information about a claim resulting in his car insurance being cancelled.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr D took out a car insurance policy through Insurance Factory who are an 
insurance broker. He was involved in a minor collision with another car which was reported 
to Insurance Factory by the third party. Mr D then received a call from Insurance Factory 
advising him of the other drivers claim. Mr D told Insurance Factory that he was concerned 
the other driver was inflating his claim and they agreed to investigate.
Mr D then received no further contact from Insurance Factory. When Mr Ds policy was 
coming to an end he rang Insurance Factory and was told that there were no claims 
recorded against him and he was sent proof of his one years no claims discount. 
Mr D then took out insurance with another insurer. He did not declare any claims or incidents 
and informed them he had one years no claims discount. Around 6 months later Mr Ds new 
insurer became aware of the claim against Mr D. They contacted him and advised they were 
cancelling his insurance due to non-disclosure. Mr D then cancelled the insurance himself.
Mr D complained to Insurance Factory that he had been wrongly told he did not have any 
claims against him and that he had one years no claims discount. Insurance Factory 
accepted that he was provided with incorrect information and offered £250 compensation. 
They said however that Mr D should have declared the accident to his new insurer 
regardless of whether there was a claim made against him.
Mr D was not happy with this and complained to this service. He says that the incorrect 
information provided by Insurance Factory resulted in his new insurance being cancelled and 
he would like Insurance Factory to cover the cost of this. He says this caused him 
considerable stress and anxiety. He also says that as a result of the cancellation he could 
not afford new insurance and that his future no claims discount was affected. 
Our investigator looked into the matter and thought that the cancellation was a result of the 
incorrect information provided and that Insurance Factory should pay Mr D the cost of 
cancelling the policy. She also said that Insurance Factory should pay Mr D £350 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mr D did not think this was enough to reflect 
his loss, and as Insurance Factory did not reply the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr D has other complaints with this service arising out of this incident. I would 
like to make it clear that Im dealing solely with the complaint regarding incorrect information 
provided to Mr D by Insurance Factory.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Insurance Factory incorrectly told Mr D that 
there were no claims recorded against him and that he had one years no claims discount. 
The area of dispute is how Mr D has lost out as a result and how Insurance Factory should 
put this right. 
Mr D says that his new insurance policy was cancelled because he had not told his new 
insurer about the claim made against him. When customers apply for insurance they will 
usually be asked if they have had any accidents or claims. This is because a drivers history 
of accidents, incidents and claims, fault or non-fault, will affect whether they are offered 
insurance, and the premium payable. Mr D knew that a claim had been made as he was told 
this by Insurance Factory in August 2018. However, as he received no further 
communication from Insurance Factory, he could not have been sure the claim went ahead, 
particularly after the concerns that he raised with them about the claim. Mr D then took what 
I think was reasonable action by telephoning Insurance Factory to check the position. He 
was then told he had no claims and sent confirmation of his no claims discount. I think it was 
reasonable for him to rely on this information when applying for his new insurance.
Mr D accepts that he was involved in an accident. Insurance Factory say that he should 
have declared this to his new insurer. I have not been provided with details of the exact 
questions asked of Mr D when he applied for his new insurance. However, even if Mr D 
declared that he had been involved in an accident he would still have provided incorrect 
information regarding the claim based on the information provided by Insurance Factory. I 
therefore think it likely that his insurance would have been cancelled in any event once his 
new insurer was made aware of the claim.
I am satisfied therefore that Insurance Factory should refund to Mr D the cost of cancelling 
his new policy. The cancellation fee was £66.72. 
Mr D says that since his policy was cancelled, he has had to change his vehicle in order to 
find insurance that he could afford and that this has cost him money. He has found himself in 
debt as a result. Whilst I understand that the cost of insurance may well have risen for Mr D, 
I think that this is likely to be due to the accident and claim, rather than the effect of the 
cancellation. Having an accident or claim, particularly one where fault is admitted, is always 
likely to affect the cost of insurance. I dont think that Insurance Factory can be held 
responsible for the increased cost of insurance or Mr Ds debt.
Mr D also says that he has lost out by not being able to build up his no claims discount. 
However, I dont think I can fairly say that Insurance Factory is responsible for this loss. Mr D 
had the option of taking out alternative insurance immediately his insurance was cancelled, 
and thereby building up a new no claims discount. I understand that Mr D says he found the 
cost prohibitive, but as I have explained above, I dont think this was a result of Insurance 
Factorys mistake. 
Mr Ds new insurer gave him the opportunity to cancel the policy himself rather than it being 
cancelled by them for non-disclosure. This avoided Mr D having the non-disclosure recorded 
on external databases, and thereby affecting his ability to get insurance in the future. I am 
satisfied, however, that the cancelation of the policy caused Mr D a lot of stress and anxiety. 
It also took him time and effort to sort things out following Insurance Factorys mistake. 
I think Mr D has been affected by the length of time that this matter has taken to resolve, and 
the uncertainty of what would happen. He has explained how distressing the whole process 
has been for him and that it has seriously affected his mental health. I dont underestimate 
the situation Mr D finds himself in, but I can only award compensation for that which I can 
fairly say was a result of Insurance Factorys mistake. Compensation isnt intended to fine or 
punish a business but is a recognition of the emotional and practical impact that mistakes can have. Having considered all the information Mr D has provided, I agree with our 
investigator that an award of £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Insurance Factory Limited to:
1. pay Mr D the sum of £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
2. pay Mr D £66.72 for the cost of cancellation of his policy, plus interest at the rate of 
8% from the date of payment by Mr D to the date Insurance Factory Limited make 
the refund to him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman