DRN-3347743
The complaint
Mrs J complains Cofunds Limited, trading as Aegon, (Aegon) didnt take its charges 
correctly from her portfolio. She wants it to correct the error.
Mrs J has been helped in her complaint by her financial adviser. In my decision Ive referred 
to Mrs J when referring to things said or done by her or by her adviser on her behalf.
What happened
Mrs J held a portfolio with Aegon. Holdings within this were designated for different future 
uses  so the portfolio was divided into a number of different accounts or wrappers. There 
was also an ISA.
From what Aegon has sent us and told us, platform and adviser charges were initially taken 
from across all the accounts, but from December 2016 the adviser charge was taken from 
one account only. Following a 2018 migration, all the platform charges were also taken from 
this one account. Ill refer below to this account as the overcharged account.
Mrs J became concerned about the value of the overcharged account. 
Aegon and Mrs J agree the charges werent supposed to be taken from this one account in 
this way. Also Aegon accepts this was as a result of its error and it has said it corrected in 
2020 how the charges were being taken. But it didnt amend the account values to correct 
the results of the charges having been taken incorrectly up to that point. 
Aegon told Mrs J it would make these amendments and began work on doing so. It told her 
that to put this right it would first need to move funds from the other accounts onto the 
overcharged account  and it would need her permission to do this. It said it would then 
carry out a price comparison to ensure Mrs J was not disadvantaged.
In August 2020 Aegon proposed moving over £550 from other accounts to the overcharged 
account. Mrs J agreed. Changes were made but Mrs J thought the revised value for the 
overcharged account was still too low. Aegon did not agree at first but agreed to look again. 
In November 2020 Aegon told Mrs J the change it had carried out had corrected the position 
for the period from the 2018 migration date but not before. It said it was unable to see earlier 
transactions on its system, but it could look into this earlier period for Mrs J and do the same 
calculations going back to the start of the account if she wanted. Mrs J said she did want it.
In January 2021 Aegon proposed moving almost £900 to the overcharged account from 
other accounts  to correct the position from the start if Mrs J wanted. It said it would then 
look at requesting a price comparison on the accounts. Aegon repeated its proposal in later 
correspondence, including its final response letter. It said it needed Mrs Js permission for 
the changes because they involved selling from the accounts. Mrs J on her complaint form 
told us these January proposals had been agreed.
Mrs J had also asked Aegon to pay something for the worry caused by the error and the time 
taken to deal with it. Aegon offered her £450 and has told us it shouldve paid this to Mrs J 
but failed to do so. It has also told us the amendments for the period after the 2018 migration 
were completed only insofar as the charges had been moved to the correct account, but the 
investments hadnt been rebalanced which is something it shouldve done after Mrs J agreed 
to it in August 2020.
But after a further review, Aegon told us it didnt think it should put things right for the period 
before the 2018 migration in the way it had offered and like it had done (or offered to do and 
done in part) for the later period. Its reason was that statements had been sent over the 
years detailing the charges, so Mrs J or her adviser shouldve noticed the error and couldve 
flagged it - and so they should share some responsibility. Aegon said it wasnt reasonable for 
it to carry sole responsibility for putting right what had happened over so many years.
Our investigator thought Aegon should put right all the errors because, in essence, Aegon 
was the cause of the errors and could equally have spotted them. Our investigator also 
thought Aegon should pay Mrs J more for the distress and inconvenience caused in light of 
the time Aegon had taken to identify the problem and its delay in putting it right.
But Aegon didnt agree that it should put things right for the period before the migration. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that charges were made incorrectly or that an error on Aegons part was 
most likely the reason for this. For this reason, Aegon has agreed to take steps to address 
the problem. I think that is appropriate.
But Im not persuaded that there is a reason in principle to treat things before and after the 
migration differently in the way Aegon has suggested.
Aegon says the error started at the end of 2016. So when the migration took place in 2018, 
the error had been ongoing for only one complete year. And Aegon hasnt said Mrs J ought 
to have spotted the error straightaway  and I think thats right. 
So I dont agree that Mrs J acted unreasonably by failing to spot and take steps to mitigate 
the impact of the error in the period before the migration. It follows that I think Aegon ought 
to stand by its offer to put things right for that earlier period. 
Id add that the impact of the error wont have been as noticeable at first as it was later when 
the cumulative effect had much reduced the overcharged accounts value. Also, Aegon says 
the error was worse after migration because platform charges also went wrong at that point.
Turning to the period after the 2018 migration, the error wasnt spotted until Mrs Js adviser 
spotted it around two years after the migration. I have some sympathy with Aegons view 
that it mightve been spotted earlier. Im also mindful that there may be good reasons why it 
wasnt. But I dont think I need to explore this further to reach a fair conclusion here.
I say this because in the course of this complaint Aegon told Mrs J it would correct things. It offered to do so and asked her permission to make the necessary changes to her account. It 
said it would then also carry out a price comparison to ensure she was not disadvantaged. 
Mrs J accepted that offer and gave permission for the changes to be made. I gather the 
sums were then in fact moved by Aegon  in any case, Aegon told Mrs J it had moved them. 
The charges Mrs J agreed to have moved werent all the incorrect charges  but they did 
cover the period after the migration. In these circumstances I still think it fair and reasonable 
for Aegon to now correct the position for the period after the migration, even if Aegon is right 
that Mrs J ought to have spotted the error a bit earlier than she did. 
In saying this, I dont overlook that revisiting the earlier period - as Ive said Aegon should - 
may now impact on the changes needed to correct the later position. I also dont overlook 
that Aegon did not in fact do all it had promised in relation to the later period  it has told us it 
didnt rebalance the accounts  but I dont think that failing makes it any more reasonable or 
fair for Aegon to not correct things now.
So I think it fair and reasonable that Aegon puts things right.
Mrs J has told us the erosion of the overcharged accounts value created anxiety  and 
Aegon added to the worry by not delivering on its promises to put things right. Im persuaded 
Mrs J did suffer some worry as well as inconvenience as a result of the charges being taken 
incorrectly and due to Aegons errors. Taking everything into account, I think the £450 Aegon 
offered Mrs J is sufficient and fair and reasonable compensation for this. I note Aegon didnt 
pay this earlier when it should have, but I still think this amount and not a higher one is fair in 
all the circumstances of this complaint, having regard to our general approach. 
Putting things right
Aegon should revisit the charges from when they first went wrong and offer to amend the 
accounts to restore Mrs Js position to how it wouldve been if charges had been debited 
correctly, rather than incorrectly and disproportionately from one account. 
Aegon should ask for Mrs Js agreement to have funds moved between accounts. If Mrs J 
agrees to this, Aegon should amend the accounts and do a price comparison and pay to 
make sure Mrs J isnt disadvantaged and the value of her portfolio is no less than it wouldve 
been if the charging errors hadnt happened. If Mrs J doesnt agree to funds moving between 
accounts, Aegon wouldnt need to amend or make good the value of the accounts. Mrs J 
should note that funds moved out of her ISA would no longer receive ISA treatment.
Regardless of whether the accounts are amended or not, Aegon should pay Mrs J £450 for 
the inconvenience and worry caused by its errors.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of what Ive said above, I uphold Mrs Js complaint 
and order Cofunds Limited, trading as Aegon, to put things right in the way Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman