DRN-3370164
The complaint
Miss T complained that her claim was unfairly declined under her home insurance policy with 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral). Miss T was represented by a relative 
during the complaint, but for ease and to keep my decision clear, I will only refer to Miss T.
What happened
Miss T said there was a sudden and unexpected collapse / landslip of part of her garden 
wall. Miss T said it was a high retaining wall and a substantial amount of wall stones and soil 
slipped into the roadway, partially blocking it. Miss T said she liaised with Admiral and 
commissioned a local contractor, who after speaking to the local authority, carried out some 
initial work to safeguard the highway. Miss T said this cost was over £7,000 for temporary 
reinforcement works and for traffic management, and an ongoing weekly cost of £200 + 
VAT. Miss T said she didnt receive the full policy document when taking it out or at the 
subsequent renewal dates.
Miss T made a claim on her policy and Admiral sent out an engineer to visually inspect the 
damage. In addition, Admiral appointed a structural engineer to inspect the property to 
provide a second opinion. Based on their reports, Admiral decided to decline the claim as it 
said the wall had deteriorated gradually over time, so was not covered by the policy. It said 
there were no adverse weather conditions at the time of the loss.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Admiral had been fair in 
declining the claim as he didnt think what Miss T was claiming for was covered by the 
policy. Miss T disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 14 February 2022. I said:
I considered what Miss T said about not receiving the full policy document. She said she 
didnt have internet access, or a computer so was unable to review the policy online. She 
said if shed had this opportunity its likely she wouldve realised the policy wasnt suitable for 
her. Ive reviewed the notes that Admiral made, and it shows the policy was sent to Miss T 
by post when she first took out the policy and subsequent updates were sent out on the 
policy renewals. I dont have any evidence of Miss T not receiving the policy, so I cant say 
Admiral has been unreasonable. I think if Miss T hadnt received the policy and this had 
been important to her, I think she wouldve raised this with Admiral earlier. So, Im not 
persuaded that Miss T didnt have opportunity to review the policy terms. 
Admiral reviewed the claim and concluded a storm hadnt caused the damage to the wall in 
Miss Ts garden, so I have first considered the complaint on this basis. When our service 
looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Admiral provided its policy definition of a storm. It states:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), or heavy rainfall at a rate of at least 
25mm per hour, or snow to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or hail of such severity that 
it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass
Admiral said [It] contacted our meteorological supplier, who provides information specific to 
the postcode using remote data, and they have confirmed there were no storm conditions in 
the 2 weeks prior to your loss. The following is the highest wind speeds and rainfall amounts 
recorded in the 2 weeks prior to the incident.
Maximum wind speeds, gust 45mph on 20/01/2021
Maximum rainfall, 23.9mm
Maximum rainfall per hour, 6.5mm between 20.00 and 21.00 all on 20/01/2021.
Our service has access to our own weather reports and resources, so Ive checked to see if I 
agree what Admiral has concluded is reasonable. I think it is. Our resources support what 
Admiral has said. Storm conditions werent reported in the area Miss T lives in the weeks 
leading up to the incident. 
Mrs T said there was heavy rain leading up to the incident. She had her own structural 
engineers report carried out, which included one conclusion that the collapse of the wall was 
due to ground water saturation over the recent period of prolonged rainfall. However, for 
Miss T to be able to claim on her policy, the rainfall needs to meet the definition of a storm in 
the policy. As it hasnt, I think Admiral has been fair in declining her storm claim. As storm 
conditions werent present, I wont be considering the final two questions.
Ive also considered the rest of Miss Ts policy to understand if there were other relevant 
areas of the policy she could claim under for her collapsed wall and subsequent costs she 
incurred for damage to the highway. I have considered flooding, but as I havent seen any 
evidence of flooding I dont think Admiral hasnt been unreasonable by not considering it. 
Miss T has indicated she thinks the claim should be covered under the policy section titled 
property owners liability. The clause states sums you or your family legally have to pay as 
owners of your home, for accidental loss of or damage to property. In other words, this 
would cover any third party costs that are incurred where as an owner of her property Miss T 
has caused damage to someone elses property  in this case, the public highway and 
surrounding area.
Miss T said in the circumstances the collapse of the wall impacted the public highway to a 
significant extent by blocking it with debris and making use of the highway unsafe
for vehicles and pedestrians due to the risk of further collapse. When the engineers [I] 
appointed contacted and liaised with the local authority they advised [I] was liable for the 
costs of managing the highway, they required traffic management in the form of
single file traffic controlled by traffic lights while the construction work took place and while 
the collapsed section was made safe.Admiral were asked to consider the claim in respect to the property owners liability. 
However, Admiral said the professional structural engineer it commissioned concluded the 
wall has deteriorated gradually over time, which meant the claim wasnt covered by the 
policy.
I have checked the terms and conditions and there is a general exclusion to the policy which 
means it applies to the whole policy. Therefore, if Admiral showed there was gradual 
deterioration then the general exclusion would apply, which means Admiral wouldnt need to 
consider the property owners liability clause. The exclusion clause is set out below.
10.Gradual causes
Any loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually including wear and tear, wet
and dry rot, damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions, due to 
settlement, or any due to mildew, rust, corrosion, birds, insects, woodworm, pests or vermin.
Based on its experts report, Admiral said the wall would not meet current construction 
standards, given the wall thickness to height ratio. There is no gravel backfill behind the 
retaining wall as would commonly be found in modern construction. This would allow the 
ground water to percolate through the gravel towards the weepholes, relieving hydrostatic 
pressure. There has been a removal of a number of smaller trees from the garden and a 
mature tree removed from the embankment, close to the area of collapse. Trees can absorb 
significant quantities of water. In their opinion the combination of the inadequacies of the wall 
construction and the removal of the large mature tree and smaller trees are likely to have 
contributed to the collapse.
I have read the report provided by Admirals expert and its consistent with what Admiral has 
said. The expert believes the wall was probably largely hidden from view, obscured by dense 
foliage and at the rear of the garden at the top of an embankment. It was likely the wall had 
been deteriorating for some time hidden from view.
However, Miss T provided evidence from her local contractor. She said this contradicted 
Admirals expert. Miss Ts local contractor looked specifically at Admirals conclusion that the 
wall collapsed due to age related wear and tear. The expert report stated the following 
conclusions:
this suggests the wall was not suffering from a lack of maintenance
there are visible signs of repointing works with the latest collaborative maintenance 
being undertaken approximately 5 years ago
as a property owner with little knowledge of civil engineering or construction 
standards the maintenance works undertaken during the period of ownership is 
reasonable
Ive considered both reports carefully and I find it difficult to decide one way or the other, as 
the reports are contradicting and both well written and pursuading in their own ways. 
However, for Admiral to apply the exclusion clause for gradual deterioation, it has to prove 
this is the most likely, most plausible conclusion. I dont think it has done, as I think both 
reports carry equal weight, so I dont have definitive evidence to say gradual deterioation 
was the main cause of the damage. Therefore, I dont think it has been fair in applying the 
exclusion clause. So, I have gone on to consider the claim for property owners liability.
I have considered the circumstances of this claim against the policy wording for property 
owners liability very carefully. It does look in this situation that either way it unfolds Miss T 
was likely to end up paying for the damage to the highway. I think Admiral is liable at an 
early stage even though we cant predict the outcome of a court ruling. The policy term 
relates to sums you legally have to pay and so Miss T has made a reasonable point that 
she was liable for the collapse of the wall on to the road. There doesnt appear to have been any notice served on her from the council, though it looks likely this would have followed had 
she not acted.
I dont think it would be fair to have expected Miss T to have refused to pay these costs for 
the highway to be cleared, traffic management and structural repairs carried out. Or 
potentially wait for the local authority to take legal action against Miss T, take her to court for 
a judgement and face the liability of the claim and significant court costs against her. I think 
in these circumstances, it is clear Miss T took responsibility and did the right thing after 
consulting her expert engineer and local authority.
I dont think Miss T should be disadvantaged or penalised under the policy. Therefore, I 
intend to uphold this complaint, I think the policy does cover Miss Ts claim in respect to the 
costs she incurred following the collapse of her wall and the impact this had on the highway. 
To be clear, Miss T wouldnt be covered for the repair or replacement of the wall as her 
storm claim was fairly declined, however, I think its reasonable she is covered for the costs 
she has incurred in respect to any public liabilities. I intend to require Admiral to settle the 
claim for the property owners liability claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions. 
As Miss T has been without this money, I think its fair that Admiral pay simple interest at 8% 
per annum on the claim amount from the date it initially declined the claim to the date it pays 
the settlement.
It is open to the parties to obtain a further report should they wish to, and I can ask the other 
party to consider it. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral didnt agree with my provisional decision.
Admiral said in order to determine if all the costs being claimed from the customer are part 
of the safeguarding relevant to the case, the report would need to be reviewed prior to a 
decision being made in order to ensure the costs are correct.
Admiral said, the cost entirely relates to the rebuild of our insureds wall and not the result of 
any damage to the council property. Admiral said it was the new wall being built that 
required safeguarding. Admiral then said I understand [the ombudsman] has mentioned the 
customer doing this has prevented costs or a claim from the council directly, we cannot 
comment on losses that havent taken place and it is the customers own duty
to ensure she mitigates her own losses.
Miss T accepted my provisional decision and she said she didnt have anything significant to 
add. Miss T wanted to reinforce her view and said Admiral when they sent their engineer to 
site, he declined to speak with [me] about the history of the wall. Had he done so several of 
the inaccuracies in Admirals report could have been avoided relating to the removal of trees 
which she played no part in and the maintenance that had taken place. As a result, [I] felt 
compelled to commission [my own] report to counter these inaccuracies which gave the 
impression [I] had been negligent.
Miss T provided invoices to evidence the costs she had incurred for emergency stabilisation 
and clearance works plus traffic management which totalled £12,932.25. She said she 
didnt include the invoices for rebuilding the wall (over £60,000) as she thought the findings 
were fair based on the history and evidence provided. Admiral didnt provide any comments 
on the costs provided by Miss T.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the responses and I have looked at this complaint again and I remain of 
the view Ive taken the correct approach on liability. As I set out in my provisional decision, it 
does look in this situation that either way it unfolds Miss T was likely to end up paying for the 
damage to the highway. I think Admiral is liable at an early stage even though we cant 
predict the outcome of a court ruling. The policy term relates to sums you legally have to 
pay and so Miss T has made a reasonable point that she was liable for the collapse of the 
wall on to the road. There doesnt appear to have been any notice served on her from the 
council, though it looks likely this would have followed had she not acted.
I think it was inevitable that Miss T would incur this liability and the policy shows Miss T is 
covered for sums you legally have to pay.
Admiral said The cost entirely relates to the rebuild of our insureds wall and not the result of 
any damage to the council property, but I think this completely ignores the point I made as 
to the danger the debris caused to the highway and its users. Admiral hasnt provided any 
comments on the invoices Miss T has shared which support the expert report commissioned 
by her.
The invoices that have been submitted provide evidence that the costs Miss T is claiming for 
is for emergency stabilisation and clearance works plus traffic management and not for the 
building of the wall as Admiral have argued. I think its fair these costs are covered by the 
policy as I have set out in my provisional decision. Therefore, I continue to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Settle Miss Ts claim for property owners liability to the value of £12,932.25 in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions, plus 8% simple interest per annum (from 
the date of the initial decision to decline the claim to the date the settlement is paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman