DRN-3437446
The complaint
Mr J complains that One Sure Insurance Limited mishandled a commercial vehicle
insurance policy.
Where I refer to One Sure, I include employees and others insofar as I hold One Sure
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mr J wanted to drive a van as a courier. One Sure acted as an intermediary between Mr J
and an insurance company. On 6 October 2021, Mr J took out a telematics or black box
policy. He was the policyholder. The total cost for a year was going to be £2,353.83. Mr J
paid £469.80 straight away and agreed to pay the balance by instalments.
The next day, Mr J or his son asked One Sure if Mr Js son could become the policyholder.
One Sure said that wasnt possible, so Mr J had to cancel the policy.
One Sures terms of business included the following:
Cancellation
If you find a cheaper quotation within 48 hours, subject to written proof being sent to
us; to show the quotation is on a like for like basis, you can cancel the policy with a
full refund.
Mr Js son told One Sure hed got a cheaper quotation.
One Sure applied some charges before refunding a balance as follows:
credits debits
Mr Js payment £469.80
Time on risk £ 12.33
Telematics charge £104.00
Loss of commission £199.74
Refund fee £    5.00
Sub-total £321.07
Refund £148.73
Mr J complained to One Sure about the charges.
One Sure offered to refund the loss of commission and the refund fee. But Mr J turned down
that offer. By a final response dated about 18 October 2021, One Sure withdrew that offer.
Mr J brought his complaint to us in late October 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. The investigator
didnt think that One Sures terms and conditions made it clear enough what would/wouldnt
be refunded. He thought that One Sure had caused Mr J additional distress and
inconvenience. The investigator recommended that One Sure should:
1. give Mr J a full refund minus the charge for the black box; and
2. award Mr J with £100.00 compensation.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J  
and to One Sure on 18 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct One Sure to make a further 
refund of the amounts it deducted as follows:
Time on risk £  12.33
Loss of commission £199.74
Refund fee £    5.00
Total £217.07
As Mr J will have been out of pocket since about 7 October 2021, I was minded to 
direct One Sure to add interest at our usual rate.
Unlike the investigator, I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct One 
Sure to pay Mr J compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr J or from One Sure, my provisional decision was 
to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct One Sure Insurance Limited to pay Mr J:
1. a further refund of £217.07; and
2. simple interest on that refund at a yearly rate of 8% from 7 October 2021 to the 
date of the refund. If One Sure considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its 
taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Mr J acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but didnt provide any further 
information.
One Sure didnt respond to the provisional decision.
So I see no reason to change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For any cancellation within the 14-day cooling-off period, a consumer can be charged:
a pro-rata (i.e. proportionate) premium for the time the policy was in force; andan administration fee which is proportionate to the service provided, with no element
of profit.
However, the consumer can only be charged an administration/cancellation fee if they were
told that this would happen while they were buying the policy. If the consumer wasnt told
about the charge for the service provided, the business isnt entitled to make the charge.
I find it likely that One Sure got Mr Js agreement to its terms of business before it set up the
policy. That included the term about cancelling within 48 hours, as set out above. But I
accept One Sures evidence that it told Mr J at the point of sale that he was paying £104.00
for a black box and it wouldnt be refundable.
I note that Mr Js statement of fact included a fault accident and a speeding offence.
Ive seen an exchange of emails on 7 October 2021 between Mr Js son and a competitor
intermediary. That included the following:
We are willing to offer a quotation of £2100 with a £750 excess with our underwriters
which are [named underwriter].
That doesnt contain any of the other details on which an insurer would usually base a quote.
The exchange of emails contains Mr Js request to the competitor for confirmation of a list of
such details.
But Mr Js son had said he wanted a policy in his name. So I dont think he intended to
accept the quotation from the competitor for a policy in Mr Js name. And his request to the
competitor didnt include confirmation of his fathers fault claim and speeding offence. So Im
not persuaded that the competitors quotation was like-for-like with the policy through One
Sure.
Therefore Im not persuaded that Mr J fell within the term about cancelling within 48 hours
with a full refund.
From its responses to the investigators opinion, I understand that One Sure is maintaining
the telematics charge but is no longer seeking to make charges for time on risk, loss of
commission or a refund fee.
In the context of a black box policy, Im satisfied that the charge of £104.00 was
proportionate to the service provided, with no element of profit. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct One Sure to make a further refund of that charge.
I dont under-estimate the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr J and his son.
However, Mr Js son wasnt the policyholder, so I cant direct compensation for him.
Mr J has fallen short of showing that he had got a like-for-like cheaper quotation within 48
hours. And I find it likely that much of his distress and inconvenience was caused by being
kept out of his money, for which interest is compensation. So, unlike the investigator, I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct One Sure to pay Mr J compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct One Sure to make a further refund of the amounts it 
deducted as follows:Time on risk £  12.33
Loss of commission £199.74
Refund fee £    5.00
Total £217.07
As Mr J will have been out of pocket since about 7 October 2021, I will direct One Sure to 
add interest at our usual rate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I
direct One Sure Insurance Limited to pay Mr J:
1. a further refund of £217.07; and
2. simple interest on that refund at a yearly rate of 8% from 7 October 2021 to the date 
of the refund. If One Sure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman