DRN-2872324
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the way Vitality Health Limited has administered their personal 
private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a personal private medical insurance policy in November 2015, 
following telephone discussions with Vitalitys representative. When they took out the policy, 
they paid a monthly premium of £142.52 and their policy attracted a 65% no claims discount 
(NCD). Their monthly premium increased to £164.83 at the 2016 renewal.
In 2017, Mr J made a physiotherapy claim for around £350, less the policy excess. At the 
following renewal, Vitality increased Mr and Mrs Js monthly premium to £256.08. Their NCD 
also reduced to 55% - a drop of two levels on Vitalitys NCD scale.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with their renewal price and the way Vitality had sold their 
policy. They said that at the time of sale, the representative had told them that any claims 
would only result in a drop of one level on the NCD scale  which would equal 5%. They also 
considered that the premium increase was disproportionate to the value of the claim Mr J 
had made.
Vitality acknowledged that it hadnt responded to Mr and Mrs Js pricing complaint in a timely 
way. It also listened to the sales call between Mr J and its representative and it accepted that 
Mr J had been wrongly told that a claim would only result in his NCD dropping by one level. 
So it re-calculated Mr and Mrs Js 2017-18 premium as if their NCD had dropped by one 
level (a loss of 5% discount). It worked out the monthly price wouldve been £227.65. So it 
refunded the difference between this amount and the monthly premiums Mr and Mrs J had 
actually paid. It also paid 8% interest on this amount between the date of premium payments 
and the date of refund. And it paid Mr and Mrs J £50 compensation to recognise the delay in 
handling the complaint.
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy with the way Vitality had administered their policy and they 
asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Js complaint should be partly upheld. She agreed that 
Vitalitys representative had wrongly answered clear questions about the way the NCD 
worked. So while she acknowledged that the policy explained how the NCD worked and that 
the premiums had been correctly charged from 2017 onwards, she felt the fair outcome 
would be for Vitality to recalculate all of the premiums Mr and Mrs J had paid since 2017, 
based on a monthly premium of £227.65  the price that wouldve applied if the NCD level 
had dropped by one. She also recommended that Vitality should pay interest of 8% simple 
on these amounts. She felt though that the compensation Vitality had already paid was fair.
Vitality accepted the investigators recommendations.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the investigators overall assessment. Mr J responded in detail, 
so Ive summarised his main points. He felt the outcome was an inexpensive resolution for 
Vitality given its numerous service failures. He considered the compensation was inadequate 
and unfair, given the complaint had been ongoing for a number of years and given his time. 
He felt that the policy had been mis-sold  if hed known about the way the policy worked, he 
wouldnt have taken it out. So he considered that all premiums ought to be refunded, 
together with an amount for his consequential losses.  Mr J also felt hed been locked-in to 
the policy while his complaint was being dealt with. He asked for an ombudsman to consider 
this complaint.
While the complaint was awaiting allocation to an ombudsman, Mr and Mrs J agreed to 
accept the re-calculated premium offer on a without-prejudice basis. Vitality therefore worked 
out what the premiums after 2017 wouldve been using £227.65 as a base price and taking 
into account its ABC strategy for calculating premiums which had come into effect at the 
2018 renewal. It refunded the overpayments Mr and Mrs J had paid, together with interest at 
8% simple. I understand Mr and Mrs J now feel unhappy with the settlement theyve 
received.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make the parameters of what this 
decision will address clear. I appreciate Mr and Mrs J also complained about the way Vitality 
handled a cancer claim Mr J made on this policy, as a result of separate incorrect 
information he was given at the time of the sale. Vitality objected to us considering that 
issue, as it stated it was made out of time. Another ombudsman has already issued a 
decision explaining that we have no power to consider Vitalitys handling of Mr Js cancer 
claim. That means my decision will only focus on the pricing of the policy and whether the 
compensation Vitality paid is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J, Ive decided that the settlement 
our investigator recommended is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs J that while Ive summarised the detailed background to 
their complaint and their responses to our investigator, Ive carefully considered all theyve 
said and sent us. In making my decision though, I havent commented on each and every 
point theyve made and neither am I required to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to 
be the key issues.
Theres no dispute that when Mr J discussed taking out the policy with Vitalitys 
representative back in 2015, he was given incorrect information about the NCD and the 
impact claims would have on it. Vitality acknowledges that Mr J was told that a claim would 
only lead to one drop on the NCD scale, in response to the clear question Mr J asked. 
However, this is at odds with the policy wording, which forms the basis of Mr and Mrs Js 
contract with Vitality. This includes a specific section called No Claims Discount Scale, 
which sets out how the NCD works. It states the following:
Whatever no-claims discount you first start with, It can change at each annual renewal date 
depending on whether or not you and your insured dependants have made any claims 
during the previous plan year So, at each annual renewal date your no-claims discount will 
either
move up one level if no claims have been made during the previous plan year, ormove down two levels for each claim made during the previous plan year.
The policy terms dont suggest that if a claim is low in value, then the impact on the NCD will 
be less than if the claim is high in value. They simply refer to each claim causing a reduction 
of two NCD levels. So even though Mr Js physiotherapy claim was for a small amount, 
contractually, Vitality was still entitled to reduce his NCD by two levels, which had a marked 
impact on the contractual price at renewal and each subsequent renewal.
With that said, Vitality accepted the investigators finding that Mr J was entitled to place more 
weight on the verbal word of its representative than by cross-checking the policy terms. And 
it was on this basis that it agreed to take the 2017-18 recalculated monthly price of £227.65 
as the monthly base price for the policy. This means the physiotherapy claim in 2017 only 
affected the renewal price by one step down the NCD scale across the life of the policy. This 
makes the representatives misrepresentation true on an ongoing basis.  I appreciate Mr J 
says that if hed known the true facts about the way the NCD worked, he wouldnt have 
taken the policy out. But it seems to me that by making the NCD misrepresentation true at 
each renewal following the physiotherapy claim, Vitality has now placed Mr and Mrs J in 
arguably a better position than they wouldve been in had they been given the right 
information at the time of sale. On this basis then, its difficult to see that theyve now lost out 
 especially because Vitality has paid them 8% simple interest on their overpaid premiums to 
represent the time they didnt have access to this money.
Id also add that its clear that Mr and Mrs J have benefitted from the policy, because theyve 
made claims which Vitality has settled. So I cant reasonably conclude that the policy wasnt 
right for Mr and Mrs J. And I cant fairly find that theyd be in any better or worse position if 
the representative had given them the right information and theyd gone on to take out a 
different policy.
Taking the above into account, I think Vitalitys offer is more than fair. While Mr and Mrs J 
say they wouldnt have taken out the policy and theyve been locked-in to it, I can see that 
Vitality has paid out over £11,000 in medical claims. I dont think I could fairly conclude that 
the policy has been of no benefit to them and it continues to offer Mr J cover for a condition 
which may well be excluded by other insurers if he were to look elsewhere. Ultimately 
though, this is an annually renewable contract and Mr and Mrs J have been free to seek 
alternative cover over the past four years if they were unhappy with the price Vitality offered 
them.
Vitality has provided me with a breakdown of the refund amount its paid to Mr and Mrs J. 
This takes into account the Age, Base, Claims pricing strategy Vitality adopted in 2018, 
replacing the old NCD model. The calculations its provided me show me that it has taken 
the base price of £227.65 as the starting point for each renewal since 2017 onwards. So Im 
satisfied its complied with the investigators recommendations. However, I havent 
considered the ABC elements of each re-calculated renewal premium as part of this 
decision. Thats because this is a separate issue to the impact of the NCD reduction which 
Mr and Mrs J complained about. Its open to Mr and Mrs J to make a new complaint to 
Vitality about the way its calculated their renewal prices post the NCD amendment taking 
into account the ABC elements should they wish to do so.
Ive then turned to consider the compensation Vitality has paid Mr and Mrs J. As the 
investigator explained, we cant punish or fine the businesses we cover. We consider 
whether an error by a financial business has caused a consumer material distress and 
inconvenience. In this case, I dont doubt that Vitalitys failure to look into Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint about the pricing of their policy has caused them some frustration, especially as 
Im conscious they had to chase it up. But given the steps Vitality has now taken to put the 
overarching mistake right, I think £50 is fair compensation to recognise the trouble and upset its delay in handling the complaint caused Mr and Mrs J. So Im not directing Vitality to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.  
Vitality Health Limited has now recalculated the amounts Mr and Mrs J wouldve paid for 
their policy following the 2017 claim if the NCD had only dropped by one level and refunded 
these to Mr and Mrs J. Its also added interest to these amounts, as requested by the 
investigator. Im satisfied this settlement is fair and reasonable.
Im also satisfied that £50 compensation Vitality has paid to Mr and Mrs J is fair in the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman