DRN-1691877
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to her alongside a mortgage in 1996. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax in this decision. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with that 
view and so the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below. 
There is very little documentary evidence before me. Thats not surprising given the PPI was 
set up over 20 years ago. I wouldnt expect either party to keep comprehensive records for 
such a long time. So, in making my decision, Ive applied the balance of probabilities. That 
means I have decided what is most likely to have happened based upon the evidence before 
me. 
Mrs B says she was oblivious to the PPI and did not know it had been sold to her. Looking at 
the electronic evidence thats available from the time and the start date of the policy, I think 
its most likely that PPI was added to Mrs Bs mortgage after the meeting she had to apply 
for the mortgage. Im going to treat that face to face meeting as the point of sale. 
As I said, Mrs B told us that PPI was added to her account without her consent. Its clear 
from her correspondence that this is her honest recollection about what happened. But I 
have considered Halifaxs computer records that are available from the time and I think there 
most likely was a conversation about PPI. I say this because Mrs B has answered some 
questions relating to the cover, such as her health status. I dont think Halifax would have 
been able to record that information without asking Mrs B about it. 
Moreover, I can see that the PPI payments would have appeared as a separate transaction 
on Mrs Bs mortgage statement. So whilst I appreciate that Mrs B now has no recollection of 
the PPI, I think she would have queried those transactions at the time if she had not agreed 
to take the cover. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest she did and so I cant say the PPI 
was added without her consent. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. That puts extra responsibility on Halifax because it then 
had to make sure the cover was suitable for Mrs Bs needs. To help me decide whether it 
was suitable, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions of the cover. And 
Ive also considered what Ive been told about Mrs Bs personal circumstances at the 
relevant time. 
If Mrs B had to make a claim on the PPI policy, her mortgage repayments would have been 
covered for up to 12 months if she was off sick or if she lost her job. I can see that when she 
filled out her PPI questionnaire, Mrs B told us that she had more than 12 months sick pay. 
However, I note that she had only been in that particular role for six months and such 
generous sick pay is considerably more than I would expect. In her correspondence to 
Halifax, she said that she would have received six months full pay and six months half pay. I 
have taken that to be her sick pay entitlement and so it follows that the PPI would have 
lasted for longer than Mrs Bs full sick pay. 
Mrs B also said that she had savings that were the equivalent of one years salary. I havent 
been provided with any documentary evidence that Mrs Bs savings were at such a level. But 
as I said above, I wouldnt expect the parties to be able to provide such documents after 
such a long time. In any event, even if Mrs Bs savings were the same as her annual salary, 
with PPI, she would have been able to put those means towards her other essential 
expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time if she was out of work.
 
Mrs B appears to have been in good health at the time PPI was sold, so I dont think she 
would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I 
havent seen anything else that was unusual about her circumstances that would have 
stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. 
I must stress that this mortgage was secured on Mrs Bs home. The consequences of her 
falling behind with her repayments were significant and could have resulted in her losing her 
home. The PPI cost £5.06 per month and I havent seen anything to suggest it was 
unaffordable. On balance, Im satisfied that the policy was suitable for Mrs Bs needs. 
Halifax also had to give Mrs B enough information about the cover so she could decide for 
herself whether it was right for her. I accept its possible that Halifax didnt tell Mrs B 
everything it should have done about the cover. But Ive set out above how PPI could have 
been helpful to Mrs B if she was out of work. I cant reasonably say she would have acted 
differently if shed been given more or better information about the cover. 
I realise Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons set out above, I 
cannot uphold this complaint. I dont need to tell Halifax to take any further action in respect 
of it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.  Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my 
decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman