DRN-3516534
The complaint
Ms M says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to her. She 
has requested that the interest and late payment charges she paid on the three catalogue 
accounts she had be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about three catalogue shopping accounts provided by J D Williams to Ms 
M. Account A was opened in February 2016 with Ms M being given an initial credit limit of 
£150. This limit was increased 10 times until it reached £3000 in December 2018. Account 
B was opened in August 2018 when Ms M was given an initial credit limit of £200. This limit 
was increased 7 times until it reached £3000 in December 2018. Account C was opened in 
July 2019 when Ms M was given an initial credit limit of £500. This limit was increased to 
£700 in December 2019. 
Ms M says she contacted J D Williams in November 2019 when she was experiencing 
difficulty with her accounts. 
Ms M says shes unhappy that J D Williams approved the opening of these three accounts 
given that she was experiencing financial difficulties. She also says she had to borrow 
money from elsewhere to maintain her account and also entered into a debt management 
plan. 
In my provisional decision dated 28 April 2022 I explained why, having received further 
information from Ms M, I differed from our adjudicators view to the extent that I thought 
the date for partially upholding Ms Ms complaint should be brought forward from 
December to March 2018. I set out an extract below:
J D Williams says that when Ms M opened each account, checks were carried out to see if 
there were signs of financial difficulty and this didnt lead to any affordability or risk concerns. 
Given what we know about Ms Ms financial situation at the time, I dont think there is 
enough to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for J D Williams to have approved 
the opening of Account A. I dont know if J D Williams asked Ms M about her income and 
committed expenditure, which is something that may have helped it begin to build a picture 
of Ms Ms overall financial circumstances. But from what Ive seen, even if it had, theres not 
enough for me to say that its opening wouldnt have been approved. 
Ms M sent us some of her bank statements after our adjudicator provided their view about 
her complaint. These have helped to give me an indication of her income and spending 
commitments in 2016 and 2017. Ive seen that Ms M was continuing to make payments of 
around £230 to an ongoing debt management plan. She had also taken out at least two 
short term loans in December 2017 and appears to have been making payments in 
respect of at least four other such loans. She was also obtaining regular transfers of funds 
from other individuals. 
Additionally, Ive kept in mind that in the time she was operating Account A up to March 
2018, when her credit limit was increased from £1750 to £2000, Ms M was making 
payments that were only slightly above the minimum that required. And in the four months 
leading up to that increase, I see that Ms M had considerably increased her level of 
indebtedness, increasing from £700 to £1700, or just under that figure.
Taking all this into consideration, I think its likely that by March 2018 J D Williams ought 
to have carried out proportionate checks that included verifying Ms Ms monthly income 
and establishing her level of committed expenditure by way of daily outgoings, living 
expenses and sums due to other lenders. Had it done so, I think it would have realised 
that offering her such a high level of credit was likely to be unaffordable or otherwise 
harmful to Ms M. I think that proportionate checks would likely have shown J D Williams 
that Ms M was in difficulty with managing Account A and that these difficulties continued 
after she was allowed to open Accounts B and C. I also think there was a significant risk 
that further increases to her credit limits could have led to her indebtedness increasing 
unsustainably, such that she had no funds available to meet her debts and regular 
outgoings. 
It follows that I currently think that Ms M lost out because J D Williams provided her with 
further credit from March 2018 onwards. 
Ive seen that both Ms M and J D Williams have acknowledged receiving my provisional 
decision and neither have anything further they want to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
wont be departing from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
partially upholding Ms Ms complaint, I have nothing further to add and I therefore intend to 
ask J D Williams to put things right on the basis Ive set out below. 
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Ms Ms accounts to ensure that from March 2018 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1750, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the 
fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Ms M to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Ms M has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file 
from March 2018 onwards for each account. 
ORIf the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms M, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. J D Williams should also remove any adverse information from Ms Ms 
credit file from March 2018 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Putting things right  what JD Williams needs to do
Rework Ms Ms accounts to ensure that from March 2018 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £1750, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the 
fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Ms M to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Ms M has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file 
from March 2018 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms M, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. J D Williams should also remove any adverse information from Ms Ms 
credit file from March 2018 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Ms Ms complaint. So J D Williams & 
Company Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman