DRN-3878630
The complaint
Mr M complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase delayed a payment he 
made and also complains about how his complaint was dealt with.
What happened
Mr M says he tried to make a payment to his wife in June 2022 that was delayed by Chase 
for 24 hours. He says Chase then dealt badly with him by closing his complaint before he 
could respond and that it didnt pay him the promised £20 compensation. Mr M says Chase 
ignored his proposals about this sort of issue and says it didnt tell him about changes to 
withdrawal amounts. He says he has been affected financially and mentally.
Chase accepts it took too long to process the payment and has apologised. It says it was 
made within a day and offered Mr M £20 compensation. Chase accepts that compensation 
payment wasnt made but says it has now been made.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator explained to Mr M that we couldnt 
look at complaints about complaint handling which part of this complaint was about. The 
investigator thought the delay wasnt significant and the withdrawal information was available 
via the Chase application(app).
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says his complaint is not about the delay but 
the poor service he experienced when he complained. He says he wasnt transferred to 
Chases correct department and made a follow up call to it. He also says any account 
changes must legally be brought to his attention and says his wife didnt receive the money 
on time. Mr M says the compensation wasnt paid at the time as promised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Chase has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by paying Mr M an appropriate compensation amount. I make clear to Mr M that 
complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so not something I can consider in this 
decision. I say that as I think large parts of this complaint are solely related to complaint 
handling.
There is no question that Chase didnt process Mr Ms payment to his wife as quickly as it 
should have. I can see that Chase has fairly apologised for the delay which I think was 
relatively short. The transaction was completed within about a day and Im satisfied that the 
compensation offer of £20 is fair and reasonable. I dont think that slight delay would have 
had a significant impact on Mr M and dont think he suffered any financial loss. I accept Mr M 
was caused inconvenience in contacting Chase but am satisfied the compensation payment 
fairly reflects that level of inconvenience.
I appreciate Mr M says this complaint is not about that delay, but I can also see he says his 
wife didnt receive the money on time, which of course is about the delay. So, in those 
circumstances I think the fairest approach to this complaint is to set out my decision about 
the delay and compensation for that reason.
I also appreciate Mr M says Chase didnt comply with its legal obligations to tell him about 
changes to the withdrawal limits. We are not a court and so its not our role to decide if a law 
has been breached as Mr M suggests. I am satisfied that the information is available to Mr M 
via his banking app and I have not seen any evidence of any impact this issue has caused 
him.
The remainder of Mr Ms complaints are about how Chase dealt with his complaint. I have 
made clear why I cant consider those parts of the complaint but appreciate Mr Ms 
frustration in not receiving his compensation until some months later and not being passed 
to the correct department during the webchat.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman