DRN-4276554
The complaint
Mr R complains that One Insurance Limited delayed repairing his car following a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to repair or replace his car and to compensate him 
for his trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mr Rs car was taken for repairs following an incident in February 2022. Parts were ordered 
in May 2022, but these were delayed. Mr R was unhappy that he wasnt immediately 
provided with a courtesy car. One Insurance offered Mr R £300 compensation, but he 
wanted his car repaired or to be provided with an alternative. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy 
provided for a courtesy car and so One Insurance should have arranged one. He thought it 
should compensate Mr R £10 a day for the time he was without a courtesy car. And he 
thought One Insurance should increase its offer of compensation to £500 due to the length 
of time it was taking to make repairs. 
One Insurance didnt respond to the Investigators view. But Mr R replied that whilst he was 
happy with the increased compensation, he still wanted his car to be repaired or to be 
offered an alternative. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has told us that his car has now been returned to him. I can understand that Mr R felt 
frustrated that he was waiting so long for his car to be repaired. From what I can see, his car 
was repaired 20 months after the incident. He said the small courtesy car provided was too 
small for his familys needs. And I can see that hes worried that his car could have 
deteriorated after sitting in a parking lot for over a year. 
One Insurance has a responsibility to deal with claims fairly and promptly. So Ive looked at 
how its dealt with Mr Rs claim. One Insurance instructed its repairer to make the repairs 
and provide a hire car three days after the claim was notified, which I think is reasonable. 
But two weeks later, it told Mr R that the repairer lacked capacity and it was looking for an 
alternative. Mr R pointed out that his car was unroadworthy and he hadnt been provided 
with a courtesy car. 
A month after the incident, the repairs estimate was authorised, which I think was within a 
reasonable time. One Insurance told Mr R that courtesy cars were subject to availability. But 
repairs were delayed due to the lack of parts. One Insurance said this was outside its 
control. Two months after the incident, repairs hadnt been started and Mr R was still without 
a courtesy car. 
Three months after the incident, Mr R told One Insurance that hed been provided with a 
courtesy car by one garage. I can see that Mr R said the car was too small, but it was in 
keeping with the policy provision. There was now confusion as One Insurance had instructed 
a different garage, but Mr R retained the car. There was no estimated time of arrival for the 
needed parts. And this continued for the rest of 2022. 
A year after the incident, One Insurance told Mr R that it would review how to proceed due to 
the time hed already waited for repairs. But I cant see that it did this. And One Insurance 
offered Mr R £300 compensation. But I dont think this goes far enough in the circumstances. 
I think its unreasonable to expect Mr R to wait indefinitely for his car to be repaired. 
We think that if it looks likely the delay will run into months wed expect the insurer to 
consider other options as well. These would include paying for bespoke parts to be made, 
possibly using reconditioned parts (provided there is no impact on the vehicles warranty) or 
treating the vehicle as a total loss. And I think that after six months without an expected date 
for the needed parts then One Insurance should have acted. But it didnt and I think it should 
have provided Mr R with other options to resolve his claim. 
 Our Investigator thought One Insurance should increase its offer of compensation to £500 
for the delays. And, as Mr R was kept mobile for much of this time, then I think thats fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr R was unhappy that he was without a courtesy car at the start of the claim. Mr R told us 
that his car was undriveable, and, in the absence of any further information from One 
Insurance, I have no reason to doubt him. Our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably.
In its letter to Mr R after he made his claim, One Insurance told him:
Replacement Vehicles
For any fault incident, you will be provided with a replacement courtesy vehicle for the 
duration of your repairs. Should your vehicle be deemed a total loss however, a vehicle will 
not be provided. In cases where your vehicle is no longer safe to drive, we will endeavour to 
provide a replacement vehicle as soon as possible, in the event the vehicle can be deemed 
economically correct to repair. Please be aware, the replacement vehicle is usually a small 
hatchback under 1200cc 
So, as Mr Rs car was undriveable but repairable, then One Insurance should have provided 
a replacement as soon as possible for the duration of the repairs. But, when he complained, 
One insurance told Mr R that a courtesy car was subject to availability. Ive looked at Mr Rs 
policy documents provided by One Insurance, and I can see that in the Courtesy Car section 
on page 9 One Insurance sets out when it wont provide a courtesy car. But these dont 
include Mr Rs circumstances. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) states:
if you have your car repaired through an approved repairer we will provide you with a 
courtesy car.
and
A courtesy car is subject to availability at the approved repairer and is not always 
guaranteed.
But this is at odds with what One Insurance told Mr R in its letter following his claim and the 
condition isnt included in the policy document. And so I think One Insurances terms and 
conditions are unclear on this point and it failed to reasonably manage Mr Rs expectations. 
So, to put things right, I think One Insurance should compensate Mr R for the time he was 
without a courtesy car from the date the repairs were authorised. This is the date when One 
Insurance should have confirmed that the car was repairable and so Mr R was entitled to a 
courtesy car. Compensation for loss of use is set at £10 a day.  Mr R now has his car back. He hasnt said that hes unhappy with the repairs or that the car 
has deteriorated after over a year of not being used. But if he is unhappy then he should 
complain to One Insurance again to give it a chance to respond. If he remains unhappy, he 
can then bring any further complaint to us. 
Putting things right
I require One Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr R £200 further (£500 in total) compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its delays in carrying out repairs to his car.
2. Pay Mr R compensation for the loss of use of his car at the rate of £10 a day from the 
date the repairs were authorised until the date Mr R was provided with a courtesy car. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman