DRN-4195508
Complaint
Mr R is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do more to help him when he was the victim 
of a scam. He has brought this complaint with the assistance of a representative, but for 
simplicitys sake Ive referred to Mr R throughout.
Background
Between late 2019 and mid-2020, Mr R fell victim to an investment scam. He used his HSBC 
account to make multiple transfers in connection with the scam and lost a total of over 
£300,000. It all began in 2016 when he invested in a genuine company incorporated in 
Australia. Its not entirely clear whether he bought shares in that company  theres a 
reference in the file to an arrangement called a profit share and the terms of it arent clear. 
In any event, he invested in that company in one way or another.
In April 2018, he received a letter from someone who offered to redeem the funds hed paid 
towards this investment, subject to an early redemption fee being charged. Mr R said he 
didnt respond to this letter because he was suspicious about the company.
In October 2019, he received a letter from a company that claimed to have been appointed 
as the liquidators of the intermediary that had arranged his original investment. He looked up 
this company, found that it had itself been dissolved. He wrote back to the sender of this 
letter to inform them of this and decline any further contact.
In November 2019, he was contacted by a different company that said it had been appointed 
as the liquidator of the intermediary. He was asked to sign a non-disclosure agreement. 
From what he has told us, it appears that the intermediary had indeed gone into liquidation, 
but the company that claimed it had been appointed as liquidator wasnt legitimate. Mr R had 
instead been approached by fraudsters. Shortly afterwards, he was contacted by a 
representative of a Chinese bank who said they were interested in purchasing his shares in 
the Australian company. Mr R was happy to proceed with the sale at the price that was 
offered.
There then followed a chain of events in which Mr R transferred sums at the request of the 
fraudster with each payment justified by a new and fictitious explanation:
He was told he needed to purchase an insurance policy related to the sale of the 
shares. He was satisfied with the explanations given to him by the representative of 
the Chinese bank and so he agreed to sign a policy document and pay £9,000.
He was then told by the representative of the bank that the proceeds of the sale of 
his shares would need to be paid into an overseas account. The scammers told him 
that one had been opened for him with a bank in Austria. However, he needed to pay 
a deposit of £20,000 into that account as part of the account opening process.
He was told that, to lawfully execute the sale of the shares, Mr R would need to be 
licensed as a share trader. He was told that a licence could be purchased for 
£10,000 which he duly transferred.
In January 2020, he was contacted by a representative of an established commercial 
law firm in London. He was told this firm had a role in overseeing the liquidation of 
the intermediary. They told Mr R that there was a risk that the proceeds of the sale of 
his shares could be swallowed up by the liquidation process and paid to the 
intermediarys creditors, rather than to him. The law firm, however, claimed it had a 
way of getting around that problem. It had created an offshore account for Mr R with 
a well-known bank. He was told that, to be eligible for that specific offshore account, 
he would need to deposit £100,000. He was reassured that those funds would be 
returned to him once he received the proceeds of the share sale. Mr R was happy 
with this explanation and so he visited a branch of HSBC and authorised the 
payment.
He then received a letter from someone who purported to be an employee of that 
bank. It said that the specific account that had been opened for Mr R required a 
deposit of £250,000. Mr R agreed to make up the difference so that he was compliant 
with what he believed were the requirements of the account. As before, he was 
assured that all these funds would be returned to him later.
In March 2020, he was contacted to say that there was a problem with paying him 
the proceeds of the sale. The transfer had been obstructed by the tax authorities in 
Hong Kong. They wouldnt allow the funds to be transferred until Mr R paid a fee of 
25% of the value of the transfer. He was told that this too would be refunded to him.
Shortly afterwards, he was told that he needed to pay a late filing fee of £10,000 - 
this was the final barrier to him having his funds returned to him. He was then 
contacted again and told that hed paid the £10,000 to the wrong account  this 
meant that the late filing fee had increased to £31,250. Mr R was unhappy with that. 
He wrote to the head office of the bank that he believed he had an offshore account 
with to complain. It responded to him to explain that it had not provided him with any 
of these services and that it was likely hed fallen victim to a scam.
Mr R made several further payments after the events described above. Its unclear whether 
these payments were related to this scam. He says they werent and doesnt expect HSBC 
to reimburse him. He does, however, think HSBC ought to reimburse him for the payments 
he made up until that point. He raised his complaint with HSBC, but it didnt agree.
It said that Mr R had authorised the payments and it had a legal duty to act on his 
instructions. Mr R was unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator noted that HSBC 
shouldve been on the lookout for transactions that appeared to have a higher risk of being 
fraudulent. On spotting such a transaction, it was required to intervene to protect its 
customer from the risk of financial harm. The Investigator concluded that by the time Mr R 
made his fourth payment  an international payment for £20,000  HSBC ought to have 
been concerned that he was at risk.
It shouldnt have processed this payment (or the subsequent ones) until it had a 
conversation with Mr R and asked him questions to satisfy itself that he wasnt at risk of
fraud. If it had done so, the Investigator concluded, Mr R wouldve been prevented from 
making the subsequent payments to the scammer. The Investigator also thought that Mr R 
had acted reasonably and couldnt fairly be considered responsible for his own losses.
HSBC disagreed with the Investigators opinion. It said that it considered the scam to have 
been inherently implausible. It pointed out that the total amount Mr R transferred was twelve 
times the value of the shares he was selling. Overall, it argued that a reasonable person wouldnt have believed the reasons Mr R was given for needing to make the payments. 
It wasnt persuaded, even if it had identified the scam risk, that it couldve prevented Mr R 
from going ahead with the payments. Nonetheless, it agreed to pay him compensation to the 
value of £150,000. Mr R didnt accept the offer. In particular, he told the Investigator that he 
didnt think HSBC had done enough to assist with the recovery of the money he lost to the 
scam.
Since HSBC disagreed with the Investigators recommendation, the complaint was passed to 
me to consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 12 May 2023. I wrote that:
It is common ground that Ms R authorised these payments, so although he did not 
intend the money to go to the scammers, under the relevant regulations, and the 
terms and conditions of her account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions like this, those steps may include following the 
Banking Protocol where appropriate.
I agree that HSBC ought to have intervened at some point during the lifetime of this 
scam. The payments were plainly out of character and bore all the hallmarks of a 
high-value investment scam. In response to the complaint, HSBC has agreed that it 
ought to have intervened when Mr R authorised the payment of £100,000 in branch. I 
would agree with that conclusion  by that point, its concerns about the risk of 
financial harm posed to Mr R should have crystallised.
The payment shouldnt have been processed until a conversation had taken place 
between Mr R and an employee of the bank so that HSBC could satisfy itself that he 
hadnt been targeted by a fraudster. I think its likely Mr R wouldve been candid with an employee of the bank about the reasons for the payment and I think it was 
sufficiently unusual that it wouldve been recognised as a potential scam.
HSBC couldve recommended several steps that might have helped Mr R to protect 
himself  for example, he believed an account had been created for him with a third-
party bank. A telephone call to that bank wouldve revealed that that was not the 
case. Once that information came to light, it wouldve been quite clear that this was a 
scam. If HSBC had handled that intervention appropriately, I think its likely it 
wouldve prevented the subsequent losses too. My starting point therefore is that 
HSBC ought to refund the money Mr R lost from the £100,000 payment onwards.
However, Ive also thought about whether Mr R can be considered partially 
responsible for his own losses here. In doing so, Ive taken into consideration what 
the law says about contributory negligence, but also borne in mind that I must decide 
this case based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Mr R to be considered 
partially responsible here.
From the version of events hes shared with us, Mr R had already rebuffed two 
attempted scams that essentially used the same methodology. One of these was a 
month before this scam commenced. Its not clear to me why Mr R, having been 
sceptical of the approach he received in October 2019, was willing to accept so many 
of the claims made by the scammers so soon afterwards.
Its not entirely clear to me why the liquidation of the broker that had arranged Mr Rs 
purchase of the shares had any relevance. Once he owned those shares, he was 
presumably free to sell them to any other buyer at his discretion. When the 
scammers told him that the proceeds of his sale might be lost as part of the 
liquidation of the broker, Im surprised he didnt question why there was any 
connection between the two things.
Im surprised that Mr R didnt find it unusual that a large commercial law firm which 
claimed to be acting on behalf of the liquidators would take steps to help him protect 
his assets from the intermediarys creditors. This would essentially mean that the 
solicitor would be acting against the interests of their client. Mr R ought to have found 
this strange and acted with far greater caution.
Finally, Mr R signed an insurance contact that apparently related to the sale of his 
investment, but its relevance is not at all clear. The document was entitled Fully 
Comprehensive Pecuniary Insurance Policy Agreement and wouldnt be 
straightforward for the layperson to interpret. The scammers look to have attempted 
to repurpose some language from a deed used for the sale of shares. The language 
used is arcane and impenetrable. There is nothing in the document that relates to 
any risk that was being insured. While I wouldnt have necessarily expected Mr R to 
have recognised that this document was essentially meaningless, Im surprised that 
he didnt seek independent advice when asked to transfer £9,000 and sign a 
document that he couldnt have understood.
There were other things that ought to have concerned him too. He doesnt appear to 
have been given any explanation as to why the proceeds of the sale needed to be 
paid into an offshore bank account, rather than any other bank account that he 
controlled. He also accepted at face value the claim that, to sell his shares, he 
needed to be a licensed share dealer and paid £10,000 without asking any further 
questions.Overall, Im satisfied that Mr R was contributorily negligent here and that it wouldnt 
fair and reasonable for HSBC to be expected to reimburse him in full. I can see that it 
has agreed to pay him £150,000 to partially compensate him for his losses. From 
everything Ive seen, I think thats a fair offer.
Other issues
Mr R has said that HSBC shouldve done more to recover his losses from the 
receiving accounts. The proceeds of scams tend to be moved out of the receiving 
accounts very promptly and, since this scam took place over a period of months, the 
chances of any money remaining wouldve been very low.
In any case, I can see that HSBC did contact the banks to which these payments 
were made after he reported that hed fallen victim to a scam. Its up to those 
individual banks to determine whether theyre legally obliged to return Mr Rs funds (if 
they remained in those accounts), subject to whatever their required to do to comply 
with the local law. Unfortunately, Im not persuaded HSBC has done anything wrong 
in respect of its efforts to recover Mr Rs money here.
Mr Rs representatives responded on his behalf. They disagreed with my provisional findings 
and argued that Id held Mr R to an unreasonably high standard. They reiterated that HSBC 
ought to have recognised the fraud risk at the time and intervened in an effort to protect Mr R 
from financial harm. If it had done so, they argue that its highly likely the scam wouldve 
been prevented.
Theyve also argued that Mr R acted reasonably and had a reasonable basis for believing 
the scam was genuine. They highlighted some of the checks that he conducted. They also 
said that documentation he signed for the Chinese bank contained the FSCS logo and an 
FCA registration number. They argued that Mr R built a relationship with the scammers who 
answered all questions he had in a knowledgeable and professional manner. This helped to 
persuade him this was a legitimate arrangement.
Broadly speaking, I agree with its observation that HSBC ought to have intervened and that, 
if it had done so, its more likely than not that the scam wouldve been prevented. Ive also 
considered its comments on whether Mr R acted reasonably. However, Im afraid Im not 
persuaded to depart from the findings I made on that point. 
I accept that he conducted some basic checks that verified things hed been told by the 
scammers. However, too many of the things he was asked to do simply didnt make sense. 
He appears to have taken at face value implausible explanations for the payments he 
needed to make. 
I note that his representatives have said that he was taken in by the fact that hed built up a 
trusting relationship with the scammers. But the version of events thats been shared with 
me suggests that, on several occasions, the scammers posed as representatives of different 
organisations  such as the law firm and a different bank. Its not clear to me why the rapport 
hed built up with his initial contact wouldve affected these later interactions. 
Overall, I remain of the view that Mr R was contributorily negligent here and that its fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to not reimburse him in full. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I find that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair offer of 
compensation. If Mr R accepts this final decision, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay him that sum. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman