DRN-3750474
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited handled and settled a 
claim he made under his home insurance policy for storm damage. 
What happened
Mr F holds a household insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). 
On 16 February 2022, Mr F said there was a storm. During this period of poor weather, he 
said he heard the tiles on his roof rattling and the sound of debris falling into the loft area 
directly above his bedroom ceiling. 
Over the next few days, Mr F said he heard similar noises as his house suffered additional 
damage following a further storm. He said, when he was able to inspect the loft, he could 
see daylight coming through the ripped and torn roofing felt that had been blown inwards by 
the force of the winds. He also found roofing felt and debris on the loft floor.
Mr F contacted RSA to make a claim under his policy for damage, which he said had 
happened following two successive storms. He obtained a quote from a building and roofing 
company, which Ill call J, which itemised the work needed to repair the roof.
RSA appointed a buildings inspector, which Ill refer to as B, to undertake an inspection of 
the damage and assist it in dealing with the claim. B visited Mr Fs property 7 March 2022 to 
determine the cause of damage.
B inspected Mr Fs property from ground level using a camera on a telescopic pole. It took 
photographs of the roof and went inside Mr Fs property to inspect and photograph the loft 
area. 
Following Bs visit, it informed RSA that it had observed torn roofing felt and mortar 
deterioration, which had taken tiles outside the valley on the front elevation of the property. It 
stated it couldnt see evidence of storm related damage and thought what had occurred was 
due to age related wear and tear and a natural breakdown of materials. RSA relied on this 
report and repudiated Mr Fs claim.
Mr F refuted what B had said about the condition of his roof. He stated that his invoice from J 
proved the damage had been caused by a storm. And he felt, as thered been two 
successive storms at around the time the damage occurred, adverse weather had caused 
the damage hed reported. 
Mr F asked RSA to reconsider his claim by way of a complaint and raised concerns that Bs 
assessor was disinterested and had breached covid regulations by not wearing a mask 
during their visit to his property.
When RSA responded to Mr Fs complaint it maintained its repudiation decision stating that, 
while it was satisfied there were storm conditions prevalent at the time the damage was 
sustained, it thought the damage had been caused by age related wear and tear. It said 
damage caused in this way was excluded by Mr Fs policy. So, it didnt think its decision to 
decline his claim was incorrect. And it didnt uphold his concerns about how Bs assessor 
had behaved during their visit.
Being dissatisfied with how RSA had dealt with his complaint Mr F referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They thought RSA had dealt with Mr Fs complaint fairly and done nothing wrong 
in declining his claim. But Mr F disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr F. His property suffered damage at a time 
when he was recovering from surgery and I recognise that this must all have been very 
stressful for him. I can see hes gone to some trouble to provide our service with detailed 
submissions about why he believes RSA should meet his claim. I want to assure him that 
Ive read everything hes sent us. I hope hell understand if I dont address every comment 
hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint. 
I can also see that Mr F provided our investigator with a copy of a decision from another 
ombudsman in another complaint. Ive read that decision. However, Id like to make it clear 
to Mr F that this service looks at the individual circumstances surrounding each complaint we 
receive to decide what we thinks the fairest way to resolve that particular complaint. That 
almost inevitably means that cases which, on the face of it, might share similar features 
could well result in quite different outcomes. And certainly, no case we decide is intended to 
act as a precedent for all complaints of that nature. 
My role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake in deciding Mr Fs claim, or treated 
him unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about 
everything Mr F and RSA have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr Fs property. However, theres disagreement 
between him, RSA and its appointed agents about the cause of the damage and the correct 
outcome of this claim. 
Mr F would like RSA to cover the damage to his property because he feels it was caused by 
adverse weather. His policy with RSA provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils 
that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for 
a claim to be successful, the onus rests on Mr F to show that the damage hes claiming for 
was caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?I have re-assessed Mr Fs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind. 
And I should also clarify that the answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this 
service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr Fs policy defines the word storm as:
very strong winds powerful enough to cause structural damage to homes within its path. Its 
usually accompanied by torrential rainfall, hail or heavy snow.
In this case, RSA have informed this service that wind speeds of 49 mph were recoded 
within Mr Fs locality. Its clear from the evidence Ive seen that RSA accepted there was 
weather consistent with its policy definition of a storm at around the time the damage 
occurred. So, Im satisfied I can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. Here, there was deterioration to the mortar around the roof 
tiles and damage to the roofing felt. Im satisfied that the damage reported is something that 
could be expected following a storm. I can therefore answer this question affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the issue of whether I think the storm was the main cause of the damage in 
this instance. 
As I set out in the background to this complaint, RSA instructed B to provide an opinion on 
the cause of damage. Mr F has questioned the impartiality of B but its a recognised 
organisation that regularly assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. So, it isnt 
unreasonable for RSA to use Bs expertise in assessing a claim for roof damage.  
B informed RSA that the valley at the front elevation mortar had dropped. It stated there was 
no evidence of storm damage to the roof. Instead, there were areas of mortar missing and 
the verge had filled with moss and debris. It observed a gap between the chimney and the 
flashing. This was due to gradual weathering. And B said the roofing felt had been ripped 
inside and was showing signs of age-related wear and tear.
Mr F disagrees with Bs opinion on the cause of damage. Hes said that Bs assessor was 
disinterested in his claim and hes questioned the thoroughness of Bs inspection - raising 
concerns that his roof was inspected from ground level. However, it isnt unusual for 
buildings inspectors not to go up onto a policyholders roof due to health and safety, and 
other, reasons. So, inspecting a roof from ground level doesnt demonstrate disinterest or an 
unwillingness to investigate a claim. 
Ive seen any evidence that shows the assessor appropriately investigated this claim during 
their visit to Mr Fs property. I say this because their report is very detailed and typical in 
length and content to the reports our service sees from other assessors employed by B. 
They took a large number of close up detailed photographs of the relevant areas of the roof, 
went inside Mr Fs property to inspect the loft and took a copy of the invoice from J. 
Based on the report Ive seen, Im satisfied Bs assessor undertook an appropriate and 
adequate inspection of Mr Fs property. Im persuaded it had sufficient information on which 
to determine the cause of damage here. And, impartially, I think the photographs B took 
support its findings that there was deterioration in the mortar and issues with the roofing felt, 
which is something that happens gradually.
I know Mr F feels RSA didnt properly take Js invoice into account when it declined his 
claim. Ive carefully reviewed the invoice Mr F provided from J. But, like our investigator, Im 
not as persuaded it offers an opinion on the cause of damage to the roof. The invoice is headed storm damage to roof but doesnt explain why the damage it observed was caused 
by storm. I therefore dont think Js invoice renders Bs opinion unreliable. 
Im satisfied that RSA has shown our service cogent evidence, which demonstrates that the 
damage, most likely, occurred due to the pre-existing condition of the roof. The storm wasnt 
the dominant cause of damage. So, Im not persuaded that damage was caused by a one-off 
storm event as required by Mr Fs policy. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its most 
likely that the adverse weather that Mr F experienced in February 2022 highlighted the pre-
existing condition of his roof and caused it to worsen.  
RSAs policy booklet makes it clear that loss or damage caused by wear and tear, a lack of 
maintenance or damage thats happened gradually over a period of time is specifically 
excluded under Mr Fs insurance policy. The policy defines wear and tear as normal use or 
ageing.
RSAs exclusions here are in common with most home insurance policies because 
insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring 
maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
As RSA has shown that the damage that occurred isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of Mr Fs insurance policy, I dont think its decision about his claim was unfair and 
unreasonable. And this means I cant ask it to pay this claim.
Ill turn now to Mr Fs concerns that Bs assessor wasnt wearing a face mask during their 
visit. I can understand Mr Fs upset about that he has a health condition that makes him 
clinically vulnerable. But the evidence Ive seen demonstrates that Bs assessor was entitled 
not to use a face mask due to a medical exemption. So, I cant fairly conclude that he 
breached covid regulations in not wearing a mask during the visit to Mr Fs property.
Finally, Mr F has told our investigator that he feels his insurance policy was mis-sold by RSA 
because it didnt cover him for the storm damage claim he reported. I can see that our 
investigator informed Mr F that hell need to raise a separate complaint to RSA before our 
service can investigate the merits of these concerns. This was good advice because RSA 
needs an opportunity to respond to these concerns before our service can intervene. I 
therefore cant address this issue within this decision.
I know Mr F will be disappointed by this outcome. He feels very strongly about the issues 
raised in his complaint and I appreciate the reasons why he brought his complaint to our 
service. But for the reasons outlined Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly and reasonably. So, I 
wont be asking it to do anything further. This now brings to an end what we, in trying to 
resolve Mr Fs dispute with RSA informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr F any 
further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman