DRN-2499579
The complaint
Ms S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy was probably taken out in 
one of the banks branches. The policy was designed to cover Ms Ss mortgage, which was 
in the joint names of her and her partner, and it provided her with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms S didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
Its disappointing Lloyds cant provide any paperwork about the policy.
The PPI was unsuitable and unnecessary.
She doesnt recall any exemptions or limitations being discussed. And she doesnt 
remember being told how much commission Lloyds would receive from the sale of the 
policy.
The adjudicator said the policy cost £17.82 each month. She paid £25.74 a month for the 
policy, as evidenced by her bank statements
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss complaint.
Lloyds has very limited paperwork from the time of the sale so doesnt have a record of what 
took place, or the terms of the policy. This isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given this took 
place so long ago. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, 
I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint for the following reasons:
The PPI was taken out to cover Ms Ss mortgage which was already in place with another 
provider. The PPI was a separate product, so theres nothing to suggest that Ms S would 
have thought she had to have it. Overall, I think Ms S knew that the PPI was optional and 
that she chose to take it.
Lloyds cant say for sure if it recommended the policy to Ms S. In the circumstances, I think 
its fair that I consider this complaint to the higher standard of an advised sale. That means 
Lloyds had to make sure the policy was suitable for Ms S.
It doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable based on what Ive seen of Ms Ss circumstances 
at the time. I say this because:
Ms S was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the likely terms and 
conditions.
Ms S told us she would have received six to 12 months pay from her employer if she 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident and that she had some savings. From what 
we know about PPI policies, this one would have paid out for up to at least 12 months in 
the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness in addition to her sick pay. It also 
covered her if shed become unemployed. The mortgage was a significant long-term 
financial commitment and Ms S and her partners home was at risk if they didnt keep up 
with the repayments. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit, in addition to 
Ms Ss existing arrangements.
Ms S says she doesnt recall the exclusions and limitations of the policy being discussed. 
And I accept thats possible. But the exclusions and limitations would have been for 
situations where the consumer was self-employed or had a pre-existing medical 
condition. Ms S wasnt affected by these. As she could have benefitted from the full 
extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed better advice or information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Ms S before she 
agreed to purchase it. Its possible she wasnt told the cost until she received 
confirmation that the policy had been set up. For this reason, I have considered whether 
clearer information about the cost would have affected Ms Ss decision to purchase the 
policy. She would have known she would have to pay something for it. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely she would have 
made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Ms S says our adjudicator provided the wrong figure for the cost of the policy. When the 
policy was taken out in 1996, the monthly premium was £17.82, but this would have 
increased over the years. Which is why Ms S has evidence of paying a higher premium 
in the years after the policy had started.
Its possible the information the bank gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloydss recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Ms S would have made a different decision about taking out the 
policy if better information had been provided to her  overall, I think she would still have 
taken out the policy.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Ms S any of the commission she may 
have paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance only apply to 
lenders. In this case, Ms Ss lending was provided by another business, Lloyds just sold the 
PPI policy. So the rules about commission dont make a difference to my conclusion.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman