DRN-3696692
The complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened 
In June 2018, Mr S acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr S was required to make 49 monthly repayments of around £311. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £15,226.
Mr S says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check and verifying Mr S income 
from his payslips.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr S didnt agree. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr S about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed a credit 
check which it has explained showed Mr S had no recent missed repayments and while 
there was a defaulted account this occurred 71 months prior to his application and it said 
that there were no other adverse entries after this. It also verified Mr S income using 
payslips. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence 
and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Moneybarn gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be 
affordable to Mr S. I say this because Mr S payslips showed his monthly income was around 
£1,599. Moneybarn didnt provide a copy of Mr S credit report and so I have considered the 
information included in the copy provided by Mr S. I dont think this showed concerns that 
meant further checks should have taken place and gave credit commitments in line with 
£283 that Moneybarn included in its assessment. This left Mr S with around £1,000 after 
making the agreement repayments for his living costs. Mr S credit file didnt suggest he was 
experiencing financial difficulties and I do not find it unreasonable, based on his disposable 
income that Moneybarn considered this agreement affordable. For these reasons, I dont 
think Moneybarn acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman