DRN-3861647
The complaint
Mr T complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants it to pay his claim.  
What happened
Mr T had a car accident and he made a claim on his policy. Advantage declined the claim 
because it said Mr Ts car had failed its MOT the previous day and wasnt in a roadworthy 
condition. And it said the faults found by the MOT had contributed to the accident. Mr T said 
he still had a valid MOT, the faults werent dangerous, and no warning lights had shown 
when he had started his journey. Advantage still declined the claim, but it paid Mr T £50 
compensation for communication issues. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr T still 
had a valid MOT and his car was still legally roadworthy. She thought Advantage hadnt fairly 
decided that the cars condition had contributed to the accident. So she thought it should 
reconsider the claim and pay Mr T £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Advantage replied that it thought the warning lights for the anti-lock braking system (ABS), 
and traction/stability control had been showing and Mr Ts car hadnt met the minimum 
requirements for roadworthiness. It thought these faults explained why Mr T had lost control 
of his car at a low speed shortly after the MOT. Advantage asked for an Ombudsmans 
review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to Advantage on 22 November 2022. I summarise my findings:
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Advantage relied on the following terms and conditions on page 36 of the Policy Booklet to 
decline the claim:
You should maintain your Car in an efficient and roadworthy condition and have a valid 
Department for Transport Test Certificate (MOT) and  
If the condition of the car causes or contributes to an incident, cover wont be provided 
under the policy
Mr T said he had a valid MOT until the end of the month in which he had the accident. 
Advantage thought his new MOT over-rode this. The Investigator pointed out that the 
government advice is that you can drive your vehicle away from an MOT garage if:
Your current MOT certificate is still valid
No dangerous problems were listed in the MOT
Otherwise, the vehicle will have to be repaired before it can be driven. So, as Mr Ts 
previous MOT hadnt expired, then he still had a valid MOT. And the new MOT didnt list any 
concerns that were dangerous, though it did list five concerns that were major and 
requiring immediate repair. 
But the government advice also says that if you can take your car away, then it must meet 
the minimum standards of roadworthiness. So Mr T also had a legal responsibility to make 
sure that his car was roadworthy. 
The government advice is, amongst other things, that tyres must be free of cuts and defects 
and the brakes must work. Mr Ts MOT failed the day before his accident, showing five major 
defects that required immediate repair. Two of these faults were:
Anti-lock braking system warning lamp indicates ABS fault
Offside front tyre has cut in excess of the requirements deep enough to reach the ply or 
cords
Mr T said the ABS warning light was intermittent. He said it wasnt on when he started his 
journey. But it was picked up as requiring immediate repair in the MOT. A working ABS 
system is a legal requirement as faults with the ABS can lead to loss of stability and traction 
control.
So, due to the tyre cut and the brake fault, I was satisfied that Mr Ts car was unroadworthy 
at the time of the accident. Mr T shouldnt have been driving it after the MOT test. And I was 
satisfied that this was a sufficient reason, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions 
set out above, for Advantage to decline the claim. 
Advantage also said these faults contributed to the accident. It pointed out that a driver is 
particularly at risk of losing control in wet conditions, where traction control is especially 
important. And Mr T had said hed lost control of the car in wet conditions whilst travelling at 
25 to 30 mph around a roundabout, having driven just 11 miles since the MOT. 
Our Investigator thought that Advantage should carry out further investigation of how the 
faults contributed to or caused the accident. But I didnt think this was needed. I could see 
that Advantage had explained its reasoning in consultation with its inhouse engineers. And I 
thought this was sufficient in the circumstances to justify its decision to decline the claim. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr T or Advantage, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to not uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr T nor Advantage made further representations for me to consider. So I can see 
no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman