DRN-2016797
The complaint
Mr B complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited unfairly recorded a default on his 
credit file. He wants the default removed and compensation.
What happened
Mr B tells us that Link recorded a default on his credit file after hed missed some payments 
on a Debt Management Plan (DMP). He says Link sent the default warning and notice letters 
to a previous address despite having been advised of his new address. And as he didnt 
receive them, he was unable to take the required action to avoid the default.
Link told us that Mr B had missed three payments on the DMP for April, May, June 2019. 
And it had applied the default in accordance with the relevant guidelines in September 2019. 
It said it hadnt been notified of Mr Bs change of address until October 2019. It didnt accept 
it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think that the Link had done anything wrong. But he did recommend 
that it remove the default from Mr Bs credit file. He felt that taking into account the small 
amount of arrears that it would have a disproportionate effect upon Mr B. 
Link accepted our investigators view and agreed to remove the default. Mr B didnt agree as 
he felt this implied it was doing so out of goodwill and didnt offer any recompense for the 
stress hed been caused.
As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B would be upset at discovering his account had been defaulted 
when hed clearly been making responsible efforts to repay his debts through the DMP.
Mr Bs complaint is that it was unfair of Link to default his account as it had sent the required 
correspondence to his previous address despite being notified that hed moved. And this had 
meant hed been unable to take steps to avoid the default.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Our investigator gave a full timeline of events in his view letter. I shant repeat this in detail 
as the parties are aware of the content. In reality, theres very little factual dispute in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And what there is surrounds whether or not Link received 
notification of Mr Bs change of address - as well as the reasons he was unable to meet the 
terms of the DMP - before it recorded the default. What isnt in dispute is that because of the 
expenses associated with his move Mr B didnt make the required payments on time.
Both he and the administrators of the DMP- a business Ill call S - state that Link was 
informed that Mr B was moving address and the reasons why payments werent being made 
in full, as early as April 2019. Ive also seen that this change of address was recorded with at 
least one credit reference agency by 31 May 2019.
Conversely, Link has provided information that indicates it was not aware of the information 
about the reduced payments and change of address until October 2019. But it accepts that 
after Mr B complained about the default it didnt immediately record his change of address. 
And that it sent its final response letter and other correspondence to his previous address.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
I accept Mr B has provided evidence in the form of a letter from S that it notified Link of the 
changes in his circumstances. Equally, I have to acknowledge that Link sent S a copy of the 
default notice and letter at the same time as it was sent to Mr B. The administrator says it 
didnt receive this.  Mr B has also advised that hed arranged for mail to be forwarded from 
his previous address  so its not clear why he didnt receive the default letters. But I cant 
hold Link responsible for any failure there may have been by a third party to forward mail.
As Link has now agreed to remove the default from Mr Bs credit account, I dont think 
theres any necessity to get to the root cause of these inconsistencies. And I doubt if Id 
succeed, as each of the parties have disclosed the relevant correspondence which was 
seemingly sent but not received by the intended recipient.
Accordingly, Ive decided that  in order to determine this complaint - I dont need to make a 
formal finding of whether or not the address change had been received by Link prior to the 
default being recorded.
I accept that Mr B feels hes owed an explanation and Ive acknowledged that he would have 
been upset to have learned of the default. But my remit requires me to take account of all the 
circumstances.
That includes acknowledging that Mr B didnt make the agreed payments. And in defaulting 
the account after three missed payments on the DMP, Link was acting within the recognised 
guidelines that a default should normally be recorded within three to six months. 
Ive also reached the same opinion as our investigator that - if Mr B had been aware of the 
impending default - hed have been able to make adjustments and to have paid the required 
amounts. In doing so hed have avoided the default being recorded.
Link acknowledged making an error by not immediately recording Mr Bs change of address 
when it accepts it became aware of it on 25 October 2019. And that this led to mail being 
sent to the former address - including the final response letter dated 29 October 2019.Im aware that Mr B thinks he ought to be awarded compensation for the stress he 
experienced. But not every error by a business requires the award of monetary 
compensation. And here I think its probable that most of the stress occurred due to the 
recording of the default itself. That arose directly from the payments on the DMP not being 
made  not an error from Link. 
The mistake which was identified, occurred after the default had been recorded. I think that 
in agreeing to remove the default Link has sought to resolve the complaint in a fair and 
reasonable manner. And I shant ask it to do anything else.
Putting things right
Link has indicated that it has taken steps to have the default removed from Mr Bs credit file.
I dont require it to do anything else.
My final decision
Link Financial Outsourcing Limited has made an offer to remove the default from Mr Bs 
credit file. In my opinion that is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
My final decision is that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited  in full and final settlement of 
this complaint - should arrange to have the default removed from Mr Bs credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman