DRN-2028656
 
The complaint
Mr L complains about the decision HSBC UK Bank Plc made when it refused him a second 
personal loan and the way its dealt with his complaint. 
What happened
Mr L said hed applied for a personal loan with HSBC, but been turned down. He thought
that was a mistake by HSBC.
Mr L said that the reason HSBC had given for turning down his loan was that hed used a 
previous loan it had made a few months earlier, to pay off some of his mortgage, although 
hed said he was going to use it for home improvements. Mr L said that actually he did use 
the money for home improvements, it was just that the work didnt start until March 2018, 
and the loan was granted in December 2017. Mr L had reduced the mortgage on his old 
home with the money in the meantime. But he said he then received a refund a little over a 
month later.
Mr L set out a number of reasons why he thought it was acceptable to use the money in this 
way, including that there was no part of the contractual agreement between him and HSBC 
which required him to use the payment for home improvements.
Mr L said HSBC had made a considerable number of mistakes in considering his second 
request for a loan, and in responding to his complaint. And hed needed more money to 
complete his improvements, so hed had to take a loan elsewhere at a higher interest rate. 
He thought that HSBC should make up the difference between what he was paying on his 
new loan, and what he wouldve paid if HSBC had lent him the money. He also wanted 
compensation for being refused a loan during the most expensive part of the 
refurbishment of his house.
HSBC said it thought the last loan it had given Mr L wasnt used for the purpose hed told 
it about when he took the loan. It said Mr L had made a payment slightly larger than the 
loan funds with the reference mortgage payment on 29 December, only two days after 
the loan was paid into his account. HSBC said it doesnt give personal loans for the 
purposes of repaying a mortgage or purchasing a property.
HSBC said it knew that Mr L had received a larger sum, from his solicitor, into a different 
account in early February. Mr L said this was a refund. But HSBC didnt think this was a 
related payment.
HSBC reviewed its lending decision after Mr L appealed. But it still wouldnt lend to Mr L, 
because it still believed hed used the first loan for a different purpose than the one hed 
mentioned when taking that loan out.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that complaints 
handling isnt a regulated activity, so he couldnt look at what HSBCs complaints team had 
done. But hed looked at the decision HSBC made about the loan.
Our investigator said HSBC was, broadly speaking, entitled to decide who it lends to. Mr L 
had initially used his loan to make a mortgage payment, although hed later used it for the 
specified purpose. Our investigator knew that mortgage payments wasnt listed as one of 
the purposes for which HSBC wouldnt lend. But he said that wasnt an exhaustive list. Our 
investigator still said it was the underwriters decision who to lend to. And he didnt think 
HSBC was wrong to turn Mr L down for a loan.
Mr L didnt agree. He sent our service detailed arguments on why he didnt think HSBC 
could control the purposes for which the funds from his first loan were used. And he said that 
debt consolidation was an approved purpose for this sort of loan. HSBC hadnt said that the 
loan couldnt be used for consolidating secured debt. He also disagreed that we couldnt 
consider the actions of the complaint handlers, as he considered this was within our 
jurisdiction. The case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Before I start my decision, Id like to clarify a couple of points about the basis on 
which Im considering this complaint.
Our investigator explained that complaints handling is not, in itself, a regulated 
activity, so its not within our services jurisdiction. Mr L has argued that we are able 
to consider the responses that the complaints team made to him when it was 
considering his complaint, as an ancillary activity which is within our jurisdiction.
As I understand it, Mr L is not, therefore, seeking to make a standalone complaint 
about some errors of fact that HSBCs complaint handlers made in its responses to 
him. I think hes asking us to look at this in the context of the refusal to grant him a 
further loan. Thats the key issue here. But I dont think that the mistakes made by 
HSBC when it replied to Mr L have had any material impact on the eventual 
decision to continue to decline to lend to him.
Before I move to considering the substance of this case, Mr L may wish to note that 
our service usually considers that the decision on whether to lend or not is a 
commercial one for a bank to make. We wont usually interfere with that decision, or 
force a bank to lend to someone if it doesnt want to. So if my review of the recent 
decision taken by HSBC were to conclude that HSBC had made a mistake in 
refusing to lend to Mr L for the reason it gave, that wouldnt necessarily preclude 
HSBC refusing to lend for a different reason.
That said, HSBC did give a clear reason for refusing this loan. It reconsidered that 
decision, and refused to lend again for the same reason. So I will consider if it was 
unfair or unreasonable for HSBC to refuse to lend to Mr L because hed used the 
funds from his first loan, at least initially, for a different purpose to the one he gave 
when he took out the loan.
Mr L makes a number of statements about the information and documentation 
involved in his first loan. He argues, essentially, that there is nothing obliging him to 
use the money for the purpose that he said he was borrowing it for. Mr L has 
accepted that he initially used the money for a different purpose, to reduce his 
mortgage borrowing.
Mr L argues he did eventually use the money he was lent for the purpose it 
was intended. He just used it for something else first.Mr L says he spent this money, and substantial further sums, on home 
improvements. I dont think theres any dispute that hes spent a considerable 
amount on home improvements. But there may be some doubt as to whether this 
was the purpose of the loan HSBC made to Mr L. I note that the home Mr L has 
now spent money on wasnt purchased until 31 January 2018, over a month after 
he was granted a personal loan for home improvements by HSBC. So the outline 
timeline is as follows:
December 2017 - Personal loan for home improvements granted
December 2017 - Personal loan money used to reduce mortgage 
on existing property
January 2018 - New property purchased
February 2018 - Money (refund) received from Mr Ls solicitor
March 2018 - Money used towards home improvements on new property
I dont think its unreasonable, in these circumstances, for HSBC to express 
doubt about what Mr L said when he took out his first loan.
HSBC sets out a non-exhaustive list of purposes for which it will not approve a 
personal loan. Those include a number of different ways of funding purchases of 
property. It doesnt say that the loan may not be used to reduce mortgage 
borrowing.
But HSBC does say that the list of purposes for which it will not grant a personal 
loan isnt exhaustive. And I think, because of the number of times it mentions that 
loans cant be used to fund real property, that its more likely than not that HSBC 
wouldnt have granted this loan to Mr L if he had told it he was going to use the 
money, at least initially, to reduce his mortgage borrowing.
Mr L argues that the mention of debt consolidation, which is a permitted purpose 
for the loan, provides a basis which allows him to consolidate debts, even if they 
are secured. I havent considered the hypothetical position of this complaint if Mr 
L had asked for the first loan for debt consolidation purposes, or whether 
reducing the borrowing on one mortgage would count as debt consolidation. I 
dont think that arises here, because that isnt the purpose that Mr L gave when 
he took out the first loan. He said it was for home improvements.
Mr L has made a number of arguments about HSBCs inability to control the use 
he makes of money it has lent him. But I think those arguments only apply to the 
money HSBC has already lent him through the personal loan it granted him in 
December 2017. And I wont consider here whether HSBC could lawfully or fairly 
restrict the use of those funds, because again I dont think that issue arises. As 
far as Im aware, HSBC hasnt sought to apply any penalties at all because Mr L 
mentioned one purpose when he borrowed the money, and then at least initially 
used the money for something else.
But HSBC has seen funds which were first lent for one purpose at least initially used 
for another purpose. And HSBC has said that it would not have lent for the purpose 
that the money was, at least initially, used. Taking account of those points, I dont 
think that HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably when it refused to lend further sums 
to Mr L on the grounds that it gave.
For those reasons, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC didnt reply. Mr L wrote to disagree. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls reply began by questioning how this case has been handled by our service. Id like to 
start by explaining that it isnt part of my role to consider those points. I only look at the 
merits of this case. If Mr L would like to complain about how our service has handled this 
case, he can do so separately. 
Mr L said that Id distorted what actually happened, when I said that Mr L said that the 
reason HSBC had given for turning down his loan was that hed used a previous loan it had 
made a few months earlier, to pay off some of his mortgage, although hed said he was 
going to use it for home improvements. Mr Ls original submissions, and his latest replies, 
have been lengthy, and as ours is an informal dispute resolution service, we dont always set 
down each point in full, as it was made to us. Thats more in line with formal legal action  
and were an alternative to the courts. Here, I was attempting to sum up what Mr L had told 
us HSBC had said. I dont think that implies that I accepted this version of events.
Mr L said that my description of his reasons was deficient. Id referred to a number of 
reasons why [Mr L] thought it was acceptable to use the money in this way, including that 
there was no part of the contractual agreement between him and HSBC which required him 
to use the payment for home improvements. He said that the key argument was that 
HSBCs disclosure documentation does not prohibit borrowers from pursuing various 
intermediate purposes as long as the main purpose of the loan is fulfilled. This is presumably 
argued in the alternative to Mr Ls other submission, that any purpose provision is 
unenforceable, as it appears later that Mr L still argues this too. 
Mr L didnt think that it was relevant that his mortgage repayment was close to the loan 
drawdown date. He said I was just choosing to paint a picture of him as a deceitful borrower. 
Im sorry that Mr L felt that. This was not (and is not) my intention. Im simply trying to put 
things in perspective from HSBCs point of view  as I have to consider what both parties 
say about a complaint.
Mr L said hed repaid a portion of his mortgage to avoid having to pay interest on the loan 
and the mortgage while waiting for the building project to start, so he could pursue the main 
reason for borrowing. He said that the funds were returned to him on equity release in 
January 2018, and the used for building works that started in March 2018. 
Mr L said Id quoted HSBC as saying it doesnt give personal loans for the purposes of 
repaying a mortgage or purchasing a property. He said the reference to a property purchase 
was irrelevant, the money wasnt used for one. And he said that Id noted later that one of 
the permitted purposes of these loans was non-HSBC debt consolidation. Mr L thought that, 
because the documents HSBC had disclosed didnt specify that this debt consolidation 
couldnt include secured debt, it wouldnt be unreasonable to conclude that HSBCs 
statement about not lending for the purposes of paying off a mortgage was in direct conflict 
with its own disclosure. And he said that the more reasonable conclusion was that the 
mortgage repayment was an incidental or peripheral purpose. 
Mr L also said he wasnt clear on whether I thought that the loan proceeds were refunded to 
him. HSBC didnt think this payment of equity back into his current account was a related 
payment. He said hed sent documentation that showed it was. He thought I ought to be 
aware of the relevant law, and said that I should consult the body of trust law which deals with tracing claims, to decide whether the equity release on his flat mortgage in January 
2018 is traceable to the loan proceeds. 
Mr L said it was incorrect to say that he had initially used his loan to make a mortgage 
payment, although hed later used it for the specified purpose. He said the first use of the 
funds was to keep them in his current account. 
Mr L said it was also incorrect to say that hed argued that HSBC couldnt control the 
purposes for which the funds from his first loan were used. He said hed argued that HSBCs 
used of the non-exhaustive list fell foul of the requirements in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA), and therefore as an unfair contract term would be unenforceable. He said that 
selective quoting and misrepresentation of the parties arguments by me was consistent with 
the biased pivot of my decision. Ive explained why Mr Ls arguments werent set out in full. 
Mr L said that when Id said that even if I decided HSBC had made a mistake in refusing to 
lend to Mr L for the reason it gave, that wouldnt necessarily preclude HSBC refusing to lend 
for a different reason, I was wrong. He said that contrary to the CRA, HSBC relied on the 
non-exhaustive list to make its decision. The decision should not be allowed to stand, and 
the mendacious presentation of the facts by the complaint handlers at HSBC as well as the 
effect it had on him should be looked at. 
Mr L said that he noted I was going to decide whether it was unfair or unreasonable for 
HSBC to refuse to lend to Mr L because hed used the funds from his first loan, at least 
initially, for a different purpose to the one he gave when he took out the loan. He asked me 
to note, in turn, that consumer lending is a heavily regulated financial activity. He said it was 
unclear whether I had considered his arguments on the Consumer Credit Sourcebook and 
the CRA at all. 
Mr L said that Id incorrectly summed up his arguments as he did eventually use 
the money he was lent for the purpose it was intended. He just used it for 
something else first. Mr L said his position was that he didnt breach HSBCs pre-
contractual disclosure and loan agreement by initially keeping the funds in his 
current account and then repaying part of his mortgage, receiving a refund about a 
month later, placing it on a savings deposit and then spending it on his home 
improvement project. He said that the loan agreement lacked a purpose clause, 
but Id failed to acknowledge this in my provisional decision. 
He also said that it was incorrect to say hed just used the money for something 
else first. He said he initially kept the funds in his current account for several days. 
As Mr L has stressed elsewhere that he kept the loan funds in his current account 
for several days and taken issue with my description of his mortgage payment as 
an initial use of funds even though the money was in his current account for 
several days so this must be the initial use the money was put to, Id like to note 
the actual dates involved. Mr L received funds of £30,000 into his account on 27 
December. He paid off part of his mortgage on his flat on 29 December. Whilst 
nothing, in my view, turns on this, I dont think the time that the loan money was in 
his current account can fairly be described as several days. And I dont think that 
my decision required me to record expressly my understanding that Mr L didnt pay 
his mortgage with this loan money on the same day, but two days later. 
Mr L said that it was correct to say hed used the funds for the purpose specified in 
his loan application. He set out his understanding of the uses the loan money was 
put to first, and said that was reasonable. But I didnt reach the conclusion that Mr L is reading into this paragraph, that he 
had used funds for the purpose hed declared when borrowing. I simply set out a 
timeline of when funds were moved. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Im required to decide whether the 
funds that Mr L borrowed from HSBC can be traced through into the eventual 
payment for home improvements. I know HSBC did reach the conclusion that 
those funds could not be traced in this way. But its my view that this was not a 
necessary part of HSBCs decision not to lend again, and I dont think the decision 
by HSBC not to lend again stands or falls on this point.
Mr L objected to my timeline. He didnt think it was relevant that the completion 
date of his new property was a month after his loan for home improvements on 
that property. He said Id chosen to vilify him rather than consider all the evidence 
and market practice in an impartial, practical and independent manner.  
I can only apologise if Mr L has taken offence at this. I understood it to be an 
undisputed timeline of events. 
Mr L drew attention to where Id said that HSBCs list of purposes for which it wont lend 
mentions that loans cant be used to fund real property and concluded HSBC wouldnt have 
made the first loan to Mr L if hed said that it would be used, at least initially, to reduce his 
mortgage borrowing. Mr L set out the list disclosed to him, and said the restriction was only 
on the use of loan proceeds to fund purchases of real property. But thats not what hed done 
with the money. He repeated again the claim that hed kept the money in his current account 
for several days, then said hed repaid the principal amount on the mortgage of his 
residential property that hed bought eight years earlier. He said this wasnt a restricted 
purpose. And he said Id expanded HSBCs list to say it wouldnt fund real property when 
he considered the list only refused to give personal loans for purchases of real property. 
Mr L then repeated, in summary, the reasons why he thought that this non-exhaustive list fell 
foul of the CRA. He said Id reached the wrong conclusion by allowing HSBC to use an 
unfair contractual term against a consumer. But Ive explained I dont think HSBC is doing 
that. Its not sought to argue this list is a term of the first contract. Rather, its reviewed the 
overall circumstances around the first loan it made Mr L, and declined to lend a second time.
Mr L said that HSBC was the only one of the big four banks using such a non-exhaustive 
list. He said hed raised the use of unfair contract terms with the FCA. He later noted that 
HSBC no longer describes this list as non-exhaustive, and said I should ask HSBC why that 
was. He said it would be unjust if I relied on this abandoned term in my decision. 
Mr L also said I hadnt considered the loan application form constraints, which didnt allow 
him to set out all the purposes for which the money would be used. And he said that Id 
failed to draw a distinction between the main and intermediate purposes of his loan. Mr L 
said I was deeply misguided. He repeated an earlier conclusion that my interpretation must 
be that allowing the loan funds to stay in his current account, not paying them to the building 
contractor immediately, would breach the loan terms. I hadnt reached this conclusion.
Mr L closed by strongly disagreeing with my conclusions, and questioning both my 
professional ability and my approach to this case. As I explained earlier, its not for me to 
defend the way our service has handled this case. And that includes my own handling of the 
provisional and final decisions (rather than the merits Ive considered in reaching those 
decisions). Mr L can, as I have said, complain about that separately if he wishes. In conclusion, I have considered all the evidence in this case. That includes the purposes for 
which HSBC says it will not make personal loans, the purposes for which it allows lenders to 
take out a personal loan, and the purpose Mr L specified. And Ive looked at the activity on 
his account, and the timeline as I understand it. Ive explained that Ive not considered 
whether the list of purposes for which HSBC wouldnt lend is an unfair contract term, 
because cant see that HSBC has sought to enforce this. I dont have to decide here, 
hypothetically, whether it could enforce this as a term of the first loan. 
I do have to decide whether it was reasonable for HSBC to say it wouldnt lend a second 
time. For that, I think its relevant to look at the way money moved through Mr Ls account at 
this time, and to consider the timeline, which is why I set that out above. 
What Im doing here is reviewing the second lending decision HSBC made, to see if the 
outcome was fair and reasonable. I explained the background to that, that lending is largely 
a business decision for a bank to make. The bank assesses, and then carries, the risk 
involved, and because of that, our service doesnt usually make businesses lend. 
Mr L has sent further evidence that he says shows the loan funds can be traced through to 
money that he paid to his building contractors. I dont endorse HSBCs conclusion that the 
money it lent Mr L wasnt eventually used for home improvements. I dont think that I need to 
express a view on that as part of this decision. 
I wont set out the facts and timings again here. Ill simply record that I continue to think there 
is enough in that to give HSBC pause, and to make its decision not to make a second loan to 
Mr L a fair and reasonable decision. I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Mr L has indicated that he wouldnt accept this decision if it didnt change, and may take 
legal action against HSBC instead. He is of course free to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman