DRN-3906656
The complaint
I, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly placed a block on its account 
and that the bank provided a poor service.
I is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr B. For ease, Ill mainly refer to the 
complainant as Mr B in my decision.
What happened
Mr B complained to Lloyds after he experienced his business account being blocked multiple 
times last year. Mr B says he was unable to access funds in this account and had to use his 
personal account for business transactions. He adds that the bank provided a poor service 
when he got in contact with it about this issue and is unhappy that Lloyds didnt agree to 
provide him with a dedicated relationship manager.
In its responses, Lloyds explained that the first block Mr B contacted it about hadnt been 
lifted correctly, which is why he discovered a further block a few weeks later. The bank 
accepted that its service had been poor and offered £125 compensation to put things right. 
Lloyds added that its process doesnt include the provision of a dedicated relationship 
manager for Mr Bs particular business.
Remaining unhappy, Mr B asked this service to get involved. He wants Lloyds to increase its 
compensation offer and would like this to be calculated at an hourly rate. Our investigator 
decided that Lloyds had offered a fair resolution. Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final say.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Lloyds has offered a fair resolution to this complaint. I say 
this because:
Lloyds already accepts that it failed to properly lift the block the first time. Its 
reassuring that the bank recognised its error and ensured the block was correctly 
lifted when Mr B got in touch a second time.
Lloyds did tell us though that it wasnt Mr Bs business account that was blocked, it 
was only the debit card associated with this account that had been blocked. Lloyds 
says Mr B could carry out transactions from his account and it was only the debit 
card that couldnt be used. Ive seen a copy of Mr Bs banks statements, which show 
that payments were made and received during the period in question. Although I 
acknowledge Mr B wouldve had some difficulty operating the account without a 
working debit card, Im satisfied he had access to the funds.
Mr B is unhappy with the service provided by Lloyds, mainly because of an agreed 
call back from the bank never took place and because of the long wait times he 
experienced on the phone. Overall, Lloyds has offered £125 compensation to put 
things right  this amount is within the region of what I wouldve awarded for the 
inconvenience Mr B experienced, had the bank not offered anything at all. 
This services approach when considering compensation doesnt take into account 
an hourly rate, instead wed consider the overall impact of the wrongdoing. In this 
instance, Im satisfied the compensation offered fairly reflects the impact of what the 
bank did wrong, so I wont be asking Lloyds to increase its offer.
Mr B wants Lloyds to provide him with a dedicated relationship manager. The bank 
says Mr B can access a telephone-based team for this service. Lloyds says that it 
couldnt provide a dedicated relationship manager because Mr Bs business didnt 
meet the banks criteria for such a service. Its not within my remit to tell Lloyds how 
to deliver its banking services or what processes it should follow. Only Lloyds can 
decide how it conducts its banking service. I can only consider whether it has applied 
its practices fairly. Given it seems Mr Bs business doesnt meet the criteria, I think 
Lloyds acted fairly.
For these reasons, Ive decided that Lloyds has offered a fair resolution to this complaint. 
Should Mr B decide to accept the £125 compensation the bank has offered, he may contact 
Lloyds directly.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman