DRN-4120019
The complaint
Miss D complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of her home insurance 
policy.
Miss D is being represented in her complaint by Mr S, I shall refer to him where necessary 
below.
All references to British Gas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him that Ive 
considered everything hes provided to support the complaint very carefully. However, my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This 
isnt meant as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by all parties 
and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint for these reasons:
I understand Mr Ss frustration. The boiler has required several call outs between 
November 2022 and January 2023. At callouts, hes been assured the boiler is 
working but then the same fault code has presented itself - with intermittent issues 
with heat and hot water.
But from reviewing the information I have; Ive seen nothing to persuade me this was 
because of something British Gas or its engineers did wrong. While the same fault 
code may have presented itself, the job information provided by British Gas shows 
the engineers have tested the boiler following work and it has been confirmed as 
working. 
Its not uncommon for successive issues to present themselves with a boiler  or for 
individual faults to require working through. And each time work was carried out or 
repairs made, to get the boiler working again. Later an issue was identified with 
sludge in the system. Which isnt covered under the policy. However, its more likely 
than not this wouldnt have become apparent until later when the pump was removed 
in January 2023. 
So, while I understand Mr Ss frustration of having to make multiple call outs, Im not 
persuaded this means British Gas havent fulfilled the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
British Gas accepted it could have provided better service in handling Miss Ds claim. 
And I can see as Mr S has said, there have been several examples of poor service 
such as missed appointments and not responding to emails.
I also acknowledge the difficulties Mr S says the boiler issue has caused for Miss D 
with her tenant. Multiple calls outs, with the same fault code, including missed 
appointments would have been no doubt been frustrating for Miss Ds tenant. 
However, under our rules I cannot consider any distress or inconvenience caused to 
a third party. 
British Gas have offered Miss D £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I acknowledge Mr Ss comments, but I feel the compensation 
offered is in the range of what our service would recommend, and fair in the 
circumstances, so I make no further award.
Ive considered Mr Ss comments about revoking British Gass licence to operate in 
the UK. Were not the industry regulator. Our service has power to require 
businesses to compensate for loss or material distress or inconvenience, and to 
direct a business to act in relation to an individual. However, our service doesnt have 
the ability to punish businesses or to order it to change its practices or systems in a 
more general way.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman