DRN-3837205
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Union Reiseversicherung AG hasnt settled a hospital bill under 
her travel insurance policy, and that the matter has caused her distress.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties and are not in dispute. In summary in May 2019 Ms 
R submitted a claim for medical treatment she had in the USA in March 2019. The pre-
discounted hospital bill was $3,189.15. URV correctly accepted responsibility under the 
policy for the treatment and in January 2022 it made a partial payment of $679 to the 
hospital. It considered this payment was in accordance with customary and ordinary charges 
and with the terms and conditions of Ms Rs policy. The hospitals debt collector then was in 
touch with Ms R requiring her to pay the outstanding amount.
URV recognised that the service it had given to Ms R fell short and offered a sum of £800 - 
£500 for the time taken to pay the claim and a further £300 for the inconvenience caused to 
Ms R by having to continually send over correspondence received from the debt collector.
Our investigator thought this sum in compensation was fair, but he also recommended that 
URV now paid the outstanding bill in full.
Ms R agreed with this, but URV didnt. As no agreement has been reached the matter has 
been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that this complaint should be upheld, largely for the same reasons as 
explained by our investigator.
Ive taken into account the regulatory guidance. The Principles for Businesses (Principles) 
are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook and URV is obliged to follow 
these. 
Principle 6 says a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. 
Principle 8 says a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between a customer and another client. 
ICOBS 8.1.1R says an insurer must: 
Handle claims promptly and fairly  
Provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress  
Settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed 
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the FCAs guidance on 
what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules mean for providers and distributors 
of financial services. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the impact of their 
actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life cycle of the service being provided.
Ive also thought about what I consider having been good industry practice at the time of the 
claim. It is for insurers  and their agents  to engage diligently with medical facilities (and 
their respective agents) to try to resolve disputes over medical bills by actively seeking a 
compromise or adjudication of their bills. And this includes actively engaging in negotiation.
I havent disregarded what URV has said about the payment it made being reasonable in 
respect of the medical treatment provided. Ms Rs policy provides that URV will pay for 
customary and reasonable charges for necessary and emergency treatment. I note that the 
payment made was based on payment rates for medical treatment provided to the US 
Congress by the Medicare payment Advisory Committee. To those sums URV added a 50% 
uplift. 
But like the investigator Im not persuaded that the Congressional guidelines are a 
recognised benchmark for the fair payment of medical treatment costs outside of the 
Medicare system. Further Im not persuaded that the amounts charged in this case were 
unjustified or excessive. URV added that two items billed for were for drugs and it was 
unable to source data for these. This seems to be a rather poor explanation for not making 
any payment in this regard, particularly given the limited sums billed.
In the circumstances I dont find that URV handled Ms Rs claim in line with the regulatory 
guidelines referred to above. It took URV until January 2022 to make the payment it did. 
Although in fairness I can see that the audit team was asking for information from the 
hospital from June 2019. Nevertheless, there is nothing before me to suggest that URV 
attempted to negotiate or reach an agreement with the healthcare provider as I would have 
expected. Its clear that the sum it paid wasnt deemed sufficient to settle the outstanding 
costs and as a result Ms R has been chased for payment, causing anxiety and distress.
Given the length of time that has now passed and having taking into account URVs 
submissions, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to require URV to settle the outstanding 
amount with the hospital.
URV has made an offer to compensate Ms R for the length of time that this claim has been 
ongoing, and for the stress it has caused her. I agree that compensation is due  the matter 
has been ongoing for nearly four years. Additionally, I see that Ms R was being chased by a 
debt collector and felt this might have an impact of visa applications for the USA. I do note 
that URV offered to pay for a solicitor to represent Ms R with the aim of stopping further 
correspondence. However I think the sum offered by URV in compensation is fair taking all 
matters into account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to:
Pay the outstanding hospital bill for Ms Rs treatment in March 2019Pay Ms R £800 in compensation, if it hasnt done so already
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman