DRN-4448794
Complaint
Mr A has complained about a credit card Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) provided 
to him. He says the credit card was irresponsibly provided to him as if better checks had 
been carried out  such as requesting bank statements  it would have been clear his 
gambling meant he couldnt have afforded to make the repayments to this credit card.
Background
Capital One provided Mr A with a credit card with an initial limit of £750 in September 2021. 
Mr A wasnt provided with any credit limit increases. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr A and Capital One had told us. And she thought 
Capital One hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly in relation to providing the 
credit card. So she didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld. Mr A disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint.
Capital One needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Capital One needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether         
Mr A could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Capital One says it agreed to Mr As application after it obtained information on his income 
and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mr A would be 
able to make the relatively low monthly repayments due for this credit card. On the other 
hand Mr A says that he was already struggling and shouldnt have been provided with this 
credit card.
Ive considered what the parties have said. Whats important to note is that Mr A was 
provided with a revolving credit facility rather than a loan. And this means that Capital One 
was required to understand whether a credit limit of £750 could be repaid within a 
reasonable period of time, rather than in one go. A credit limit of £750 required relatively 
small monthly payments in order to clear the full amount owed within a reasonable period of 
time. 
Furthermore, Ive seen records of the information Capital One obtained from Mr A about his 
income and that was on the credit search carried out. And this information doesnt indicate to 
me that Capital One ought to have realised that Mr A didnt have the funds to make the low 
monthly payment that would be required for this credit card. 
I accept that Mr A says that his actual circumstances at the time were worse than what the 
information Capital One obtained showed. And I also accept that if Capital One had gone 
into the depth of checks Mr A appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank 
statements  its possible, but by no means certain, it may have reached a different decision.
However, in my view, there wasnt anything immediately obvious in the information that 
Capital One had, including Mr As existing indebtedness bearing in mind his declared 
income, which meant it shouldve asked Mr A to provide supporting evidence, such as bank 
statements, before providing him with a credit card, with this credit limit, in this instance. 
I can also see that Mr As position did worsen and I know the reason for this. But I think that 
it is fair to say that this was after the credit card had already been provided. And it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable for me to use hindsight here, or say that Capital One should have 
known this would happen. This is especially as the available information indicates Mr A 
could repay what he would owe at the time the lending decision was made and proportionate 
checks simply wouldnt have uncovered what it was that would lead to Mr As difficulties. 
So overall while I can understand Mr As sentiments, I dont think that Capital One treated  
Mr A unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his credit card. And Im not upholding 
Mr As complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman