DRN-3242010
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down a claim made under her 
Property Investors Protection Plan policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Around December 2020, Mrs H rented a property to a new tenant. Mrs H says that she 
attempted a property inspection around three months later but couldnt as the door wasnt 
answered.
Around May 2021, another of Mrs Hs tenants in a different property reported a drainage 
issue, so Mrs H arranged for a contractor to fix the problem. Access to the property was 
required but Mrs H was unable to contact the tenant, so she visited the property.
Upon visiting, Mrs H discovered the locks had been changed and the property was being 
used as a cannabis farm. So, Mrs H claimed under her landlord insurance policy for the 
damage caused.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. The loss adjuster said that Mrs H hadnt 
complied with a policy term regarding internal inspections of the premises taking place at 
least every three months or in accordance with the tenancy agreement. And further that 
there was no log or record of inspections as required in the policy. So, it recommended the 
claim be turned down.
Mrs H didnt agree so she complained to AXA, and then referred the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommended the complaint be upheld. 
They concluded AXA had acted reasonably based on the evidence.
In response Mrs H said shed been unable to gain access to the property internally, but that 
external inspections showed everything seemed completely normal and had given no cause 
for concern. Mrs H added that she was told she wouldve been acting illegally had she tried 
to gain access to the property without the tenants permission. 
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The damage Mrs H claimed for comes under the Illegal cultivation of drugs cover in the 
policy. But the following conditions apply:
We will cover you for the clean up costs and remedial works from the use of the premises 
for the manufacture, cultivation, harvesting or processing by any other method of drugs 
classed as a controlled substance under the Misuse of Drugs Act (1971).
Provided that you
1. carry out internal and external inspections of the buildings at least every 3 months 
or as frequently as is permitted under the tenancy agreement and
a. maintain a log of those inspections and retain that log for at least 24 months
I think that the condition is clearly set out in the policy terms. As are the requirements 
needed to comply with the condition which include a number of requirements for vetting the 
tenant. So, I think it was reasonable for AXA to ask for evidence of inspections.
In this case, no internal inspections were carried out by Mrs H as she says she was unable 
to arrange this with the tenant. The tenancy agreement permits Mrs H access to the property 
at all reasonable times and with reasonable frequency during the tenancy upon providing a 
minimum of 24 hours written notice. So, Im persuaded that she was enabled by the 
agreement to comply with the condition under the policy.
Ive considered Mrs Hs points about the reasonable attempts she made to gain access to 
the property. But even if I accepted that this was sufficient to meet the condition, the 
evidence shows that Mrs H didnt keep any logs of the inspections. So, I think that in any 
event, the terms required to comply with the condition werent met.
There were no internal inspections carried out for five months and it seems highly likely that 
the cannabis production equipment was installed in that time. Im persuaded on balance that 
had an internal inspection been carried out around three months into the tenancy its likely 
the damage to the property wouldve been noticed. And if the tenants had refused 
inspections, Mrs H couldve taken steps to gain entry and wouldve most likely noticed the 
locks had been changed. So, I think the non-compliance of this condition clearly increased 
the risk of the loss. And it therefore follows that in line with the relevant rules AXA has 
reasonably relied on this to turn down the claim.
I acknowledge Mrs Hs comments that everything appeared normal from the external 
inspections and from looking through the ground windows. But the evidence from the loss 
adjusters report shows that the rooms visible from the windows were some of the few that 
werent converted for cannabis production. And in all likelihood, I think it was for the very 
reason so as to not arouse suspicion should an external inspection take place.
Overall I think that AXA has shown that Mrs H didnt comply with the condition in the policy 
to carry out and log internal inspections every three months and in my view this increased 
the risk of the damage occurring, so AXA acted reasonably in turning down the claim.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint, which I appreciate will come as 
disappointing news.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman