DRN-4203592
The complaint
Mr T complains about the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc in relation to a balance transfer he 
instructed it to make using his credit card account. 
What happened
In August 2022, Mr T applied for a balance transfer with HSBC for £2,000. HSBC made an 
error and processed the instruction twice. So, an extra £2,000 was sent to Mr Ts other 
creditor, however it only debited Mr Ts HSBC credit card account once.
HSBC recognised the error and wrote to Mr T in October 2022. It apologised and said it 
would debit Mr Ts account for the extra £2,000 if it didnt receive a response from him within 
seven days. Mr T said he contacted HSBC upon receipt of the letter and was assured his 
account wouldnt be impacted. However, the account was debited soon afterwards, and Mr T 
incurred an overlimit fee as his balance was taken over the card limit. 
Mr T was unhappy about this and complained to HSBC. He also said he had to explain 
matters on the phone multiple times to different advisers, there were long call-wait times, 
and he didnt receive a call back when he was promised one. Mr T also said he was being 
repeatedly chased by HSBCs collections team, despite making regular contact with HSBC 
about matters. He said this was causing him further stress.
HSBC reviewed matters and, in summary, said it had tried to recall the extra payment of 
£2,000 from Mr Ts other creditor, but was unsuccessful. It told Mr T he would need to 
contact his other creditor and ask it to return the funds. HSBC also apologised that Mr T felt 
he was being chased but explained the collections team was contacting him because his 
card was over the limit. It acknowledged the length of time matters had been going on for 
and offered Mr T £100 compensation for this, and to cover his call costs.
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
reviewed matters. In summary, she thought HSBC should remove the interest and charges 
Mr T incurred as a result of the £2,000 being debited again and remove any adverse 
information from his credit file. She thought HSBC should do this from the date the error 
occurred, to two weeks following her view being sent, to allow Mr T time to provide approval 
to his other creditor to return the funds to HSBC. 
HSBC thought our investigators opinion was fair, but Mr T didnt. In summary, he said it 
would leave him in a worse position on his account with the other creditor because there 
were no funds left to return. He also said hed spoken with his other creditor who said it 
wouldnt return the payment, and that doing so would take him over that credit limit. He also 
outlined other solutions he thought would be fairer, including asking HSBC to increase his 
credit limit or asking it to accept a monthly payment plan for the balance. More recently, Mr T 
also said hed received notice of default from HSBC.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to date to decide what I 
currently think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its clear that HSBC made an error by duplicating the payment. I can also understand 
why Mr T might have been concerned to receive a letter explaining he had seven 
days to pay back the £2,000 in full, when he says he wasnt in a position to pay it at 
the time. And I can understand the stress and worry the matter would have caused 
him, given that this was a substantial amount of money HSBC was asking for in a 
short period of time.
That being said, Ive also considered that the error was initially a relatively small one 
that took place in August. And, on balance, I think its likely Mr T would have noticed 
the additional payment because, as outlined, this was a substantial amount of money 
that had been sent to his other card in error. So, Im persuaded that Mr T could have 
taken steps to try and rectify the mistake around the time it happened, which would 
have limited the impact matters have since had on him.
Ive kept all of the above in mind when thinking about a fair resolution in the 
circumstances. And whilst Im persuaded Mr T could have done more at the time to 
mitigate the impact caused, the fact remains that HSBC made a mistake, and Mr T 
says he isnt in a position now to pay back the funds in the way HSBC has requested. 
He says he no longer has access to his account with his other creditor and further 
debt has accrued on it since the balance transfer was processed. Mr T also says that 
asking his other creditor to send the funds back would take his balance over the limit 
on his other card which would effectively be shifting the problem.
I acknowledge we dont have copies of Mr Ts statements for his other card to verify 
this information. However, Ive considered that HSBC told this service that the other 
creditor noted that there were insufficient funds in the account when HSBC tried to 
recall the payment initially. Ive not been provided with anything to persuade me 
Mr Ts situation has improved since and, on balance, I find that Mr Ts testimony 
about his circumstances most likely accurate in that he doesnt have the money 
available to repay HSBC.
There isnt a straightforward solution to the issue at hand. Mr T borrowed money 
which hes had the benefit of, so I think its fair he pays this back. That said, hes 
been clear about his current circumstances meaning that paying on demand would 
put him in a worse position. Ive considered that HSBC did treat the second payment 
as a balance transfer, which means it wont incur interest for some months from now. 
However, the outstanding balance still exceeds the credit limit on the card.
In the absence of a clear and concise resolution to this matter, my provisional 
decision is to intend to require HSBC to rework the account as though the second 
payment never debited it, which will include refunding charges and associated 
interest, and removing any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file. Im also 
intending to direct HSBC to reset Mr Ts credit limit to match the outstanding balance 
amount to prevent further charges moving forward. And, I think HSBC should reduce 
the credit limit as the outstanding balance reduces. When the promotional offer 
comes to an end, HSBC can start to apply contractual interest. And, to be clear, I 
think its fair that Mr T continues to make minimum repayments towards the balance 
in line with his contractual agreement.
HSBC has already acknowledged the impact of the matter on Mr T and has offered to 
pay him £100 compensation for this. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the overall circumstances of this complaint.My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to do the 
following, within 30 days of Mr T accepting my final decision:
Rework the account as if the second payment never debited it, which will   
include refunding all charges as a direct result of this, and any associated 
interest.
Remove all adverse information as a result of this matter from Mr Ts credit 
file.
From the next statement production date, HSBC should have reset Mr Ts 
credit limit to broadly the same as his current outstanding balance, to prevent 
further overlimit charges and adverse information on his credit file.
HSBC should accept minimum payments from Mr T towards the balance and 
it should reduce the credit limit as the outstanding balance reduces.
When the promotional balance transfer offer ends, HSBC can start to apply 
contractual interest to the entire balance, if it chooses to do so.
HSBC should pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr T responded to say, while he had some reservations, he thought my provisional decision 
was fair. HSBC didnt object to my provisional decision and, in summary, confirmed it was 
able to take the action I said needed to be taken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr T and HSBC havent objected to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from it. I will, however, briefly address some of Mr Ts concerns about the redress.
Mr T is concerned HSBC will ask him to pay more than minimum payments, which hell 
struggle to afford. As my provisional decision said HSBC should accept minimum payments 
from Mr T towards the balance, Im satisfied this has been covered. For completeness, 
minimum payments should be calculated as per the credit agreement. 
Mr T says he was recently told the debt has been passed to a third-party debt collection 
company. This is a new development and its unclear to me if this company is administering 
the debt on behalf of HSBC, or if it has purchased the debt. In either case, HSBC should 
ensure it does not prevent the steps (as set out in my provisional decision) necessary to 
resolve this complaint.
Therefore, in summary, HSBC should rework the account as though the second payment 
never debited it, which will include refunding charges and associated interest, and removing 
any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file. I also direct HSBC to reset Mr Ts credit limit 
to match the outstanding balance amount to prevent further charges moving forward. And HSBC should reduce the credit limit as the outstanding balance reduces. When the 
promotional offer comes to an end, HSBC can start to apply contractual interest. And I think 
its fair that Mr T continues to make minimum repayments towards the balance in line with 
his contractual agreement.
HSBC has already acknowledged the impact of the matter on Mr T and has offered to pay 
him £100 compensation for this. Having considered the impact of this matter, including the 
worry and concern it would have caused Mr T, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the overall circumstances of this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to do the following, within 30 days of Mr T accepting my final decision: 
Rework the account as if the second payment never debited it, which will include 
refunding all charges as a direct result of this, and any associated interest.
Remove all adverse information as a result of this matter from Mr Ts credit file.
From the next statement production date, HSBC should have reset Mr Ts credit limit 
to broadly the same as his current outstanding balance, to prevent further overlimit 
charges and adverse information on his credit file.
HSBC should accept minimum payments from Mr T towards the balance and it 
should reduce the credit limit as the outstanding balance reduces.
When the promotional balance transfer offer ends, HSBC can start to apply 
contractual interest to the entire balance, if it chooses to do so.
HSBC should pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman