The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly closed his credit card 
account.
What happened
Mr G says Halifax wrote to him and said it was closing his credit card account. He says that 
decision was unfair and doesn't take into account his good credit rating or that he didn't miss 
a payment. Mr G says he would have used the account and asked if he could keep the 
account open, but Halifax refused. He would like the account re-opened.
Halifax says it acted in line with account terms and conditions by giving 60 days notice that it 
intended to close Mr G's account. It says Mr G last made a purchase using the account in 
June 2018 and the last payment was in November 2018.
Mr G brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Halifax had acted in line with account terms and conditions and wasn't 
obliged to keep the account open.
Mr G doesn't agree with that view and says the decision is not consistent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr G will be disappointed by 
my decision. 
I have looked at the account terms and conditions that I think Mr G would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions says Halifax can close an 
account by giving 60 days notice. I'm satisfied that is what took place here, and so I don't 
think Halifax made a mistake or acted unfairly. I also think this was an account that hadn't 
been used for some considerable time. And in those circumstances Halifax was entitled to 
review the account, and decide it no longer wished to provide Mr G with a credit facility.
I'm also satisfied it's up to Halifax to decide with whom it decides to have a credit agreement, 
and it's not our role to tell a business that it must provide a credit facility.
Overall I'm satisfied Halifax has acted fairly, and I don't require it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I don't think it matters what Mr G's credit score is or that he 
has not missed a payment, and that it's up to Halifax to decide on these sorts of  lending 
DRN-1741360issues.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman