DRN-4230909
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B made a claim under her home insurance policy after she lost a diamond from her ring. 
But when Admiral looked into the claim it turned it down. This was because there was an 
endorsement under the policy that required the ring to be checked annually as it was worth 
over £5,000 in order to be covered under the policy. And as she hadnt had the ring checked 
it turned down the claim. As Mrs B wasnt happy about this she complained to Admiral and 
then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B and partly upheld her complaint. Although he 
thought the endorsement was clear he thought it produced an unduly harsh outcome in the 
particular circumstances of this case. So he thought Admiral should consider the claim up to 
the specified jewellery limit of £5,000. 
As Admiral didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree the complaint should be partly upheld for predominantly the same 
reasons as our investigator. However, I believe there are additional reasons why the 
complaint should be partly upheld which I will outline. Although I can understand Admirals 
position I think it has produced a harsh outcome in the particular circumstances of this case. 
Ill explain why. 
Mrs B got her ring valued and certified back in 2019 and discussed this with Admiral. It didnt 
want her valuation at that point in time and didnt outline to her that she would need to repeat 
this process on a yearly basis in order to remain on cover. And, importantly in this case, it 
didnt highlight this to Mrs B when it repaired the ring previously which Id expect it to. Ive 
asked Admiral about this while the matter has been with me for consideration, including 
details about the repair and what Mrs B was told about the endorsement at that time. But 
Admiral hasnt responded, and Mrs B has been clear that she was never advised of the 
requirement. 
I would have expected the repair to be long lasting and effective, so Im surprised the repair 
failed so quickly and the stone has been lost. Mrs B has been clear she hasnt worn the ring 
often and that she uses it on special occasions (which is understandable) so it is difficult to 
say the repair was to the standard required. 
Furthermore, Ive looked at the policy documentation and I agree with Mrs B that Admiral 
couldve made the endorsement clearer. Indeed, the policy documentation says under the 
Extra conditions that apply to your Home Insurance (endorsements) section that If 
endorsements apply to your policy, we will tell you about them beforehand and include the 
details in your Home Policy Schedule. Plus, as our investigator has highlighted the 
endorsement section does say If you do not keep to an endorsement we may reduce your 
cover or refuse to pay your claim. And while the endorsement is highlighted in the schedule 
it could be clearer and I havent been provided with any evidence that Admiral made Mrs B 
aware of the endorsement by telling you about them beforehand in addition to including it in 
the policy schedule. 
Given all of this, I agree that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Admiral to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy up to the specified jewellery limit of £5,000. I say this as 
this is in line with the endorsements section of the policy which says Admiral may reduce 
your cover  which feels fairest in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy up to the specified jewellery limit of £5,000. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman