DRN-2343984
Complaint
Mr B says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
Background
The PPI policy was taken out around the same time Mr B applied for a credit card in 
September 1996.
The policy cost 71p per £100 of Mr Bs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 10% of that 
balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC had to make it clear to Mr B that the policy was optional, and it had to get his consent 
before applying PPI to his account. The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has 
been able to provide much information. Because of this, I need to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened. 
Its unclear how the policy was sold, so Ive thought about what we know about each sales 
method in use around the time. I havent seen anything to make me think HSBC would not 
have presented the policy as being optional or that it would not have got Mr Bs consent 
before applying PPI to his account. Mr B hasnt said that he didnt know the policy was in 
place or that he didnt know it was optional. So, I think its more likely than not Mr B was 
aware he had a choice about taking the PPI and that he chose to take it at the time.
Mr B and HSBC dont know whether he received any advice. And as I mentioned previously, 
neither party can confirm how the policy was sold. So, Ive thought about what I know of 
sales methods used by HSBC around the time. Im aware that for some sales, such as those 
conducted during a meeting at a branch, HSBC would usually have given advice. So, in 
fairness to Mr B, Ive reviewed the sale as though HSBC did give him advice. This puts more 
responsibility on HSBC to check the policy was suitable for Mr B, in addition to giving him 
enough information about the policy so he could decide whether to take it or not. 
Based on what Mr Bs told us about his circumstances at the time, I think the policy was 
suitable for him and I dont think better information would have changed his decision to take 
the policy.
I say this because Mr B was eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the things that might have made it harder for him to claim on the policy, 
such as having a pre-existing medical condition, or unusual employment circumstances.
Mr B says he would have received at least six months full pay from his employer if he was 
off sick from work. He also says he had life insurance and regular savings in the form of 
shares with his employer at the time of sale. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Bs said, but life insurance provides a different type of 
protection to PPI  Mr B would not have been able to rely on this type of policy to make his 
credit card repayments if he lost his job or was too unwell to work. 
Mr B has provided different information about the level of savings he held, so its not 
completely clear how much he had or how long this would have lasted him. In any case, I 
think its likely he would have wanted to avoid a situation where hed need to use his shares 
just to cover his credit card repayments. 
The policy would have paid out on top of any sick pay Mr B received from his employer and 
potentially for longer. So, considering the cost and benefit of the policy  I think Mr B could 
have found the cover useful if he fell on hard times.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr B at the time.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr B about the terms and cost of the policy wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable 
for Mr B, I think its unlikely he would have made a different decision if better information had 
been given to him. And Mr B could have cancelled the policy at any time without further cost 
if his circumstances changed.
So, I dont think HSBC was wrong to recommend the policy to Mr B and I dont think the PPI 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman