DRN-3772194
The complaint
Mr E has complained about a default registered by Arrow Global Limited.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account that was opened in 2012 and was sold to 
Arrow in 2019. The original creditor and Arrow wrote to Mr E to let him know Arrow now 
owned the account, and Mr E started paying Arrow instead.
In May 2020, Mr E stopped his payments and disputed the account, saying he didnt owe it. 
He asked for copies of key documents. In September 2020, Arrow sent him copies of the 
accounts key documents.
In January 2021, Arrow sent Mr E a termination notice. They continued not to receive any 
payments, so they went on to default the account.
Mr E complained. He said he didnt recognise the debt, and felt that Arrow had refused to 
prove it. He alternately said that he either didnt get the documents theyd sent, or that he did 
get them but he felt they werent good enough. He felt the default was unfair. And he was 
unhappy that one of his emails in January 2021 hadnt got a response. He had also 
previously complained about Arrows use of a debt collection agency, and about what he felt 
was harassment.
Arrow apologised for overlooking the email and offered Mr E £50 compensation for that. 
They otherwise felt theyd acted reasonably.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They found that Arrow had broadly acted 
fairly, except they thought Arrow should have defaulted the account slightly earlier.
Mr E didnt agree. He felt that because Arrow had made two mistakes  registering the 
default date a bit late and overlooking an email  it meant he should win. He now said hed 
never got Arrows key letters. He said hed paid off all his debts in an insolvency. He also 
said he now accepts the debt is his, but wants the default removed.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I will note that we cannot consider the content of Mr Es previous, older complaint  
about Arrows use of a debt collection agency, and about the alleged harassment  as he 
brought this to our service more than six months after the final response to that complaint. 
And Im afraid that means we dont have the power to consider those points.
I can see that Mr E raised some questions about how debt purchasers and debt collection 
agencies work. So in case its helpful, I will clarify that generally speaking it is normal and 
allowed for a debt purchaser like Arrow to appoint a debt collection agency like NCO to help 
manage the debt for them. And its also normal for the debt collector to refer back to the debt 
purchaser when a customer asks for key documents. Arrow did not need new or separate 
notices of assignment in order to appoint debt collectors. A notice of assignment is for when 
a debt gets sold on, not for when the debt owner employs collection agency to help them.
I will now move on to the complaint points that I can consider.
Regarding the dispute, I can see that Mr E now accepts this was his debt, and Im glad we 
could help put that question to rest for him. But Im afraid I also think Mr E was given enough 
evidence that this was his debt much earlier on. Back in 2020, Arrow sent him a copy of his 
electronic credit agreement which matched his details, his transaction history showing his 
historic spending and how the balance got to where it was, and his notice of assignment 
where the original creditor confirmed theyd sold Mr Es account to Arrow. 
Mr E now says he didnt get these. But earlier in his complaint, he confirmed more than once 
that he did get these documents  he just didnt think they were good enough as he felt they 
were vague and hastily put together. And I can see from Arrows records that they were 
sent to his correct address, even if they werent sent by recorded delivery (and recorded 
delivery was not in any sense a requirement). So I think he did get them. And despite Mr Es 
misgivings, these documents were sufficient to show this was a valid debt. They were what 
Arrow was required to send to evidence the debt; the references, amounts, and details 
matched up; and I cannot see anything in the documents which should have reasonably 
given Mr E the impression that this was anyone elses account rather than his.
Further, this was a credit card which Mr E had used for quite a lot of spending over a number 
of years, which hed then arranged a repayment plan for, and which hed been making 
regular payments to for a very long time. And following the original notice of assignment, 
where the original lender told him theyd sold the debt to Arrow, he then started paying Arrow 
instead of the original lender, making payments until May 2020. So it looks like Mr E would 
have been aware that this was a genuine account of his, and it looks like hed accepted it 
was his as he was paying it off for a long time.
Lastly, while I can see that Mr E did indeed go through an insolvency, that insolvency ended 
long before he first took out this credit card. This credit card was not included in that 
insolvency and was not written off. The debt remains outstanding.
So I am satisfied that this was a genuine debt of Mr Es. And I think Mr E was sufficiently 
aware that this was a genuine debt of his by September 2020 at the latest, when he was 
provided with the key documents, which he previously confirmed he received.Mr E had broken his payment arrangement, and was continuing to withhold payments. This 
gave Arrow more than sufficient grounds to default him. Arrow sent him the appropriate 
notice, which again Im satisfied they sent to the correct address, and again for which 
recorded delivery was not a requirement. Mr E continued not to make payment, so Arrow 
defaulted him. While I appreciate that Mr E is most unhappy with the default, I find that 
default to be fair.
Indeed, like our investigator, I think Arrow could  and arguably should  have defaulted 
Mr E even earlier. Due to his reduced payment arrangement, he was in very substantial 
arrears compared to his contractual minimum payments. And he broke his payment 
arrangement in May 2020. So really, he should ideally have been defaulted by September 
2020, by which point he was three months behind on his reduced payment arrangement. It 
follows that I think Arrow should backdate the default to then. This may make things look a 
bit better for Mr E, as the default will be older and will not stay on his credit file for as long.
The only other thing I can see Arrow got wrong is forgetting to reply to an email in January 
2021. But I dont find that this was particularly significant. From what I can see, Mr E was 
asking about enforcement action. This was not relevant, as enforcement action could only be 
taken if Arrow had taken him to court, which they hadnt. Mr E also asked Arrow to provide 
further documents, which they didnt need to do as theyd already provided the required 
documents in September 2020. An earlier reply to this email does not seem likely to have 
made a significant difference to what happened. And indeed, per the above, had things gone 
as they should have, Arrow would have already defaulted Mr E back in September 2020  
rendering any emails after that even less relevant to the default.
Arrow have apologised for overlooking that email and offered Mr E £50 compensation. I think 
that is sufficient to put that right.
So as Mr E pointed out, Arrow did indeed make a couple of mistakes. But Im afraid that 
does not mean that the default should be removed. The default is fair, as Mr E had not been 
making the payments he needed to  the default should just have been registered a bit 
earlier, which can simply be adjusted now. And the overlooked email would not have had a 
significant impact on the default, so the apology and compensation are enough to put that 
right. Its worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve complaints informally  were not 
here to punish businesses or issue fines for making small mistakes. So while I know this will 
not be the outcome Mr E is hoping for, I dont think any further award is warranted here.
Putting things right
I direct Arrow Global Limited to:
Backdate the default to September 2020;
Pay Mr E the £50 compensation they offered, if theyve not done so already.
I do not make any further award.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I direct Arrow Global Limited to put things right in the way 
I set out above.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman