DRN-2349386
The complaint
Mr W complains that Pension Works Limited (Pension Works) didnt consider his objectives 
after they discussed whether he should transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
benefits. He said Pension Works would have known at that time that it couldnt assist him in 
taking out a drawdown plan and should have declined his business. He says this would have 
saved him the cost of the report and the cost of obtaining a new Cash Equivalent Transfer 
Value (CETV), which was much lower. He wants to be compensated for these losses. 
What happened
Mr W held deferred benefits in his employers Defined Benefit OPS. In response to his 
request Mr W received a discharge pack, including the CETV, from the OPS administrator 
on 24 September 2019. The CETV was noted as £319,691 and was guaranteed for three 
months. The letter outlined some of Mr Ws retirement options, so he spoke with Pension 
Works, whod been recommended to him, to discuss his preferences with a view to 
transferring the OPS benefits. 
Mr W sent Pension Works the letter hed received from the OPS and the process began with 
Pension Works requesting further information from the scheme trustees. When this was 
received Pension Works arranged a telephone fact find meeting with Mr W for
25 October 2019. During this meeting Pension Works gathered information about Mr Ws 
situation and he set out the objectives he wanted to achieve. He explained that he wanted to 
retain control of his funds and was looking to buy his wifes share of their property so he 
could own it outright. He said his preference was to transfer to a drawdown arrangement.
After Pension Works had received Mr Ws payment it began to produce its report  although 
it needed to revert to the scheme administrator for more information on two further 
occasions. Pension Works carried out an analysis of Mr Ws OPS against several different 
models but concluded that it wasnt in his best interest to transfer  which it explained in the 
suitability report it sent Mr W on 9 December 2019. This left Mr W 15 days to decide what to 
do before his CETV expired. But as he was out of the country by that time, he said wasnt 
able to discuss matters with Pension Works on the telephone until after 31 December 2019.
 
The CETV subsequently expired and Mr W found out that he would have to obtain a new 
one at a cost of £300 and without any guarantee that the CETV wouldnt have fallen. So, in 
December 2019 Mr W complained to Pension Works. He made the following points:
The advice he received from Pension Works was contrary to what hed asked for 
during his initial conversation with it. He said he wanted to retire at 59 and didnt want 
to leave a legacy behind, but neither objective was accounted for in the report.
He wanted all his documents returned so that he could find a more suitable adviser.
He hadnt been told that his CETV would expire after three months and now faced a 
bill for an updated one.
He would complain further if any new CETV he requested had fallen.
Hed already paid £500 to Pension Works for a report which didnt match his 
objectives. 
Pension Works didnt uphold the complaint and made the following points in support of its 
recommendation:
Its analysis showed that Mr W would exhaust his fund in a drawdown arrangement by 
age 82. As Mr W was in good health there was reason to suppose he would live 
beyond that age.
It recommended Mr W continued working to age 62 to ensure he had sufficient 
income before his state pension began. But it also provided analysis for taking the 
pension at age 59. 
It had a duty of care to balance Mr Ws objective of retaining control of his pension 
pot with ensuring the sustainability of his income.
Mr W had been advised that his CETV had an expiry date of three months after it 
was issued. If further CETVs are required within 12 months the scheme 
administrators usually charge a fee. The report was completed with 15 days of the 
deadline remaining which allowed Mr W time to chart his own course of action. The 
main delays in providing information were caused by the scheme administrators, so 
Pension Works didnt think it was responsible for Mr W having to pay £300 for a new 
CETV (which was significantly lower). 
It isnt always possible to establish that a transfer might not be suitable during a first 
telephone conversation without running an analysis of the comparable benefits.
Pension Works provided details of three different scenarios to help determine the 
most suitable course of action.
Its advice was based on Mr Ws individual circumstances and was designed to 
recommend the best course of action.
Mr W didnt agree with that outcome and brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into matter. She said that Mr Ws complain shouldnt be upheld. She 
thought Mr W had been made aware of the expiry date of the CETV so didnt think Pension 
Works was responsible for Mr W having to pay for a further report. She also thought that 
Pension Works had issued its report in a reasonable timescale and noted that, if Mr W hadnt 
been away when it was produced, he may have had time to progress the transfer himself, 
despite the recommendation not to transfer. And she concluded that Pension Works advice 
was ultimately reasonable, but couldnt have been known at the time it initially spoke to Mr W 
until it then completed a full analysis of his situation.  
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed clearly explained what he wanted when he first spoke with 
Pension Works and thought drawdown was his best option. He didnt think any other option 
was feasible. He thought Pension Works should have realised that it couldnt help him at that 
point and refused to take things further and referred him to another adviser. He thought it 
was unfair that Pension Works continued with its process but didnt take into account any of 
his objectives.
The investigator said shed listened to the initial conversation Mr W had with Pension Works 
and she didnt think there was any suggestion that Pension Works would only provide a 
positive (to transfer) recommendation. She said Pension Works simply wouldnt have been 
able to say with any certainty what its recommendation would be without completing its 
analysis.
Mr W said the recommendation hed received was the opposite of what he said he wanted 
from Pension Works. He said he was disappointed with the outcome and asked for his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that Pension Works hasnt done anything wrong 
here. I know this is an outcome that will disappoint Mr W, so Ill explain my reasons. 
The CETV deadline
In September 2019 Mr W received a letter from scheme administrator, including the transfer 
discharge forms and CETV, which said the value was guaranteed until 24 December 2019  
three months after the date of the letter.
So, Ive created a timeline of events thereafter to consider if Pension Works caused any 
delays which led the CETV to expire.
When Mr W provided the transfer information to Pension Works it began the process of 
requesting the necessary transfer paperwork from the scheme administrator. On 
4 October 2019 it made Mr W aware of that as well as acknowledging the information he had 
provided about his scheme. As the information was returned by 11 October a fact find call 
was arranged with the adviser for 25 October 2019.  
On 1 November 2019 the adviser contacted Mr W to remind him of the outstanding 
information that was required  including payment for the report. This was received by 
4 November 2019 when Pension Works confirmed it would assess all of Mr Ws information 
and produce its report. On 20 November 2019 Pension Works asked the scheme 
administrator to confirm the split of protected and non-protected rights values and on 
3 December 2019 it asked for some further missing information. 
By 9 December 2019 Pension Works had issued Mr Ws report to him by email. Mr W said 
he wanted to arrange a telephone meeting to clarify some things but was unable to do so 
until 31 December 2019. 
So, looking at the timeline, I dont think Pension Works was responsible for any significant 
delays in issuing the report. I think the fact find call was arranged within a couple of weeks of 
Pension Works being provided with the information from the other pension providers and the 
final report was provided within five weeks of Mr Ws payment for the report. Considering 
over half of that time was spent waiting for further information from the scheme administrator 
I think Pension Works did what it said it would in a timely manner. 
I havent seen any evidence of a guarantee from Pension Works about how long its service 
might take, although I think it would have been aware of the schemes expiry date from the 
CETV, which it ought to have considered as part of its process. However, Im not aware of 
any deadlines that were imposed by the regulator on these type of transfers  so I cant 
safely say that Pension Works did anything wrong. And Im not persuaded that it was 
responsible for any delays.
Should Pension Works have just transacted Mr Ws request?
Pension Works is an authorised regulated firm which specialised in pensions. Its terms of 
business document, which was sent to Mr W in August 2019, set out the service it offered 
with regards to OPS reviews. It said our defined benefit (DB) review service will assess the 
suitability of your defined benefit/final salary pension and whether it is in your best interest to transfer your pension. During the DB review service, we will produce a report (charged at 
£495) that will outline your current pension along with detailed cash-flow projection to display 
what your retirement could look like if you transfer your DB into a defined contributions 
pension Vs taking the income directly from the scheme.  
I think this was a clear statement from Pension Works which didnt make any guarantees 
about the outcome of the process, simply that it would assess whether it was appropriate to 
transfer or not, based on its analysis. It set out the charge for its work and agreed to produce 
a report as a result  which would confirm its recommendation.
And I think thats what Pension Works ultimately did here. It spoke with Mr W to ascertain his 
circumstances, including what he saw as his main objectives, and then it provided an 
analysis of his OPS pension which demonstrated that it was in his best interests to remain 
within the scheme  as principally it would mean he was better off financially as a result. 
There were obviously a number of other factors that needed to be considered when deciding 
whether to transfer but, in my view, the most important factor would have been the 
retirement income Mr W was likely to receive from his OPS compared to transferring to a 
personal pension arrangement  such as drawdown. 
I think the other factors are less important when making a recommendation, even though to 
Mr W they may have seemed like the most important factors. Ive seen how strongly Mr W 
feels that not leaving any money in his plan on his death and retaining control of funds to 
purchase his own property outright were to him. But that doesnt mean Pension Works report 
was wrong or should have focused purely on those objectives  its job was to provide an 
independent professional recommendation based on the information it gathered. 
As Pension Works explained in the same terms of business document Pension Works will 
only implement a transfer if one of our advisers has recommended it following the report. We 
do not act on execution only basis, meaning that we will not implement any transfer based 
on your instruction, that is against our advice and recommendation. If you chose to switch or 
transfer a pension contrary to our advice and recommendations, Pension Works accepts no 
responsibility for this action.
So, Mr W was free to seek advice elsewhere if he wasnt happy with Pension Works report 
or he could have asked it to sign the adviser statement that was included within the 
discharge pack. He could then have approached the trustees directly to transfer, although 
this meant he would have to arrange and set up the drawdown plan himself.
Mr W has referred to his initial conversation with Pension Works when he said he set out his 
objectives and made it clear what he wanted to achieve. He said Pension Works should 
have told him that it wasnt able to assist, and he could have found another adviser who was 
more in tune with his needs. And I have some sympathy with Mr Ws position here if he 
simply wanted something to be set up along the lines of his request. Ive listened carefully to 
the conversation he had with Pension Works where he said that he was looking for a 
flexible drawdown would rather have more control over my funds and buying his wife 
out (of their property). When asked how he would feel if he couldnt have a flexible income, 
he said he would be disappointed. So, I dont under estimate quite how much Mr W had 
considered his options in line with his circumstances, and that he was quite sure drawdown 
would be his best alternative. 
But equally during that same call, the adviser said that, as regulated advisers we have a 
duty of care to make sure this is the right thing for you to be doing. He then outlined all the 
factors that are taken into consideration before making a recommendation and set out 
Pension Works process  explaining what it proposed to do. He said, even if we tell you the 
transfer isnt the right thing to be doing. Mr W said that he was open to all options its just 
getting the right one. So, as much as I accept that Mr W did have strong views about his objectives, Pension Works also set out it process and confirmed that it might not make the 
recommendation Mr W desired, if it wasnt appropriate.
Pension Works had no idea at the time of the initial call that drawdown wouldnt be a suitable 
recommendation for Mr W as it hadnt gathered enough information about the OPS. It was 
only after this analysis had been completed that Pension Works could have said with any 
confidence that it couldnt recommend Mr W should transfer his OPS benefits.
I dont think Pension Works should simply have carried out the request Mr W made without 
conducting its analysis. Initially I dont think it was able to either guarantee Mr W that he 
should transfer or to tell him that it couldnt help, based on the limited information it gathered. 
It seems to me that Pension Works carried out the work it said it would do in order to be able 
to give Mr W the most appropriate advice.
Pension Works suitability report/advice
But even though I think Pension Works acted fairly by presenting Mr W with its own 
recommendation and not simply transacting a transfer in line with his objectives, I have also 
considered the suitability of the advice. Mr W has said that he disagreed with the advice and 
that the report was based on circumstances that didnt apply to him or objectives that hed 
told Pension Works he didnt want to be considered  such as retiring at age 59, not 62 as 
the report was based upon. So Ive looked carefully at the fact find that was conducted as 
well as the suitability report that was subsequently issued.
Within the fact find I can see that Pension Works clearly set out Mr Ws objectives. And 
these are very consistent with what Mr W told it during his initial conversation. It even noted 
that Mr W had said he would be disappointed if he couldnt transfer the scheme benefits. 
So Im satisfied that Pension Works had listened to Mr W when he had explained his 
objectives and had taken them into consideration when undertaking its analysis. 
Looking at the pension report, it stated that its purpose was to give an indication of the 
likelihood of being able to match or exceed the benefits provided by your existing scheme 
with a transfer to an alternative plan based on a set of assumptions. The report was quite 
technical in nature and provided numerous outcomes  principally at age 65 and 55. But the 
two main conclusions the report reached was that it would cost Mr W an extra £418,486.67 
to get the same income from a personal arrangement than his OPS. And, it would require an 
investment return of nearly 10% from a personal arrangement to match the OPS benefits. 
For an agreed low risk investor like Mr W those returns would be unrealistic at best.
 
So, based on that information, I think it would be extremely difficult not to recommend 
against the transfer. The regulators default position on OPS transfers is that advice should 
be not to transfer, unless there are compelling reasons to do so. I havent seen any evidence 
that Mr Ws objectives, whilst they needed to be taken into consideration, were compelling. 
Indeed, Mr W said his main objective was to withdraw tax free cash so that he could buy out 
his wifes share of their property when they became divorced. But he also said that this 
wasnt certain to happen, and they would see how it goes next year. 
So, it didnt seem that there was a pressing reason for Mr W to transfer the pension and 
drawdown his tax free cash. On that basis I think he could have waited until the situation was 
much clearer.
There were clearly other factors that needed to be considered with this transfer, and Mr Ws 
desire to use up all his funds before his death and to have control over his funds were 
relevant to the situation. Mr W was adamant that he wanted a drawdown plan in his initial 
conversation. But Pension Works wouldnt have known if it could provide Mr W with what he wanted until it completed its analysis and report. Unfortunately for Mr W the report showed 
that a transfer wouldnt have been in his best interest and he would have been significantly 
worse off, so Pension Works gave suitable advice in those circumstances.
 
I know Mr W said that his objectives werent taken into account  for example with regards to 
his wish to retire and draw benefits from age 59. But Ive seen that this age was used in 
some of the modelling, such as when certain income and expenditure would cease. 
However, Pension Works primarily based its analysis on retirement at age 55 and 65 which 
showed that the transfer wasnt in Mr Ws best interest. Providing an analysis at other ages 
would simply have reinforced the same conclusion as the cost of matching the OPS benefits 
would have been even higher the earlier Mr W retired.
Pension Works set out its reasons for not recommending the transfer clearly in the report. 
The reasons were that Mr W could achieve his objectives from the OPS and that he would 
be worse off by transferring. Mr Ws objectives, as clearly outlined by him in the initial call, 
were set out and had been taken into account within Pension Works report. But I think the 
recommendation would have been the same regardless of whether further modelling had 
been carried out solely to include Mr Ws objectives. 
The fees involved
Pension Works terms of business document said that the Defined Benefit Review Service 
will produce a report (charged at £495) that will outline your current pension along with a 
detailed cash-flow projection to display what your retirement could look like if you transfer 
your DB into a defined contribution pension vs taking the income directly from the scheme. 
So I think Pension Works made it clear what it would charge to produce a report and what it 
aimed to do during its review. I havent seen any evidence that it said the outcome would 
necessarily result in a recommendation to transfer. And looking at the report it produced, I 
think Pension Works did what it said it would do in return for its fee.
Mr W says he wasnt made aware of the expiry date of the CETV or that another report 
would be required  at a cost- if the CETV did expire before he could transfer. So Ive looked 
carefully at the information that Mr W was provided with in relation to his CETV and I think 
he was made aware that it would expire from three months after the date on the letter. The 
expiry date was also written in bold within the letter.  And Ive also seen further in the 
information pack that the trustee will provide another transfer quote within 12 months of the 
last written request for a fee. The charge for this is £250 plus VAT and will have to be paid 
before any figures are sent out.
Mr W says the new CETV was significantly lower by about £16,000 and thinks this is 
Pension Works responsibility. But as Ive already explained I think Pension Works produced 
its report in a timely manner  without any significant delays. I think the fact that Mr W hasnt 
ultimately transferred his scheme benefits is also a key factor here, because no loss has 
crystallised. Mr W, for better or worse, has retained his benefits in the OPS scheme. And so 
theres no actual loss to compensate him for.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman