DRN-2774219
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the level of service he received from Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax, and particularly the way it handled one of his complaints. 
What happened
Mr S phoned Halifax on 10 July 2010 as he wished to transfer funds out of a savings 
account. Mr S was unhappy with the way the call handler spoke with him, including saying 
his name incorrectly and being argumentative. The call ended before Mr S was able to 
complete his transaction. 
Mr S phoned Halifax the following day to complete his transaction and to raise a complaint 
about the level of service hed received. Mr S was unhappy with the information he was 
given and the way these calls were handled. He said the call handlers put barriers in the way 
of him logging his complaint, which caused him to spend more time than needed on the 
phone. He said he was also incorrectly advised that his complaint had already been logged 
when it hadnt. Mr S said one of the call handlers antagonised him which led to him losing 
his temper and swearing, at which point the call handler laughed at him and terminated the 
call. Mr S felt the call handlers had acted unprofessionally. 
Halifax looked into Mr Ss concerns and issued a final response on 10 September 2020. It 
agreed that mistakes had been made during the calls and Mr S hadnt always received the 
level of service he should have. It offered him £100 compensation to reflect the time hed 
had to wait to have his complaint considered and to reflect that he hadnt always received 
the level of service he should have. But Halifax also warned Mr S about his conduct when 
speaking with its members of staff. It noted Mr S directed foul language at its members of 
staff and so reserved the right to end the banking relationship if Mr S continued to act in this 
way. 
Mr S was unhappy with Halifaxs response and the level of compensation hed been offered. 
He phoned Halifax on 3 October 2020 to discuss this. Halifax agreed to look into Mr Ss 
additional concerns. But when another case handler contacted him it became clear that 
thered been a misunderstanding and the case handler was referring to a separate complaint 
Mr S had made. 
Halifax wrote to Mr S on 26 October 2020 confirming that it had already given him its final 
response concerning the calls in July 2020 and it wouldnt be reviewing its compensation or 
investigating the matter again. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service as he was unhappy with Halifaxs answer. He felt 
£300 compensation would better reflect the problems hed encountered. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied that Halifaxs £100 offer of 
compensation was fair.  He acknowledged thered been some confusion in October 2020 
about which complaint Halifax was looking into. While this had been frustrating for Mr S, our 
investigator was satisfied Halifax had correctly sent him a final response with referral rights 
to our service as it was required to do. It also later wrote to him to confirm that it wouldnt 
revisit this particular complaint. With regard to the phone calls in July 2020, our investigator 
noted that, while Halifaxs call handlers could have handled the calls better, Mr Ss behaviour 
had contributed to the difficulties. 
Mr S didnt think our investigator had understood his complaint, and so he disagreed with his 
findings. 
As theres been no agreement on how to resolve this complaint it has been passed to me to 
consider for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. This includes a number of call recordings between 
Mr S and Halifax. In this decision Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think 
about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision. 
When considering complaints about poor service, my role is not to determine whether the 
business has followed every rule and procedure that may apply. Nor do I aim to detail each 
time a mistake was made. Instead, my role is to consider everything thats happened and 
determine whether I think the business has acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. In doing so I have to consider what impact the businesss actions had on the 
consumer. If a business has sought to resolve the complaint, for example by apologising or 
offering compensation, my role is to consider whether that apology or compensation was 
reasonable in the circumstances. Its not for me, or this service, to punish businesses for 
mistakes, and I wouldnt award compensation where theres been only minor inconvenience 
or upset.  
Its clear from listening to the calls that Mr S wasnt able to complete his transaction or 
resolve his concerns as quickly or as easily as hed hoped. Its also clear the communication 
between Mr S and Halifaxs call handlers broke down on multiple occasions and so calls 
often became unproductive. There were also avoidable errors made by Halifaxs case 
handlers which evidently caused Mr S frustration. 
Halifax accepts that its case handlers made errors and there were times when the level of 
service it offered Mr S was below what it would usually expect. I can see that Mr S was 
inconvenienced by these errors. He had to stay on calls longer than hed have liked and had 
to make follow up calls to clarify certain details. But I cant see Mr S suffered any further 
detriment than this. In relation to the mistaken information, Mr S noted in a subsequent call 
that he knew the answer to his question he just wanted to double check. Whilst it was 
unfortunate that Halifaxs call handler didnt give him the right information about his account, 
I cant see this resulted in him suffering any loss. 
Ive also considered Mr Ss conduct during these calls. I think Halifax was reasonable when 
it said Mr Ss behaviour had been, at times, wholly unacceptable. During a number of calls 
Halifaxs agents sought to understand and clarify the details of Mr Ss complaint. Mr Ss 
responses were often unreasonable and unduly confrontational in the circumstances. I think 
this contributed to the misunderstandings that occurred and also the overall time taken for 
Halifax to try to resolve the complaint.  Considering everything that happened, Im satisfied that Halifaxs offer of £100 
compensation fairly reflects the inconvenience Mr S experienced. So I wont be asking 
Halifax to increase its offer of compensation and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman