DRN-4463583
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with what Zurich Insurance Company Ltd did after they made a 
claim on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have travel insurance with Zurich. In February 2023 they went abroad on a 
six-week holiday. During their trip they needed to get a ferry which theyd pre-booked. 
However, the sailing they were due to take was cancelled as was a rescheduled one. As no 
further sailing were available within a reasonable time Mr and Mrs H incurred costs in 
booking a flight, alternative accommodation and car hire to try and keep to their pre-planned 
itinerary. 
Mr and Mrs H claimed on their travel insurance for those additional costs. Zurich turned 
down the claim as it said this wasnt something their policy covered. However, it accepted 
there had been some customer service issues in the handling of the claim and offered to pay 
Mr and Mrs H £75 in recognition of the impact of that on them. 
Our investigator agreed the policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs Hs claim. In particular while it did 
cover travel delay and abandonment that only applied to departure point delays to or from 
the policyholders home country. He thought the £75 Zurich had offered was the right 
amount in relation to its customer service failings. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted their claim wasnt covered but didnt think that in itself was fair. They 
said theyd taken out a comprehensive policy and could reasonably expect to be covered for 
what happened. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Zurich has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Hs pre-booked ferry and the efforts they then 
made to keep their holiday on track must have been extremely stressful. Im pleased to see 
that (after significant effort) they were able to complete most of the rest of their trip. 
But the question I need to consider is whether Zurich has correctly and fairly in turning down 
the claim they made for additional expenses incurred as a result of the ferry cancellation. Ive 
looked at the terms and condition of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and I agree theres simply no 
cover for what happened. 
As our investigator said the Travel delay and abandonment section of the policy only 
provides cover where your outward or return flights, sea crossing, coach or train departure 
to or from your home country are delayed for more than 24 hours beyond the intended 
departure time (as specified on your travel ticket) as a result of a specified incident. But that 
doesnt apply here because the ferry cancellation took place after Mr and Mrs H had arrived 
in their destination; it wasnt part of their outward or return journey. I dont think theres any 
other part of the policy which would provide cover for Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances either.
And I think thats accepted by them. I appreciate their argument is that having taken out a 
comprehensive policy they think it should provide cover for this. But no insurance policy will 
cover every eventuality and cover is always subject to the terms and conditions of the policy. 
In general an insurer is entitled to decide which risks it wants to cover and which it doesnt. 
Thats part of every insurers commercial discretion and, as long as this information is clearly 
set out in the policy documents (which I think it is in this case), its not something wed 
normally interfere with.
I also think its reasonable to say if the policy had extended cover to Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances that would have impacted on the price of the policy. I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to expect Zurich to pay for a claim that isnt covered and for which it didnt 
charge a premium. 
I do agree there were some customer service failings by Zurich when handling this claim. I 
appreciate that will have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs H and I can see they had to chase 
for updates on a number of occasions. But taking into account the impact that will have had 
on them I think the £75 that Zurich has offered for this is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Zurich Insurance Company Ltd has already offered to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Zurich should pay 
Mr and Mrs H £75
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman