DRN-3820534
The complaint
Mr B complains about an endowment savings plan with profits sold to him by Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited in 2002 when it was trading under a different business name. To keep 
things simpler, Ill just refer to Aviva as the business that sold the plan. 
Mr B says the product paperwork was mis-leading and to put things right he wants 
compensation.
What happened
Mr B took out the Bonus CashBuilder Plus policy (the plan) in June 2002. In return for 
paying in regular premiums which Aviva would invest, the plan offered Mr B the potential to 
grow his wealth over the next 15 years and included a guaranteed death benefit.
Mr B had initially invested £240 quarterly and the premium escalated by 20% annually for 
the first five years. Mr B surrendered the plan after just four years in May 2006 when his 
circumstances changed and he could no longer afford to pay the regular premiums, which 
were now £384 per quarter. He received back £2,496.72. 
Some years later, Mr B was prompted to make contact with a claims management company 
(CMC) and this led to him complaining to Aviva that hed been mis-sold the plan. Having 
discussed things with the CMC, Mr B had come to believe that the information supplied to 
him at the time had not been clear, fair and not-misleading and he felt he hadnt been 
sufficiently alerted at the point of sale to key facts regarding the plan, which would have 
made it clear that it was not suitable for his circumstances.
Aviva did not uphold his complaint. It said that Mr B had taken out the plan on a direct sale 
basis where no advice was given, the policy literature had been provided to Mr B and it was 
up to him to decide whether or not the policy was suitable for his requirements.
Mr B disagreed with Aviva and referred his complaint to our service through the CMC.
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate complaints 
about events that happened more than six years ago so our investigator first considered 
whether the complaint was within our jurisdiction. 
Aviva consented to us looking at this complaint so our investigator proceeded to consider the 
merits of Mr Bs complaint that the product paperwork did not provide a clear picture of the 
product, its advantages, or its disadvantages.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. She was satisfied no advice had been 
given by the business and she thought the information provided was clear, fair and not 
misleading. She felt the policy documentation had made clear that total returns werent 
guaranteed, bonuses were discretionary and premiums would increase. She saw nothing in 
the product literature that was sent to Mr B which suggested premiums would not increase or 
that bonuses were guaranteed. She was not persuaded that Aviva had misled Mr B in 
relation to how much he would receive at the end of the term.
Mr B disagreed and felt that key issues in his detailed complaint had been overlooked. In 
summary, the CMC said:
the investigators conclusion focused on the fact the minimum level of return may 
have been mentioned. That alone didnt show that the paperwork was clear, fair and 
not misleading.
the paperwork was misleading as the firm had subsequently advised that the 
comparative return table had falsely shown the product massively exceeding the 
return from building society accounts rather than the much smaller difference there 
actually was
this amended illustration itself was no more accurate in reflecting the actual returns 
that could have been obtained through savings accounts and the level term 
endowment comparison failed to explain that almost double the premiums had been 
paid into the plan
when the firm chose to include the illustrations and images in their advertisement 
they had a duty to ensure these were accurate, clear and wouldnt mislead people. 
The fact they may have mentioned a minimum term doesnt absolve the firm of the 
responsibility to ensure the information given elsewhere which induced people to 
invest was also accurate.
Mr B asked for his complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman so it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he was mis-sold the plan because the information about 
it was misleading. 
Aviva said that it did not give Mr B any advice about the policy, which is confirmed on the 
personal illustration sent to Mr B. So, I am satisfied that this was a non advised sale. That 
means I dont have to consider whether the policy was suitable for Mr B but whether or not 
the information provided to him by the business was clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr Bs initial complaint was made based on information in product documentation it appears 
the CMC had in its possession which it said it understood would have been sent to Mr B.
But the paperwork the CMC sent us looks like sample documentation dating back some 
months before Mr B signed up for the plan. The offer letter, which explains some of the main 
plan features and encloses the application form to apply for the plan, isnt addressed to Mr B 
but to Mr Sample, 1,Sample Street, Sampleshire. A version of the Key Features leaflet 
which explains the plan in more detail has handwritten amendments marked on and Aviva 
said this wasnt the final version of the brochure. A personalised version of the product Key 
Features says it is prepared Exclusively for Mr A Sample and is incomplete. The plan 
leaflet, again with handwritten notations, is stamped and dated to suggest this was draft 
documentation being considered for approval in November 2001.
So, this isnt enough to persuade me its likely that Mr B would have been misled by this 
paperwork because I havent seen enough to show that he wouldve seen it before he took 
out the plan. 
Aviva said Mr B would have been sent a personalised version of the product Key Features 
before he could apply for a policy and that Mr B would have relied on the information in this document when making the decision to complete the application and take out a Bonus 
CashBuilder. 
Mr B subsequently provided to us his own point of sale paperwork, including his welcome 
letter (which set out details of the plan and referred to enclosing the policy document) and 
also a personalised version of the product Key Features. So Ive been able to see important 
information Mr B would have relied on when he was choosing whether or not he felt this was 
a suitable investment for him  which was up to him to decide. 
Aviva was required to ensure information it provided to Mr B was clear, fair and not mis-
leading, so he could make a properly informed decision. 
Having considered all the policy documentation available, I find Aviva met this requirement 
and it sent Mr B information that was clear, fair and not mis-leading. 
I am satisfied that it made clear to Mr B that this was a with-profits endowment assurance 
with life cover that offered him growth potential over the next 15 years, with a return 
dependent on how much he paid into the policy, how long he held it for and how well his 
investment performed. 
In particular, Im satisfied its made clear that total returns werent guaranteed  the 
personalised Key Features document gives examples of what Mr B might get back after 
15 years (using industry standard growth figures for comparison) and says: These are only 
examples and are not guaranteed. These are not minimum or maximum amounts; what you 
get back depends on how investments grow. You could get back more or less than this.
This information is also shown in the Key Features document Aviva says Mr B would have 
seen which lists Risk Factors in bold print and says: The amount you get back will depend 
on (Avivas) investment performance.
Another risk factor also mentioned includes the following warning: You circumstances may 
change and force you to cash in early. 
And there is further explanation about what happens if the plan is cashed-in early: What you 
would get back is likely to be less than the premiums paid, because the Plan is designed 
primarily to be an investment plan for a term of 15 years.
I cant see anything that Mr B would have seen that suggested premiums would not 
increase. Information explaining the plan costs was included in the paperwork sent to him. 
He was made aware that his initial quarterly premium in the first year was £240, and it would 
increase by £48 at the end of each year up to £480 in the sixth year, and this is the amount 
he would pay from then on until the end of the term.
I find Mr B was also made aware that bonuses were discretionary and not guaranteed but 
would depend upon the future profits of (Aviva).
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account that Mr B mentioned having relied on 
advertising hed also seen about the plan. But I think it's fair for Aviva to say that a marketing 
poster could only have persuaded Mr B to get in touch with it for more information about the 
plan and the actual details he needed to know were in the paperwork sent to him. 
To sum up, I am not persuaded that the information provided by Aviva was unclear, unfair or 
misleading. I realise that Mr B now feels the plan wasnt properly explained and unsuitable 
for his needs, especially as he had to cash-in early. But Aviva did not provide any advice or 
recommendation to take out the policy  and it did alert him to the investment risk if he didnt keep the plan for the full 15 years term. It supplied product literature which set out what he 
needed to know to be able to choose whether the plan was suitable for his own particular 
financial situation, his circumstances and his investment objectives. It was for Mr B to review 
the information about the policy to decide if he wanted to go ahead with it or not. Whilst I appreciate that Mr B is disappointed with the pay-out he received on his policy, I do 
not find that Aviva has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman