DRN-1666897
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs H. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. Canada Square sold 
Mrs H the policy when she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs H has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will 
explain why:
I think Canada Square made Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it. There is evidence that the online process at the time presented PPI 
as a choice, and you had to actively tick the box on the website for PPI to start. 
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Hs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been  I can see that some important information was 
immediately obvious. But I dont think full information about costs and benefits would 
have affected whether Mrs H took the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, 
its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. It would have potentially 
paid out for longer than her employer sick pay lasted, and would have put off the time 
she would need to fall back on any savings or other resources. She might have been 
affected by the restriction on claiming for medical conditions that already existed. But 
I dont think more information would actually have put her off taking the PPI  she did 
have a medical condition, but it doesnt seem likely shed have expected to make a 
claim because of it. 
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman