DRN-3819555
The complaint
Mr G complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly gave him a running account 
credit facility that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2014, Mr G applied for a credit account with Next. He was given an initial credit limit of 
£150. The credit limit was increased and decreased over the following years. 
In May 2022, Mr G complained to Next to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable. He said adequate affordability checks werent 
carried out. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr G didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach 
to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Gs complaint is that Next made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr G has not been able to provide 
any bank statements or a full credit file from the times in question. Prior to providing credit 
or credit increases to Mr G, Next says it carried out a credit check. It said the results of this 
satisfied it that Mr G could afford the credit limits it provided. There were times when Next 
decreased the credit limits when the credit report suggested Mr Gs credit status had 
deteriorated, which suggests that there was some consideration of affordability. 
Next havent been able to provide the results of those credit checks to us, so I cant know 
what it saw. So, its possible that Next failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr 
G with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Next 
to think the initial credit limit or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
In bringing his complaint, Mr G told us he took home £1,600 per month. So, based on that 
level of income I dont think that offering Mr G the credit limits it did, was automatically 
unreasonable of Next. 
And the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments for that credit 
would have been relatively modest. And subsequently through all of the credit increases 
the account was well managed, the payments were not missed and Mr H was not using 
the full credit limit available to him. And I have not had presented to me any evidence that 
confirms that Mr Gs credit file had sufficient evidence of adverse markings that may have 
made these credit decisions unreasonable. 
Ive also considered that, as Mr G never utilised the full extent of the credit limits available 
to him, even if I considered the increased credit limits above £1,500 to have been 
unreasonable, which I dont, Mr G has suffered no detriment in having them. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr G to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Next to think that the credit it provided 
Mr G was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mr G was managing his 
account or what Next could see of his management of other credit ought to have prompted 
it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mr G will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr G to know that I 
listened to all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman