DRN-4286587
The complaint
Ms C complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) failed to provide her with a replacement debit card 
in a timely manner.
What happened
Ms C says following her mobile phone being stolen in mid-December 2022, as it contained 
her debit card details, she telephoned Lloyds to cancel the debit card and order a 
replacement. 
Ms C says even though she was told it would arrive in five working days, by the 28 
December 2022 it still hadnt been received so she telephoned Lloyds again. Ms C says she 
explained to Lloyds she needed the card urgently as she was travelling overseas on 3 
January 2023, but Lloyds told her there was nothing it could do to expediate the delivery of 
the card. 
Ms C says another card provider was able to deliver a replacement card within a few days, 
but Lloyds simply told her the delay was due to strike action by the postal service and the 
only option was for her to use other accounts she held. 
Ms C says she didnt receive the replacement card until 10 January 2022 and had to borrow 
cash from family members which she didnt want to have to do.
Ms C says Lloyds need to look at its process for issuing replacement cards as she has 
experienced similar issues before and it learned nothing from that, and additionally feels 
Lloyds should pay her compensation for the inconvenience this has caused her. 
Lloyds says the replacement debit card was issued as soon as it was informed of the mobile 
phone theft but the delay in its receipt was due to the postal strike and the Christmas holiday 
period, which was out of its control. Lloyds says it had no other way of issuing the debit card 
other than using the postal service.
Lloyds say it did offer Ms C alternative options which she declined and informed her she was 
able to use the new debit card online within 48 hours. 
Ms C wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Lloyds acted appropriately and issued a replacement debit card as soon as it 
became aware. The investigator says it wasnt possible for Lloyds to send the replacement 
card by courier and offered Ms C alternative options to access her bank account. The 
investigator felt it was clear the delay in the debit cards delivery was due to the bank 
holidays and postal strikes at that time. 
Ms C didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Ms C to have ordered a replacement 
debit card and that card not to arrive in time for her overseas trip. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Lloyds took reasonable steps to provide a 
replacement debit card for Ms C, after she had informed them her mobile phone had been 
stolen. 
The first thing to say here is its not the role of this service to scrutinise Lloyds complaints 
process or to tell Lloyds how it should deal with complaints more widely. I know Ms C is 
unhappy with the way Lloyds dealt with her complaint  but my role is to look at whats fair 
and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint. So here, I will be looking at 
Ms Cs complaint about the time it took Lloyds to deliver her replacement debit card.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of this complaint so I wont repeat everything 
that been said before other than to say that Ms C feels Lloyds could have offered an 
alternative way to deliver her replacement debit card, rather than using the standard postal 
service given the urgency of the circumstances. 
While I understand the points Ms C makes here Im not fully persuaded by her argument as 
here Lloyds have explained its process for delivering replacement debit cards for all its 
customers is to use the standard postal service. So, while Ms C may not agree its not for 
this service to tell banks like Lloyds what process and procedures it must adopt in those 
situations  thats a business decision for it to make. 
Unfortunately, Ms Cs mobile phone with her debit card details was stolen at a busy 
Christmas holiday period and during strike action being taken by the postal service provider- 
so I cant hold Lloyds responsible for that or insist on those occasions it must provide an 
alternative method of delivery in those circumstances.
I can see Lloyds ordered the replacement debit card as soon as it became aware of the 
issue, offered alternative solutions including transferring funds to another account and it 
made Ms C aware of the fact she could use her card online. While Ms C didnt feel these 
options worked for her which is understandable, I am satisfied on balance Lloyds acted 
reasonably in the circumstances for the reasons I have already said. 
While Ms C will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Lloyds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman