DRN-3880580
The complaint
Ms L complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly handled a claim made under 
her legal expenses insurance (LEI).
References to Ms L and UKI will at times refer to respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of the complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Ms L holds UKI LEI cover and made a claim under the policy in relation to a property 
dispute with a neighbour.
UKI obtained a legal opinion from Company D about the claim which said it did not 
enjoy reasonable prospects of success  which was required under the policy terms 
for a claim to be covered. 
Ms L disagreed and provided her own barristers opinion (Barrister C), that supported 
her claims prospects of success. 
Company D reviewed Barrister Cs position and obtained the advice of senior 
counsel (Barrister S) who agreed with Company Ds findings. UKI followed the advice 
and maintained its decline of further costs. 
Ms L then obtained further evidence and provided this to Barrister C who in turn gave 
further advice. This was shared with Barrister S who concluded there were still not 
reasonable prospects of success for the claim.
As a result, UKI continued to decline the claim. Following a complaint, UKI provided a 
final response in May 2022. It said it would agree to pay certain fees for Barrister C 
as a gesture of goodwill but wouldnt cover any solicitor costs.
The complaint came to this Service and one of our Investigators reviewed what 
happened. Ms L also raised concerns about UKI not giving her the option of referring 
her complaint to arbitration instead of this Service when she first complained. 
The Investigator said UKI had fairly relied on the expert evidence it was provided 
with, and there was nothing that persuaded her the legal advice from Barrister S was 
so obviously wrong that UKI shouldnt have followed it. 
She also said while UKI couldve highlighted arbitration as an option earlier, 
ultimately the matter was reviewed by an independent and impartial dispute 
resolution service free of charge, so she felt there was no material impact on Ms L.
But the Investigator said UKIs handling was poor in places and that it didnt engage 
with the issues Ms L raised as it shouldve. So, she awarded £100 in compensation. 
UKI accepted the view but Ms L didnt. She provided a detailed response, saying 
Barrister S had acted negligently, or had acted in bad faith in collusion with UKI. She 
provided detail of her reasons as to why she felt Barrister S had failed to understand 
her claim or acknowledge the new evidence she had provided. And she stated her 
position was prejudiced in relation to arbitration as this Service is unable to consider 
the quality of legal advice. 
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. So, the matter has been 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision. Ms L has also notified us of a 
separate complaint she has raised about Company D to the Legal Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
For the avoidance of doubt, I want to be clear this Service is not able to assess the 
quality of Company D or Barrister Ss advice. This is a matter for the Legal 
Ombudsman or a court. So, I wont be commenting on legal advice given and will 
focus on the actions of UKI and its obligations in handling this claim.
Policies of this nature require claims to have reasonable prospects of success  
typically defined as at least 51% and which would recover losses or damages. This 
means if Ms Ls claim was shown to have at least 51% or greater prospects of 
success and would recover her losses or damages then the claim should be covered 
(subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy).
In determining if Ms Ls claim had reasonable prospects, UKI relied initially on the 
opinion of Company Ds solicitor. This outlined the potential claim Ms L may be able 
to make and assessed prospects at below 51%. 
UKI is entitled to rely on the legal advice it is provided with  unless that advice is 
obviously wrong. 
Following UKIs decline of the claim, Ms L obtained a conflicting legal assessment 
from Barrister C (in line with the policy terms). This first advice positioned Ms Ls 
claim with prospects of 50-55%. And Barrister Cs follow up advice after receiving 
further evidence then placed prospects at 55-60% subject to certain factors.
In line with its policy, UKI passed these legal opinions to Barrister S for their review. 
The advice Ive been provided with from Barrister S details their reasoning for not 
being satisfied Ms Ls prospects met the required 51% or above. Barrister S is a 
qualified individual with suitable experience in the relevant area of law, and their 
advice was properly written and reasoned, so Im satisfied it was fair for UKI to rely 
on it.
Ms L has put forward many arguments to say why she disagrees with Barrister S. 
And it seems to me UKI and Barrister S has engaged with this, with UKI sharing the 
following with Ms L:
[Barrister S] cannot understand why [Barrister C] can say in her first advice 
that the patio access is the strongest claim (60-65%) and then in her second 
opinion to say the rear access is (55-60%). If [Barrister C] is relying on there 
being an express right of way; it can only be one or the other. [Barrister C] 
does not make this clear in her advice. [Barrister S] is of the opinion that you 
do not have an express right of way over the rear access and thus he based 
his opinion on considering if you had a prescriptive right of way.
Overall, Ms Ls arguments largely appear to be disagreements with Barrister S 
interpretation of evidence or his opinion when compared to Barrister Cs, as opposed 
to anything that would be obviously wrong to UKI. 
Having reviewed everything carefully Ive not seen anything within the advice provided by Barrister S or Company D that would satisfy me it was obviously wrong 
so that UKI shouldnt have relied on it. It follows Im satisfied UKI acted fairly in 
relying on the advice provided to decline covering further costs for Ms Ls claim. 
I understand Ms L has a separate complaint about the quality of the advice provided 
by Company D and Barrister S with the Legal Ombudsman  who are placed to 
answer such a complaint. And I hope this review will bring some resolution for Ms L 
on this matter.
In regard to UKIs handling of the claim, I agree with our Investigator that UKI 
couldve been clearer with Ms L about who her complaint was addressed to, and it 
should have dealt with these matters quicker. Although I recognise the impact of 
these mistakes seem limited to minor delays and frustration for Ms L. So, I think the 
£100 compensation UKI has now accepted to pay is fair in the circumstances.
Ms L says UKI shouldve advised her of her option of arbitration earlier, and that its 
failure to do so prejudiced her position as she had already brought a complaint to this 
Service by the time she was told of it, which meant it was too late to take that option. 
Ms L says she understands she may have incurred costs in doing so, but that she 
wouldve agreed to these because arbitration allowed for the consideration of the 
legal advice provided  something this Service cannot. 
Ms L has told us she has a separate complaint with the Legal Ombudsman about this 
very matter. So, even if I were to agree here that UKI shouldve directed Ms L to this 
alternative option earlier, Im not persuaded it has had any material impact on her. I 
say this as she still has had the option of independent bodies reviewing the matters 
she is concerned about  namely, this Service considering UKIs actions, and the 
Legal Ombudsman due to consider the actions of Company D. So, this isnt 
something Id look to compensate her for or direct UKI to do anything further about.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited must pay Ms L £100 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman