DRN-3715670
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that MBNA Limited didnt uphold a claim he made to them under 
chargeback and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case
here, it might be possible to make a chargeback claim to dispute the transaction and
potentially to reverse it. It might also be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of 
the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a 
credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. From what I can see, 
all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have been met.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by MBNA, its administered by Visa and they set 
the rules. MBNA didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for 
them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success. Here, MBNA didnt 
submit a claim because information from the merchant suggested the goods were working 
and had been provided. In those circumstances MBNA did not think there was a realistic 
prospect the claim would succeed or that there was a rule under which the claim could be 
submitted. I think MBNAs decision was reasonable as Id agree that they hadnt been 
provided with sufficient information to dispute the merchants defence that the goods were 
working. 
Section 75
Mr P says he didnt start using the goods until the day after they were delivered. He says 
that the turf cutter then broke down after 20 or 30 minutes and that as the merchant were 
unresponsive nothing could be done until they collected the goods at the end of the hire 
period.  
I dont think that was an unreasonable delay as it was over a bank holiday when I think its 
reasonable to expect most businesses to be closed.
Mr P has provided a video of the turf cutter to demonstrate that it was broken but without any 
technical knowledge of the goods I cant establish whether its broken or whether theres a 
user error as the merchant has suggested.
Mr P has also explained that hes had advice from a landscaper who has suggested the 
problem he experienced is a common one. But its clear theres been no inspection of the 
goods by the landscaper and I dont therefore find that testimony persuasive.
I think its fair to suggest the hirer is an expert on this equipment and it was their opinion that 
the goods were working satisfactorily. I dont think Mr P has provided sufficient evidence the 
goods were broken and, even if he had, I think the contract would suggest the hirer should 
be able to provide a repair or replacement. The contract says:
8.1 Allowance may (my emphasis) be made in relation to the Rental to the Customer for 
any non-use of the Hire Goods due to breakdown caused by the development of an inherent 
fault and/or fair wear and tear on condition that the Customer informs (the merchant) 
promptly of the breakdown and (the merchant) is unable to repair or replace the Hire Goods 
within a reasonable time.
 
Mr P explained in an email he sent on 19 April 2022 that he didnt want to extend the hire or 
get a replacement but in those circumstances the contract didnt entitle him to a refund.
Its for those reasons that I dont think MBNA were unreasonable to reject Mr Ps claim. Im 
not therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman