DRN-1380251
 
Complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc told him he couldnt use his debit card at a Post Office to 
make cash payments into his account.
Background
Mr S had a current account with TSB. He had a debit card for the account.  He visited a Post 
Office branch to make a cash payment into his account. The card wasnt accepted and he 
contacted TSB. It told him to go back to the Post Office and try to make the payment again.
When Mr S went back to the Post Office he still wasnt able to make the payment. TSB then 
told him he needed to use a paying in book. It also told him that the cash would go into his 
account straightaway. Mr S says this didnt happen and as a result he missed a direct debit 
payment that was due to be taken from his account.
Mr S complained to TSB. He says, because of his eyesight and other medical conditions, 
hes unable to use a paying in book and thats why he wanted to use his debit card to make 
the payments. He also complained about the wrong information hed been given. He says 
that during the call TSB didnt use his correct name.
TSB investigated his complaint. It partially upheld his complaint. It apologised that hed been 
given incorrect information but said that cash paid in at a Post Office wouldnt be credited to 
his account until the next working day. It also acknowledged that, when he phoned, its 
adviser had used an incorrect surname to address him on one occasion but had immediately 
apologised.  It offered to pay him £25 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset hed 
been caused and a further £6 for the calls hed made. But, the letter that it sent to him wasnt 
in large print. 
So, he complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said that 
she couldnt tell TSB it had to allow cash payments into his account to be made using a debit 
card. She thought that £25 was fair and reasonable compensation for the incorrect 
information hed been given. But she said that TSB shouldve sent the letter to Mr S in large 
print and because it hadnt done that she thought it should pay Mr S a further £100 by way of 
compensation.
TSB didnt agree with our investigator. It said that Mr S couldve got someone else to read 
the letter to him or asked for the letter to be sent in large print. It said that it wasnt fair to ask 
it to pay £100 by way of compensation.
Because TSB didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaintIve thought about the issues Mr S has raised. He wanted to be able to make payments into 
his account using the Post Office. He thought he could do this using his card and when he 
checked with TSB it gave him the wrong information. I can see this meant that Mr S had to 
make a second visit to the Post Office and he then had to use a paying in book. 
I can understand why Mr S was upset when he realised that the information hed been given 
about using the debit card was incorrect. And, the information he was given about the 
processing times was also incorrect. Mr S has also told us that hes not able to use a paying 
in book because of issues he has with his eyesight and other medical conditions. 
TSB says that its debit card doesnt facilitate payments into its accounts to be made at the 
Post Office and thats why a paying in book has to be used. I agree with our investigator that 
we cant require TSB to change its systems. But, I wouldve expected TSB to give Mr S 
correct information about the banking service he was trying to use. 
TSB has acknowledged that it gave him incorrect information and has apologised for this. It 
paid him £25 by way of compensation and £6 for the cost of his telephone calls. I need to 
consider whether thats enough, given whats happened here.
Ive taken into account what Mr S has told us about the problems hes had with his eyesight. 
I can see that Mr S had previously contacted TSB to advise it of these issues. And, hed 
requested that statements and other documents should be sent to him in large print. TSB 
accepts that hed given it this information.
Where a customer has told a financial organisation he has a disability then best practice 
says he should only have to provide that information once. The organisation should then 
make sure that the information about the disability is used appropriately across its systems. 
Thats what I would have expected here.
The letter TSB sent to Mr S was in response to an issue hed had when he wasnt able to 
make a payment into his account. The letter set out the correct information about how the 
banking service, which Mr S had tried to use, worked. So, that information shouldve been 
provided to him in an appropriate medium, in easily understandable language and in a clear 
and comprehensible form. But the letter TSB sent to Mr S wasnt in large print. So, I dont 
think TSB did use an appropriate medium to provide this important information. 
TSB says Mr S couldve asked someone else to read the letter to him or simply asked it to 
send the letter out again. But, having considered the matter, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr S to have to get someone else to read his correspondence to him 
or to expect him to tell TSB again that he required large print.
So, I agree with our investigator that Mr S should be compensated for whats happened 
here. And, in addition to the compensation hes already been paid, TSB should pay him a 
further £100. I think thats fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset hes 
been caused as a result of TSBs actions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc. 
TSB Bank plc should pay Mr S £100 by way of additional compensation for the trouble and 
upset he has experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020. 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman