DRN-4379328
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse him for the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr W was contacted unexpectedly by someone on a messaging app and struck up a 
friendship with them. They discussed cryptocurrency investments  which Mr W says he had 
dabbled in previously  and this person told Mr W about a trading platform they used which 
was making them significant profits. Mr W did an internet search and the platform appeared 
to be legitimate  although there was no information available about the particular 
investment scheme he would be using  so Mr W was reassured that this was a good 
investment opportunity and agreed to invest himself. He says he was put in touch with 
someone who would help him with his trading account and in November 2022 he began to 
invest. Unfortunately, and unknown to Mr W at the time, the people he was dealing with were 
scammers. So the payments he was making from his Monzo account to a cryptocurrency 
account he held were then being sent on to the scammers, and not to a legitimate 
investment.
In total, Mr W made payments of over £27,000 to the scammers from his Monzo account.  
£15,000 of this was funded by a loan that Mr W took out with Monzo. However, when he was 
told hed need to pay more fees  which he could not afford  before he could make any 
withdrawal from his investment he did some further searching online and discovered other 
people who had fallen victim to the same scam. Its at this stage that Mr W realised he had 
not been dealing with a legitimate investment firm. 
Mr W contacted Monzo to tell it what had happened. Monzo wrote off the loan that Mr W had 
taken out as a gesture of goodwill, but ultimately it told him it would not be able to refund the 
rest of the money he had lost as it felt that the loss had been incurred from Mr Ws 
cryptocurrency account, not from his Monzo account, and so it felt it was not responsible for 
the loss. It did though pay him £150 to recognise that it could have handled his concerns 
better as there were delays in Mr W being provided with a response to his claim.
Mr W was unhappy with Monzos response and so he referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened, and ultimately they felt that Monzo 
should have stepped in to question Mr W about the second payment he made  which was 
for £7,500. They felt that, if Monzo had done so, then the scam would have been uncovered 
and the majority of Mr Ws loss could have been prevented. However, the Investigator also 
felt that Mr W should bear some responsibility for what had happened. They did not consider 
he had done enough to ensure the people he was dealing with were legitimate, and felt there 
were some red flags which should have indicated to him that something may be amiss.
So our Investigator recommended that Monzo refund 50% of the payments made from the 
second payment onwards, plus some interest.
Mr W accepted the Investigators findings, Monzo did not. It maintains that it is not 
responsible for the loss given that the payments from Mr Ws Monzo account were made to 
a cryptocurrency account in his own name.
As no agreement could be reached, this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
The starting point under the relevant regulations (in this case, the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017) and the terms of Mr Ws account is that Mr W is responsible for payments 
he has authorised himself. And, as the Supreme Court has recently reiterated in Philipp v 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, banks generally have a contractual duty to make payments in 
compliance with their customers instructions.
In that case, the Supreme Court considered the nature and extent of the contractual duties 
owed by banks when making payments.  Among other things, it said, in summary:
The starting position is that it is an implied term of any current account contract that, 
where a customer has authorised and instructed a bank to make a payment, the 
bank must carry out the instruction promptly. It is not for the bank to concern itself 
with the wisdom or risk of its customers payment decisions. 
The express terms of the current account contract may modify or alter that position. 
For example, in Philipp, the contract permitted Barclays not to follow its consumers 
instructions where it reasonably believed the payment instruction was the result of 
APP fraud; but the court said having the right to decline to carry out an instruction 
was not the same as being under a duty to do so.   
In this case, Monzos December 2021 terms and conditions (which applied at the time of the 
payments in dispute here) gave it rights (but not obligations) to:
Block payments if it suspects criminal activity on a customers account. It 
explains if it blocks a payment it will let its customer know as soon as possible, 
using one of its usual channels (via its app, email, phone or by post)
So, the starting position at law was that:
Monzo was under an implied duty at law to make payments promptly.
It had a contractual right not to make payments where it suspected criminal activity 
It could therefore block payments, or make enquiries, where it suspected criminal 
activity, but it was not under a contractual duty to do either of those things.
It is not clear from this set of terms and conditions whether suspecting a payment may relate 
to fraud (including authorised push payment fraud) is encompassed within Monzos definition 
of criminal activity. But in any event, whilst the current account terms did not oblige Monzo to 
make fraud checks, I do not consider any of these things (including the implied basic legal duty to make payments promptly) precluded Monzo from making fraud checks before 
making a payment.  
And, whilst Monzo was not required or obliged under the contract to make checks, I am 
satisfied that, taking into account longstanding regulatory expectations and requirements, 
and what I consider to have been good practice at the time, it should fairly and reasonably 
have been on the look-out for the possibility of APP fraud and have taken additional steps, or 
made additional checks, before processing payments in some circumstances  as in practice 
all banks, including Monzo, do. 
I am mindful in reaching my conclusions about what Monzo ought fairly and reasonably to 
have done that:
FCA regulated banks are required to conduct their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers (Principle 6)1.  
Banks have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements 
and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm 
might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook, which has applied since 2001). 
Over the years, the FSA, and its successor the FCA, have published a series of 
publications setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor practice found 
when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime, including 
various iterations of the Financial crime: a guide for firms.2. 
Regulated banks are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money 
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. Those 
requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).
The October 2017, BSI Code, which a number of banks and trade associations were 
involved in the development of, recommended firms look to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could 
1 Since 31 July 2023 under the FCAs new Consumer Duty package of measures, banks and other 
regulated firms must act to deliver good outcomes for customers (Principle 12), but the circumstances 
of this complaint pre-date the Consumer Duty and so it does not apply. 
2 For example, both the FSAs Financial Crime Guide at 4.2.5G and the FCAs 2015 Financial crime: 
a guide for firms gave examples of good practice in relation to investment fraud saying: 
A bank regularly assesses the risk to itself and its customers of losses from fraud, including 
investment fraud, in accordance with their established risk management framework. The risk 
assessment does not only cover situations where the bank could cover losses, but also where 
customers could lose and not be reimbursed by the bank. Resource allocation and mitigation 
measures are informed by this assessment. 
A bank contacts customers if it suspects a payment is being made to an investment fraudster. 
A bank has transaction monitoring rules designed to detect specific types of investment fraud. 
Investment fraud subject matter experts help set these rules.involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  Not all firms signed the BSI Code, but in my 
view the standards and expectations it referred to represented a fair articulation of 
what was, in my opinion, already good industry practice in October 2017 particularly 
around fraud prevention, and it remains a starting point for what I consider to be the 
minimum standards of good industry practice now.    
Monzo has agreed to abide by the principles CRM Code.  This sets out both 
standards for firms and situations where signatory firms will reimburse consumers   
The CRM Code does not cover all authorised push payments (APP) in every 
circumstances (and it does not apply to the circumstances of the payments this 
complaint is about), but I consider the standards for firms around the identification of 
transactions presenting additional scam risks and the provision of effective warnings 
to consumers when that is the case, represent a fair articulation of what I consider to 
be good industry practice generally for payment service providers carrying out any 
APP transactions.  
Overall, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, or provided additional warnings, before 
processing a payment  as in practice all banks do.
Have been mindful of  among other things  common scam scenarios, the evolving 
fraud landscape (including for example the use of multi-stage fraud by scammers) 
and the different risks these can present to consumers, when deciding whether to 
intervene.
Should Monzo have fairly and reasonably made further enquiries before it processed Mr Ws 
payments?
Mr Ws Monzo account had been open for some time and was used regularly for day-to-day 
expenditure, so Monzo had a fairly significant background against which to compare any 
payments. 
I acknowledge that the payments in dispute here were to an account Mr W had paid before, 
and to an account in Mr Ws own name, and so would have seemed less risky to Monzo. But 
just because a payment is to an account in the consumers own name or to an account they 
have paid before, that does not mean it bears no risk at all, and I would still expect Monzo to 
keep an eye out for particularly high payments or those that bore other hallmarks of potential 
fraud, even if those payments were made to another account belonging to their customer or 
one that their customer had paid previously. 
I say this because this kind of payment journey  where payments are made from an 
account with one bank, to accounts in the same consumers name at other banks, e-money providers or cryptocurrency wallets, and then on to the scammer  is increasingly a feature 
of this kind of investment scam. And I would expect Monzo to have an awareness of how 
these scams operate and be aware of what it should be looking out for to help protect its 
customers.
The first payment made by Mr W was for only £10, a low amount considering how the Monzo 
account usually operated, and so I dont think there was anything about that payment that 
ought to have suggested to Monzo that Mr W was at risk of financial harm. But I agree with 
our Investigator that the next payment, which was for £7,500, should have flagged as 
potentially suspicious to Monzo, despite the fact that it was a payment to an existing payee, 
and the account it was being paid into was Mr Ws own cryptocurrency account. I say this 
because £7,500 was significantly higher than any other payment made from the account in 
the previous six months, and this payment was being made to a cryptocurrency provider, 
which  given the prevalence of cryptocurrency scams  would have been another indicator 
that something untoward could have been going on. So, with this in mind, I think Monzo 
should have contacted Mr W directly to ask him some questions before allowing this 
payment to go through.
Had Monzo done this, then I think it is more likely than not that the scam would have been 
uncovered. Mr W doesnt appear to have been given a cover story to use by the scammer, 
so I think that if Monzo had asked what the payments were for then he would have been 
open and honest. And what Mr W would likely have told Monzo about what he was doing 
should have rung alarm bells for Monzo, given that these types of investment scam are 
becoming increasingly common. Monzo could then have explained the risks Mr W was 
exposing himself to, and I consider it likely that the spell of the scam would have been 
broken and Mr W wouldnt have proceeded with the payments. So I think Monzo could have 
prevented the losses Mr W incurred from the second payment onwards.
I do, however, agree with our Investigators finding that Mr W should share some 
responsibility for what has happened here. The manner in which he was initially contacted by 
the scammer was unorthodox, and Im not satisfied that Mr W took reasonable steps to 
ensure that the money he was investing was going to a legitimate investment platform. So 
with this in mind, I think its fair and reasonable for Mr W to bear responsibility for 50% of the 
loss.
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr W reported the fraud, but given that the money was paid to Mr Ws own cryptocurrency 
account and was then immediately moved on to the scammers, I dont think it could have 
done more.
Monzo, by its own admission, did not handle Mr Ws complaint as well as it could have. And 
as a result, it paid him £150 to recognise any distress and inconvenience caused. I consider 
this to be fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Monzo should:
- Refund 50% of the outstanding loss of £12,585  representing a refund of £6,292.50
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount calculated from the date of each 
transaction until this complaint is settled.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman