DRN-4120986
The complaint
Mr I complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) restricted and closed his account without 
explanation. 
To put things right, M I wants compensation for the significant distress and inconvenience he 
says hes suffered. And he wants his account re-opened. 
What happened
In May 2022, following a review, Santander blocked Mr Is account. Mr I says he had to 
make many calls over the course of a week before he learnt what had happened to his 
account. 
Mr I says his account was the only account he had at the time, and it serviced all his 
essential bills and mortgage. He was also paid his salary into it. Mr I says not having any 
access caused him substantive distress and inconvenience  especially as his regular 
payments werent being made. 
In June 2022, Santander informed Mr I it was closing his account with immediate effect in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. Santander also informed Mr I it would send 
him a cheque for the closing balance. Mr I says he got this around a week later, but he had 
to wait until he opened a new account to deposit it.
Unhappy with Santanders actions, Mr I complained. Santander sent Mr I a final response, 
and in summary, it said: 
- It understands the block is causing Mr I inconvenience, but it does not have control 
over this. Santander cannot allow transactions to take place at that time and it cant 
provide an explanation
Mr I referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators then looked into it. In 
summary, they found: 
- Santander acted in line with its obligations and acted fairly when blocking and then 
closing Mr Is account 
- In terms of his regular payments, Mr I account was running normally. And as 
Santander was within its rights to restrict and close his account, it makes no award 
for any impact its actions had
- Santander has shown it sent Mr I notice it was closing his account   
Mr I did not agree with what our Investigator said. He emphasised that by being sent a 
cheque when he didnt have another account was unreasonable, and for having to 
re-organise his regular outgoing payments in this way was incredibly distressing and 
inconvenient. 
As Mr I didnt agree, his complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr I, so 
Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like Santander, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order 
to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Santander has explained, and sent me information, to show why it decided to review and 
block Mr Is account. Having closely reviewed this, Im satisfied Santander acted in line with 
its obligations.  
I can understand why Mr I would like an explanation. But Im not aware of any obligation 
under which Santander must do so. 
Santander is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. 
But before Santander closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Santander and Mr I had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Santander, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the account in the way that it has done. Im also persuaded this was done so in line 
with the terms of the account, and that Santanders concerns were sufficient for it to take the 
more drastic action of immediate closure.
Mr I says Santanders actions have caused him significant trouble and upset. I do appreciate 
this matter wouldve caused him a lot of difficulty  and I accept at face value how this 
substantively impacted him in the way he describes. 
But having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I 
might make an award against Santander given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its 
own procedures when it restricted and closed Mr Is account. 
So Im not going to ask Santander to compensate Mr I for any distress and inconvenience its 
actions have caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman