DRN-4017911
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost when he was the victim of 
a scam. 
Mr A is represented by a firm Ill refer to as C.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2022 Mr A was the victim of a crypto yield farming scam. Mr A transferred funds from his 
Monzo account to a trading wallet in his own name with a legitimate crypto exchange 
platform. These funds were then transferred to the scammers - a firm Ill refer to as M - 
trading platform. Mr A sent the funds to M in the belief he would receive a daily return of 
3.3% on his investment. 
The relevant payments from Mr As Monzo account are:
Date Amount
4 May 2022 £5
7 May 2022 £3,030
9 May 202 £10,000
12 May 2022 £2,880
Total: £15,915
Shortly after this, Mr A became aware hed been scammed when he logged on to the trading 
platform and his account balance showed zero. He contacted Monzo in October 2022 but 
they said they couldnt refund the money hed lost. This was because his funds were 
transferred to a legitimate crypto exchange platform in his name before being sent to M. And 
so, the scam payments didnt come from Mr As Monzo account. 
C complained to Monzo on Mr As behalf about what happened. In short, they said:
Mr A, an inexperienced investor, was introduced to M by a relative who had been 
successfully trading on a similar platform - which M told Mr A they were linked to.
Mr A researched M and found them to be a registered company in the country they 
were based in. He found their website informative and the trading platform very slick - 
and so easy to use as well as professional. Mr A also saw that M used various social 
media that he too found informative. He didnt however find anything to indicate M or 
the investment opportunity werent legitimate. 
Crypto investment was prominent in the news and Mr A knew famous figures had 
invested in this area.
M requested Mr A provide identification and a picture of his face as part of their know 
your customer and anti-money laundering checks. Mr A found this to be plausible 
and assumed all investment firms would require this before accepting a new client. 
This instilled further confidence in Mr A being able to trust M as he considered this 
incredibly professional. 
Upon his account being verified, Mr A could log on and see the live trades. And he 
spoke with various persons at M through a messaging App  which further added to 
the legitimacy of the scam. 
Before making the payments from his Monzo account, Mr A had invested in crypto 
from another bank account in the months prior. And he contacted the crypto 
exchange platform, where his funds were initially sent, who confirmed Ms trading 
platform was a legitimate company.
Mr A saw a positive profit from his initial investment and was able to withdraw from 
the trading account to his own bank account. 
The payments Mr A made ought to have been identified by Monzo as unusual and he 
ought to have been contacted. Mr A however received no warning about the 
payments and so, Monzo failed to protect him from the scam. 
Had Monzo contacted Mr A to enquire about the payments and asked probing 
questions, they wouldve become aware he was likely falling victim to a scam. At 
which point Mr A ought to have been given an appropriate warning about the high 
risk of fruad with these types of payments. If this had happened, Mr A wouldve 
stopped the payment(s) and sought to establish the exchange was legitimate.
The failure of Monzo to protect Mr A, due to ineffective fraud prevention measures, is 
why they should refund the money he lost.  
Monzo rejected the complaint and said they werent liable for Mr As losses.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our Investigator didnt think 
Monzo had to do anything further. She thought Monzo ought to have contacted Mr A when 
he made the £10,000 payment. Had this happened though, she didnt think it wouldve 
stopped Mr A from proceeding. This was because he was introduced to M via a trusted 
family member and hed carried out checks on M, including that they were regulated in their 
country of base. Mr A also hadnt found anything negative about M when the payments were 
made. So, even if Monzo had questioned the payments and advised Mr A to carry out further 
due diligence, she didnt think Mr M wouldve found anything that wouldve prevented him 
from making the payments. 
C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, theyve added:
Mr A shouldnt be blamed for the sophistication of the scam when Monzo is expected 
to be experts in this field, with the tools at their disposal to break the common scams 
they see. 
There were common hallmarks of a scam here such as the payment journey (Mr As 
account > Legitimate exchange > Scam Wallet), the frequency and value of the 
payments and the guaranteed daily returns of 3.3%. And that M wasnt regulated 
within the UK. 
Monzos failure to contact Mr A shows they didnt protect him from the fraud and 
financial abuse. And it wouldnt be fair to suggest Monzo cant be held liable due to 
Mr As belief in the scam. 
Had Monzo appropriately probed Mr A about the payments, they wouldve become 
alarmed and the scam wouldve been uncovered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im sorry that Mr A has been the victim of what appears to be a sophisticated and 
professional scam. But while I know this wont be the outcome Mr A will be hoping for, for 
similar reasons as our Investigator, I dont think Monzo has acted unfairly by not refunding 
the loss. 
Ive thought about the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code) which can offer a 
potential means of obtaining a refund following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. But 
the CRM code only applies to payments made to an account held by another person. As the 
payments Mr A made were sent to an account he held in his own name with a crypto 
exchange platform, theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered 
whether Monzo should reimburse Mr A under any of their other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that Mr A knowingly 
made the payments from his Monzo account. I appreciate Mr A was tricked by the scammer 
as he thought it was a genuine investment opportunity. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the 
payments were authorised by Mr A. So, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and 
the terms of his account, Monzo are expected to process the payments and Mr A is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Mondo to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr A to Monzo (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity.
Having looked at Mr As account usage before the scam occurred, in addition to low value 
day to day spending, there was various faster payments made to a third party of between 
£1,000 and £3,000. Mr A had also regularly sent payments of a similar amount, and greater, 
to an account(s) held in his own name. And so, I dont think the first two payments wouldve 
been that unusual based on Mr As typical account activity. However, I think the third 
payment of £10,000 was for more than Mr A typically used his account for. And given it was 
the third payment of an increasing value being sent to a relatively new payee within only a 
six-day period, I think Monzo ought to have identified it as unusual and that Mr A was 
potentially at risk of financial harm from fraud. So, I think Monzo shouldve held the payment 
and spoken with Mr A before releasing it.
Id like to explain at this point that while I consider Monzo failed to take appropriate steps to 
protect Mr A from the scam here by not contacting him, this  in itself  doesnt mean theyre 
responsible for his loss. But rather I must consider whether Mr A wouldve likely proceeded 
to make the payment(s) had Monzo caried out the appropriate additional checks along with 
suitable warnings being given. 
Ive thought carefully about this and had Monzo done so, I think its likely Mr A wouldve 
explained the purpose of the payment  that being for crypto investment purposes. And 
given Monzo are aware of the prevalence of crypto scams, it wouldve been reasonable for 
them to have questioned Mr A about it further  including how Mr A came across the 
opportunity, the investment returns being offered and what checks hed carried out to ensure 
M and the investment were legitimate. 
Ive no reason to think Mr A wouldnt have answered honestly. So, I think he wouldve told 
Monzo about the investment  including the payment journey and that it was expected to provide daily returns of 3.3%. From this, I agree with C that these investment features 
shouldve given Monzo reason to think it could possibly be a scam. But Ive considered that 
Mr A wouldve likely also told Monzo that hed been introduced to M via a relative and hed 
researched the firm himself. This included checking their social media and that M was 
regulated in the country they were based (as they said they were). He also hadnt found 
anything online to suggest M or the investment opportunity wasnt legitimate. And the crypto 
exchange platform he was sending his money to (before being forwarded to M) had 
confirmed Ms trading platform to be a legitimate company. Furthermore, hed been trading 
with M for several months using another bank account and hed seen positive returns from 
his investment so far, as well been able to withdraw funds. 
Because of this, I think Monzo wouldve been reassured that Mr A had carried out sufficient 
due diligence before proceeding with the investment. And given there wasnt anything 
publicly available at the time to indicate M was scamming their clients, Im not persuaded Mr 
A wouldve been deterred from proceeding even if Monzo had recommended he carry out 
further checks or provided warnings of the risks associated with crypto investments. 
I appreciate that Mr A has since become aware that M registered their firm with the regulator 
illegitimately at the time and has since been deregistered. I dont however think it wouldve 
been reasonable for Monzo to have known this. I likewise dont think M being based in a 
different country  and considered to be regulated there  wouldve given sufficient reason 
for Monzo to know it was a scam. This is because, although non-UK based investments 
wont provide the same protection thats potentially provided by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, this doesnt mean theyre not legitimate.  
Im aware that C doesnt think its fair for Mr A to be blamed for the sophistication of the 
scam. But I can only look at Monzos responsibility to protect Mr A and whether theyre 
responsible for his loss. And while I think they ought to have intervened before releasing the 
£10,000 payment, as Ive explained, I dont think their failure to do so led to Mr As loss. And 
so, for these reasons, I dont think they are required to refund Mr A. 
On a final note, its unclear whether Monzo contacted the receiving bank upon being notified 
by Mr A hed been scammed. But given he sent the funds to a legitimate crypto exchange 
platform  and Mr A could access his trading wallet  I wouldnt have expected that here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman