DRN-3875992
The complaint
Miss B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse her the money she lost when she 
fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
Miss B saw some posts on a well-known social media website, promoting a trading 
investment and including messages that appeared to show other people had made profits. 
She made contact with the trader who instructed her to download an app onto her phone. 
The app was for a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange company (which Ill refer to as G). 
Miss B was told to set up an account with G on this app and that would then allow her to 
send her money on to the traders company. Miss B was told trades would then be made on 
her behalf. 
Having downloaded Gs app to her phone and set up an account in her own name, Miss B 
sent £500 to her account with G. She sent this as a transfer from her Monzo account which 
shed opened a few weeks earlier. 
Miss B was told her investment was doing extremely well, and a day later was told it had 
reached a value of just over £13,000. But to withdraw her profits, Miss B was told shed need 
to pay a release fee of £2,100. She made this payment and then sent further payments via 
her account with G, again in the expectation that this would mean her money and profit 
would be returned. In total, Miss B had sent payments from her Monzo account then through 
her account with G amounting to £6,900.
But when shed not received anything back, either to her Monzo account or her account 
with G, Miss B realised shed been the victim of a scam. She reported what had happened to 
Monzo.
Monzo didnt refund Miss B. It didnt dispute that she had been the victim of a scam but said 
that because the loss had occurred when Miss B sent the funds onward from the 
cryptocurrency exchange, it wasnt liable to reimburse her. The payments had gone to an 
account in her own name so when shed been making them it hadnt caused Monzo concern 
she might be about to lose her money. It directed her to contact G about the funds shed 
ultimately lost from her account with that platform. Monzo was unable to recover any of the 
money shed lost.
Miss B didnt accept this and referred her complaint to this service for an impartial review. 
She said shed initially tried to send a payment from the account she holds with another 
bank, but that bank had blocked her payment and told her it was a scam. She thought 
Monzo should have done the same.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt think Monzo had treated Miss B unfairly. 
The Investigator noted that Miss B was transferring money from her Monzo account to an 
account shed set up in her own name with G, and shed set that account up with the intent 
of facilitating onward payments to the trader. That meant the APP scam reimbursement code 
(the Contingent Reimbursement Model code or CRM Code) wouldnt apply, because the 
payment from Monzo hadnt gone directly to another person.
He also didnt think it would have been apparent to Monzo that the payments Miss B was 
making were connected to a scam, nor that they were unusual for her account given Monzo 
had no prior usage it could compare them against. So, he didnt think Monzo could 
reasonably have been expected to intervene or take steps to warn Miss B more than it had. 
He didnt find Monzo at fault and didnt require it to refund Miss Bs losses.
Miss B didnt accept our Investigators view. Her complaint has been passed to me to reach 
a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Miss B. I can understand entirely why she feels 
her money should be returned to her. Shes been the victim of a crime here, and shes 
explained the impact its had on her. She was deceived by a scam that led her to believe the 
trader was investing her money and making a significant profit. Miss Bs been left out of 
pocket by a significant sum as a result. So, I can appreciate why shed now like Monzo to 
refund her for what she lost, and why she wants the bank to take the blame.
However, the main cause of these losses were the scammers who deceived Miss B. For me 
to say Monzo is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank could and 
should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in 
some other way.
A voluntary code does exist to provide additional protection against APP scams (the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  CRM Code). Monzo has agreed to adhere to this 
code when assessing scam claims. But as the Investigator explained, payments made to a 
customers own accounts wont normally be covered by the CRM Code. 
That matters because the account to which Miss B sent money from her Monzo account was 
an account registered in her own name at G. Shed set this up and knew it was being used 
as a route to move money on to the trading platform. Based on what I have seen, I find that 
the CRM Code provisions dont apply to Miss Bs complaint about Monzo.
However, while I therefore find the CRM Code does not apply here, that Code is not the full 
extent of the relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. 
First of all, under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks have a primary obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction 
without undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud 
or scam - for example as part of an investment scam such as this was. However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank also has a duty 
to take reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams.
In particular, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice Monzo should have been 
looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of character or 
unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial detriment to its 
customer through fraud or a scam. 
In short, the test I need to apply here is whether the evidence is such that I consider Monzo 
ought to have had significant concerns that these transactions could be indicative of possible 
financial harm through fraud or a scam  to the extent that this would have overcome its 
primary obligation to carry out Miss Bs payment instructions. 
With all of the above in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether the available evidence 
demonstrates that Monzo did enough given the specific circumstances here. 
While Ive carefully considered all the evidence and points raised by Miss B, I dont consider 
these payments, were so significantly unusual that I could find Monzo at fault for not having 
taken further steps than it did. 
Monzo did provide a general scam warning, urging Miss B not to make payments to anything 
that seemed too good to be true, and urging her to question how well she knew the person 
she was dealing with. Miss B acknowledges seeing and reading this warning, but says she 
was adamant to start  she thought the opportunity was genuine and the warning didnt 
apply.
Of course, Monzo could have provided an even stronger warning about the risks. But I cant 
fairly hold Monzo liable for not providing Miss B with a stronger warning when there was no 
obligation on Monzo to do so for transactions of this nature. While the payments were made 
in reasonably quick succession, the other factors here, including that the payment was going 
to an account in Miss Bs own name and one to which shed previously sent money would 
reasonably have made the payments appear less likely to result in loss through fraud or 
scam. And Monzo had no tangible account history against which to determine whether this 
was unusual behaviour for Miss Bs account.
On balance, and taking everything into consideration, I do not find that there was enough 
here for me to say Monzo should have intervened rather than fulfil its primary obligation to 
carry out Miss Bs instructions. 
Further I am satisfied that when Monzo was made aware of the scam, it took the appropriate 
actions. This included its attempts to recover Miss Bs lost funds  however, theyd already 
been moved on from her account with G in the course of the scam, and nothing remained 
with G to be recovered.
Overall, I dont find Monzo was at fault here. I cant fairly require Monzo to refund these 
payments.
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Miss B 
and I am sorry she has lost out. Miss B was the victim of a crime and a cruel scam carefully 
designed to defraud her of her money. I appreciate that what shes lost here adds up to a 
significant sum. But it is simply the case that I dont find Monzo was at fault in making these 
payments in line with the instructions she gave Monzo at the time, and I dont find the bank liable to refund her for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman