DRN-2822668
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Ms A and Mr M took out in 2018 on the advice and 
recommendation of an adviser who was a representative of SRC Financial Services 
Limited trading as SRC Mortgage Solutions (SRC).
Ms A and Mr M say they werent offered the best product available at the time because the 
broker limited them to one lender. 
What happened
By way of a provisional decision last month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I 
intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words (rounding the figures where 
applicable) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Ms A and Mr M were buying a newly-converted shared-ownership property in a 
re-development. SRC arranged a mortgage with a lender Ill call K. The mortgage was on 
an initial fixed rate of 4.59%. Soon after moving in, Ms A and Mr M say they spoke to some 
of their new neighbours who told them they had secured better deal with different lenders. 
They complained to SRC, saying they had suffered proven losses of around £21,000 as a 
result.
SRC rejected the complaint, saying that the mortgage with K was the best deal available 
because other lenders werent lending on that development at that particular time. Our 
investigator initially rejected the complaint, but changed her mind after it was drawn to her 
attention that Ms A and Mr M had enough in savings to put down a bigger deposit than the 
5% they actually did. 
This, she said, raised the possibility that SRC had wrongly disregarded other lenders that 
might have offered a better deal for a larger deposit. One such lender (which Ill call B) 
would have offered a better rate for a 15% deposit, so the investigator recommended SRC 
refund Ms A and Mr M their broker fee. Ms A and Mr M accepted this, but SRC asked for the 
case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It said that B wasnt lending on the development at 
the time of this application.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion from the investigator; I set out my 
provisional findings below so that both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such documents is 
that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the 
relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be 
recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it. Even if anomalies or mistakes are identified, that doesnt 
automatically mean a mis-sale has taken place. We still have to consider whether they might 
or might not have affected the suitability of the advice that was given.
In the case at hand, there is an anomaly; on the one hand, SRC recorded Ms A and Mr M as 
having a maximum 5% deposit (which equated to around £7,000) but elsewhere recorded 
them as having total savings of about £20,000 (which would equate to a deposit of around 
15%). What I have to decide is whether that anomaly impacted on the advice they received 
to take the mortgage with K. 
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Im satisfied that K wasnt the only lender SRC considered before making its 
recommendation. The point-of-sale documentation listed all of the lenders that SRC 
considered  including those whose rates were lower than Ks  and then gave detailed 
reasons why these had been disregarded in favour of K. The issue is whether SRC was right 
in its assessment of K as offering the best available deal.
I appreciate Ms A and Mr Ms strength of feeling, and I notice that they have more than once 
referred to having proved their case. Actually, thats not quite true; their belief that they 
should have had a better rate is almost entirely based on the conversations theyve had with 
other residents in the same development who apparently have told them they got better 
deals from other lenders.
One of the problems there is that theres no context. Every mortgage application is different 
from the next because every applicants circumstances are different. Just because one 
person gets a deal from a particular lender doesnt automatically mean another person 
would too. Another problem is the complete absence of corroboration; Ms A and Mr Ms case 
is essentially hearsay. 
Thats not to say SRCs case is not without its problems. Its told us that at the time it 
recommended the mortgage with K to Ms A and Mr M, B (the lender offering a lower rate for 
a 15% deposit) wasnt actively lending on their development at that moment. Thats quite 
possibly true (lenders often manage risk by limiting their exposure on the same 
development) but again its not corroborated; at least not currently. I note SRC told our 
investigator it would get B to confirm this. If it wishes to strengthen its case, SRC could, 
presumably, still obtain Bs verification as part of its response to this provisional decision.But I have to say that even without independent verification from B, Im not convinced SRCs 
advice to take the mortgage with K was unsuitable. Thats because even if Ms A and Mr M 
had some money, it doesnt necessarily mean that they would have been able to use it all for 
the deposit. Ms A and Mr M would have had other transaction costs, plus as first-time 
buyers, they would very likely have needed to keep money back to furnish the property. If 
Ms A and Mr M wished to strengthen their case, they might consider providing evidence that 
the savings they had in 2018 is still intact and untouched rather than having been used on 
other things.
Ultimately that when considering any complaint like this, as Ms A and Mr M are the ones 
bringing the complaint against SRC, for me to uphold the complaint requires Ms A and Mr 
Ms argument to be more likely than SRCs argument; not just as likely. Having considered 
everything before me presently, I cant say Ms A and Mr Ms argument is anything more 
than, at best, just as likely, which isnt enough for me to uphold their complaint.
I gave the parties until 14 May 2021 to respond to my provisional decision; weve heard from 
both. Ms A and Mr M have provided evidence of their savings; SRC has provided further 
evidence that Barclays was not an active lender on the development at the time of Ms A and 
Mr Ms application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive been given no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
Im satisfied Ms A and Mr M had the savings they said they had at the time of applying for 
the mortgage. But the statements theyve sent me are all from 2018, so they dont allow me 
to form a view on whether and to what extent those saving have been used in the years 
since. However, the point is moot in any event.
Thats because SRC has provided a comprehensive breakdown of all the mortgages that 
were arranged across the various phases of the development. Ms A and Mr M have asked to 
see this; however, it contains information about the mortgages taken out by other people 
who have bought properties on the same development as Ms A and Mr M.
Our rules allow us to treat evidence received from either party as confidential. The rules also 
give me the discretion to rely on confidential evidence if I consider it material to the outcome 
of the complaint. I find that to be the case here. It shows that the number of mortgages 
Barclays had already provided had reached the maximum it was willing to provide prior to 
the phase of the development on which Ms A and Mr M were buying.
Having considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided, I remain 
satisfied SRC was right in its assessment of K as offering the best available deal for Ms A 
and Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman