The complaint
Mr S says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. Mr S says he was a bad candidate for 
borrowing. He had a gambling problem and had defaulted on different types of credit prior to 
borrowing from MYJAR. His income had reduced and was insufficient to cover the 
repayments. He says MYJAR took advantage of his circumstances and lent him credit he 
couldnt afford.       
What happened
This complaint is about two short-term loans MYJAR gave to Mr S in February 2018.  Mr Ss 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 08/02/2018 26/02/2018 3 £200.00 £107.81
2 27/02/2018 Outstanding 12 £925.00 £138.86
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought loan two shouldnt have been 
given as MYJAR should have carried out more proportionate checks for loan two and would 
have seen Mr S was having problems managing his money. 
MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicator. It said that based on Mr Ss repayment history and 
information declared by him, it would not have been proportionate to request his bank 
statements at the time of loan two.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
DRN-1967440the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr S didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loan one shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont 
be making a decision about this lending. But the loan was part of the borrowing relationship 
Mr S had with MYJAR. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the other 
loan he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
When Mr S returned for additional borrowing at loan two, it was the day after loan one was 
repaid. And loan one was repaid early only to be replaced by further borrowing for a much 
larger sum  nearly five times as much  and the term of the loan had increased from three 
months to 12 months. 
I agree with the adjudicator that this borrowing behaviour would suggest that Mr S may have 
been having problems managing his money. And I think at this point MYJAR should have 
been looking to build a bigger picture about Mr Ss financial circumstances. It should have sought further information and evidence from Mr S  such as asking for copies of his pay 
slips, evidence of his outgoings by asking for copies of bills or his bank statements  as 
examples. 
And if it had done so, I think MYJAR would have seen that Mr S was making a regular high 
number of transactions on on-line gambling websites and his lending was going some way to 
finance Mr Ss betting. So, I think MYJAR would have concluded that Mr S was having 
problems managing his money and there was a real risk that he wasnt in the position to 
make the loan repayments  which proved to be case as loan two is outstanding. I dont 
think MYJAR should have agreed to the lending 
So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint about loan two and MYJAR should 
put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do 
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ss loan has been transferred to a third party MYJAR 
should buy the loan back if it can. If MYJAR cant buy the loan back, then it needs to work 
with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) MYJAR should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr S having made
overpayments then MYJAR should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest*
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the
date the complaint is settled.
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable
repayment plan with Mr S. MYJAR shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of
principal MYJAR may have already written-off. But Id remind MYJAR of its obligation to treat
Mr S fairly.
C) MYJAR should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation
to loan two.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman