DRN-2764678
The complaint
 Ms C is unhappy that Assicurazioni Generali SpA trading as Generali
What happened
Ms C is the beneficiary of her employers group income protection scheme. In April 2018
Ms C became absent from work due to back pain, sciatica and depression. In January 2019
she claimed on the policy.
In April 2019 Ms C attended a Chronic Pain Abilities Determination (CPAD) assessment
carried out by a qualified functional capacity evaluator. The report concluded Ms C was
exaggerating her symptoms and that there were inconsistencies in her reporting of her
symptoms. AGS declined the claim on the basis that Ms C didnt meet the definition of
incapacity set out in the policy. Ms C appealed but AGS maintained their decision to decline
the claim. Unhappy, Ms C complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Ms Cs complaint. She didnt
think that AGS had fairly declined the claim on the basis of the available evidence. In
summary the investigator concluded that the evidence provided by Ms Cs medical team was
more persuasive that a report that AGS had commissioned.
AGS didnt agree  they said theyd considered all the medical evidence and that there was 
no objective evidence that she met the policy definition of incapacity. So, I need to make a
decision.
In March 2021 I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AGS has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Its for Ms C to demonstrate that she had a valid claim under the policy. In order to do 
so she needed to meet the policy definition of incapacity as set out in the policy 
schedule. It says that a member of the scheme is incapacitated if:
As a result of illness of injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and
Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other Work
or occupation.
I dont think it was reasonable for AGS to reject Ms Cs claim based on the available
evidence for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
In Ms Cs claim form she explained that her job required concentration and that pain 
made it difficult to stay in the same position and to focus. She explained that her job 
needed her to spend a prolonged period in one posture and involved focusing on 
work. She explained that she was taking antidepressants and pain relief medication. 
And, she detailed two treatments shed had for her back pain during 2018 and 
treatment she was waiting to receive.
In their response to our investigators opinion AGS said it didnt dispute that Ms C 
had ongoing back and leg pain or depression. But they didnt accept that it was of 
such severity that it prevented her from totally carrying out the material and 
substantial duties of her occupation.
In June 2018, shortly after Ms C became absent from work, Ms Cs consultant 
psychiatrist described her as clinically depressed and started her on a course of anti-
depressants. He queried whether Ms Cs pain was psychological in origin and set out 
the various treatment options which had previously been explored. A report from the 
same consultant dated March 2019 said:
In terms of her current symptoms, she continues to experience emotional, 
cognitive and biological depressive symptoms with pervasive low mood, 
pessimism, loss of pleasure, feelings of guilt, negative cognitive distortions, 
self-dislike and self criticalness, loss of energy, tiredness sand (sic) fatigue, 
trouble making decisions and indecisiveness, coupled with concentration 
difficulties, insomnia and loss of appetite.
She continues to meet the diagnostic criteria for a Severe Depressive 
Episode, as detailed above
He explained that hed recently made changes to Ms Cs medication and referred her 
for one to one therapy. He also concluded that her chronic depression had a 
significant negative impact on her ability to undertake normal daily activities and that 
her symptoms had a significantly negative effect on her tolerance and her ability to 
do such activities. I note that Ms C has been engaged with her treatment and has 
taken part in various physical and therapeutic treatments at the recommendation of 
her treating team. A report from July 2019 confirmed that Ms C remained on a high 
dose of medication and referred to the fact that it was used to treat severe 
depression.
By the time that Ms C took part in the CPAD shed been under the care of a 
consultant psychiatrist for around a year. She remained under the care of the 
psychiatrist who has continued to treat her for a severe depressive episode.
I dont think the April 2019 CPAD report properly addressed Ms Cs diagnosis of a 
severe depressive episode which was ongoing at that time. It included a mini mental 
health state examination (MMHE). The MMHE is quite a basic test involving simple 
recall and language skills, such as naming and repeating names of physical objects. 
The assessor noted that Ms C scored highly on the MMHE examination and that 
there was no evidence of cognitive impairment.
Ms Cs performance in the MMHE formed the basis for the assessors assertion that 
Ms C had exaggerated her disability in the more detailed tests which meant that the 
cognitive testing couldnt be considered as reliable. He went conclude that her 
performance in the testing wasnt reliable because:
Ms C performed with evidence of symptom exaggeration on both days of 
testing. This conclusion is based on nine of the domains being classified in 
either the low or very low percentile levels. These scores are comparable to patients suffering from brain injury, mental retardation and early dementia and 
not with those suffering from LB pain.
But the report wasnt completed by a mental health specialist and it didnt clearly or
comprehensively address the impact of her mental illness on her ability to work. The 
author of the report was an osteopath and accredited functional capability assessor 
but hes not a qualified mental health professional.
Ms C had a demanding professional role and she had a diagnosis of severe 
depression from a consultant psychiatrist. So, Im not persuaded that the CPAD 
alone gave AGS a meaningful insight into Ms Cs cognitive abilities in her insured 
occupation or insight into how her depression impacted on her ability to do her job. 
Taking all of the above into account I dont think it was fair that AGS concluded, on 
the basis of the above evidence, that Ms C didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity. I think that the evidence of her consultant psychiatrist detailed an ongoing 
period of severe depression which was being treated with medication and therapy. 
Ms C was actively engaging in that treatment. So I dont think the above report fairly 
or adequately addressed these issues.
Ms C also has ongoing issues with chronic pain. But I dont think I need to address 
this in my decision. That is because, on the basis of the available evidence about Ms 
Cs mental health, I dont think AGS fairly concluded she didnt meet the policy 
definition of incapacity.
Putting things right
Im intending to say that AGS needs to put things right by paying the policy benefit 
from the relevant claim start date. It should also add 8% simple interest from the date 
the claim was declined to the date of settlement.
Ms C ought to be aware that AGS is entitled to review the claim and that my decision 
doesnt represent a direction to pay the claim on an ongoing basis. My decision 
focuses on whether it was reasonable for them to decline the claim based on the 
available evidence at the time. For the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think it 
was.
Ms C accepted my provisional decision but raised concerns about whether any future 
assessment carried out by the insurer would be fair. 
AGS provided further comments. In summary, they said: 
They were disappointed that I hadnt made findings in relation to Ms Cs chronic pain 
The objective of the CPAD is to determine, using objective measures, the ability of 
the policyholder to return to their usual occupation  hence there wasnt a need for 
the person completing the assessment to be a mental health specialist 
The CPAD shouldnt be pitted against the consultants report  
It wasnt appropriate that I didnt comment on the chronic pain element given that this 
gave rise to the claim and because there was a relationship between the chronic pain 
and Ms Cs depression 
They agreed with my comments in relation to their right to review the claim. So, I now need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision AGS has a responsibility to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.  The further comments made by 
AGS havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint for the reasons Ill 
go on to explain: 
Ive taken into account AGSs comments about the scope and purpose of the CPAD. 
But, as Ive outlined in my provisional decision I dont think that a report of this nature 
adequately addressed the significant mental health issues that Ms Cs consultant 
referred to
I appreciate that AGS feel the consultants report has been pitted against the CPAD 
report but thats not the case. My role is to weigh up the evidence to decide what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And, as I explained in my provisional 
decision I didnt think the CPAD alone gave a meaningful insight into Ms Cs 
cognitive abilities in relation to her insured occupation or how her depression 
impacted on her ability to do her job. For example, it was open to AGS to obtain a 
more comprehensive independent report by a mental health professional to address 
some of the issues Ms Cs consultant had raised in addition to the CPAD. In reaching 
that conclusion Ive taken into account that Ms C had provided persuasive evidence 
from a consultant that she was experiencing an ongoing severe depressive episode, 
for which she was continuing to receive treatment
AGS said theyd appreciate my further comments in relation to Ms Cs chronic pain. 
Its for me to determine what findings I think are necessary in the circumstances of 
each case. I remain satisfied that the evidence presented by Ms C demonstrated that 
it was most likely that she was experiencing a mental health condition during the 
relevant period and that it meant she met the definition of incapacity set out in the 
policy. And, whilst Ms C had another reason to claim, Im satisfied based on the 
evidence in relation to her mental health condition that it is most likely she had a valid 
claim under the policy. So Im not making any further findings in relation to Ms Cs 
chronic pain
I can understand why Ms C is concerned about future reviews of her condition. But, if 
she has any further concerns about the handling of the claim, including future 
reviews, she is entitled to bring a further complaint to our service. 
Putting things right
AGS needs to put things right by paying the policy benefit from the relevant claim start date. 
It should also add 8% simple interest from the date the claim was declined to the date of 
settlement.
 
My final decision
Im upholding Ms Cs complaint against Assicurazioni Generali SpA trading as
Generali and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman