DRN-4259546
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) offered a new product on 
an online only basis, which he feels made it difficult for him to apply for and is discriminatory 
against people who dont have online access or arent comfortable operating online. 
What happened
In February 2023, Mr B called NS&I to ask about a Guaranteed Income Bond (GIB) being 
offered by NS&I but was told that the GIB could only be opened online. Several days later, 
Mr B called NS&I again to complain that hed learned that the GIB could be opened over the 
phone as hed wanted. NS&I opened a GIB for him while he was on the phone and told him 
how he could deposit money into the GIB via either a mail or telephone process. Mr B wasnt 
happy with the service he was receiving from NS&I and felt that the GIB opening process 
was unnecessarily complicated for non-online consumers. So, he raised a complaint. 
NS&I responded to Mr B and explained that the agent hed spoken with on his initial call had 
incorrectly told him that the GIB could only be opened online because they were acting on 
incorrect information given by NS&I to their agents. NS&I apologised to Mr B for this and 
made a payment of £25 to him as compensation for the upset and trouble hed incurred.
NS&I also confirmed that the information given to Mr B on the later call, where the options 
for Mr B to deposit money into his GIB by a postal or telephone method, had been correct. 
And NS&I confirmed that they were offering the GIB on an online-only because the majority 
of their customers accessed their products online and said that they didnt feel that theyd 
acted in a discriminatory way by doing so. Mr B wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that NS&I had offered a 
reasonable alternative to Mr B by opening a GIB for him on the telephone and by explaining 
how he could deposit money into his GIB via post or telephone. But they did feel that the 
provision of incorrect information to Mr B on the initial call, as well as the general standard of 
service provided to him by NS&Is agents, had caused Mr B to incur a degree of upset and 
inconvenience that he reasonably shouldnt have. So, our investigator recommended that 
NS&I should pay a further £100 compensation to Mr B for this.
NS&I didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forward by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the recordings of the calls between Mr B and NS&Is agents. These include 
the initial call on 2 February 2023, when Mr B called NS&I and was told that the GIB could 
only be opened online, and the calls when Mr B called NS&I back on 8 February 2023 to 
complain, after learning that it was in fact possible to open a GIB over the phone.
It's for a business to decide how it will market and offer its products. And given that the 
majority of NS&Is account holders access their accounts online, I dont feel that its 
unreasonable or unfair for NS&I to offer products on an online only basis, with the caveat 
being that it would be fairly expected that NS&I would offer reasonable adjustments for 
customers who arent able to access that product online.
NS&I have explained that the reason Mr B received the wrong information about not being 
able to open a GIB over the phone on 2 February was because, while the GIB product was 
released for sale on 1 February 2023, the correct guidance about the GIB wasnt distributed 
to their advisors until 3 February 2023. And NS&I explain that this means that when Mr B 
spoke with NS&Is agent on 2 February, that person provided Mr B with the correct advice as 
per that agents understanding of the GIB product at that time.
But if NS&I release a product to market before they educate their telephony agents about the 
features of that product, then any incorrect advice that their agents provide to NS&Is 
customers, including Mr B, is clearly the result of NS&Is own failure to educate their staff 
about that product before the products release.
Accordingly, its clear to me that Mr B did incur a degree of trouble and inconvenience that 
he reasonably shouldnt have had to incur here. And this is because NS&I didnt ensure that 
their agents understood the features of the GIB at the point of the GIBs release  including 
that it could be opened over the phone if a customer couldnt open it online, as Mr B couldnt. 
Given the incorrect information that Mr B received from NS&I that the GIB could only be 
opened online, I can understand why he might have felt that NS&I were discriminating 
against non-online customers. But given that its since been confirmed that the option is 
available to non-online customers to open the GIB via an alternative channel, I hope that 
hell understand why I dont feel that that NS&I are acting unfairly in this regard.
Unfortunately, the adverse impact of NS&Is misinformation error on Mr B was compounded 
by the rude conduct of their agent who Mr B spoke with first upon calling NS&I back on 8 
February. NS&I feel that the agent in question handled Mr Bs call in a polite and friendly 
manner. However, having listened to the call in question I strongly disagree, and I feel that 
NS&Is agent was rude and combative towards Mr B from the outset. And I feel that NS&Is 
agents unprofessionalism in this regard sadly set the tone for the rest of the conversation.
Accordingly, for the trouble, frustration, and upset that Im satisfied Mr B unreasonably and 
unfairly experienced here because of NS&Is errors and the poor conduct of one of their 
staff, Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Bs favour and instructing NS&I to make a 
payment of £100 compensation to him. This £100 compensation is payable in addition to the 
£25 compensation that NS&I had previously offered Mr B, so that a total of £125 
compensation is payable to him.
Putting things right
NS&I must make pay a further £100 to Mr B, so that a total of £125 compensation is payable 
to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Savings and Investments on 
the basis explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman