DRN-1415954
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain HSBC Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs C in 1997. The policy 
provided Mr and Mrs C with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If HSBC gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs?
-           Did HSBC give Mr and Mrs C the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs C are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs C say they were given the impression they had to buy the PPI to get the 
mortgage they wanted, and that HSBC put them under pressure to buy it. They say the bank 
didnt give them a proper choice. I've noted everything Mr and Mrs C have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs C and 
HSBC when the mortgage was arranged.HSBC hasnt provided much information from the point of sale, as these events occurred 
over 20 years ago. This isnt surprising and its similar to some other cases Ive seen. Im 
also mindful that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
HSBC has been able to provide a copy of Mr and Mrs C's mortgage application, and this 
included a section about PPI. It seems the cover was free for the first six months. The form 
was completed to show that Mr and Mrs C wanted to take the cover. There was a box in the 
same section of the form that could've been ticked if they hadn't wanted the PPI. In addition, 
there is nothing in the mortgage application to suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of 
borrowing.
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs C have told me, I don't think I can fairly 
or reasonably say that HSBC didn't make them aware that the PPI was optional.
HSBC has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs C to take out the policy and it doesnt look 
like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I 
say this because:
-           Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
-           Mr and Mrs C say they were entitled to employer benefits if they couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to their employer benefits 
and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mr and Mrs 
C could use their employer benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think the policy wouldve 
been useful to them.
-           Mr and Mrs C werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely 
they needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-          I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs C before they agreed 
to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs C 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs C werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs C would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman