DRN-3585374
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera 
Financial Services (BMW) dealt with his request for assistance as a result of ill health.
What happened
On 6 November 2019, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW. The agreement was for £55,000 over 60 months; with monthly 
repayments of £1,071.35.
Mr Hs financial circumstances changed due to ill health and he contacted BMW in March 
2022, asking for a payment deferral and for interest on his agreement to be suspended. 
BMW explained that this wasnt something they were able to offer, but they passed his 
information over to a specialist team who deal with financial difficulties.
The specialist team contacted Mr H in late April 2022, and again explained they couldnt 
offer what Mr H wanted. However, they explained his termination options and the possibility 
of a reduced payment plan following a review of his finances. They also explained how this 
would impact his credit file.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and complained to BMW. While BMW apologised for the delay 
in the specialist team contacting him, they didnt think theyd misadvised Mr H about what 
they were able to do. And they said they had an obligation to report accurate information 
about his account to the credit reference agencies. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more.
Mr H wasnt happy with BMWs response, and he brought his complaint to the financial 
ombudsman service for investigation.
Our investigator said, while thered been a delay in the specialist team contacting Mr H, she 
thought the apology they gave was reasonable. And she thought that, while it wasnt the 
option Mr H wanted, BMW had provided him with accurate information about his account, 
what they were able to do, and the effect this would have on his credit file. So, she didnt 
think that BMW needed to do anything differently.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He thinks BMW referring to normal circumstances 
was misleading as it gave the impression that his situation wasnt normal, so would be 
treated differently. And the fact that his case was transferred to the specialist team only 
served to back up this impression. So, he believed there were other options available to him, 
and the payment deferral and suspension of interest hadnt been ruled out.
Mr H also said that BMW failed to contact him before his March 2022 payment was due, so 
he didnt have any clarity on how to proceed  he was trying to act responsibly and avoid 
any impact on his credit file. Because Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, this has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Having reviewed the evidence in this matter, Ive seen that BMW provided Mr H with a six-
month payment deferral in 2020, when his income had been affected by the coronavirus 
(Covid-19) pandemic. BMW were able to provide this under the guidance put in place by the 
Financial Conduct Authority at the time. And, under this guidance, although interest was still 
charged, the deferred payments werent reported as arrears to the credit reference agencies.
It's important to note that this was a temporary measure that was only applicable for a limited 
period of time, and only available for the financial affects of Covid-19. This deferral wasnt 
available for other circumstances.
Mr H first contacted BMW about his current situation on 14 March 2022. And he asked if 
BMW were able to offer a three-month payment deferral to cover the payments due in 
March, April, and May 2022, without any additional interest being charged.
Ive listened to the call that took place between Mr H and BMW on 18 March 2022. In this 
call Mr H explained that he needed to take three months off work, for medical reasons, and 
that this was going to impact him financially. He also explained that he wanted a payment 
deferral for three or four months, and that he didnt think it would be fair if additional interest 
was charged on the deferred payments. In response to this, BMW said:
So, given normal circumstances  well first off we dont actually offer payment deferrals, 
that was a government backed scheme kind of at the peak of coronavirus, however that has 
now ceased action. We do have other options which, again, usually it would kind of be end 
of contract given the circumstances, given kind of the fact that youve already got an 
outstanding balance on your account. 
However, given your circumstances we do actually have a team of advisers, so theres two 
or three advisers within the collections and recovery team, that essentially deal with kind of 
you know sensitive cases, or cases that arent you know the norm, as in you know if maybe 
perhaps there are kind of health conditions, or like yourself where you need time off work 
due to you know personal reasons. 
So, if possible, what Im going to do is Im gonna contact somebody on that team who 
essentially instead of kind of dealing with all the incoming calls they can specifically deal with 
yourself and kind of talk through, look at your options, and kind of put a little bit more you 
know so that you know all your options and theyre able to, given your circumstances, kind of 
look at what else is available for you if the payment deferral isnt.BMW went on to say that they would ask a member of the specialist team to contact Mr H. 
Mr H asked if this could take place before the next payment was due, as he wanted any 
deferment to start from that payment. BMW said theyd pass it over as an urgent request 
and, while they couldnt promise when the team would be in contact, they hoped it would be 
in the next working day or two.
BMW concluded the call by confirming to Mr H that just with regard to the payment deferral, 
that was a government backed scheme and unfortunately that has ceased action but should 
there be kind of other options theyll be able to discuss that, go through it with you, and kind 
of pick the best option for yourself with you. 
Based on this conversation, while BMW had referred to if the payment deferral isnt 
available during the call, they clearly stated both at the outset and the end of the call that 
payment deferrals werent available. And that other options needed to be considered. So, 
while I appreciate that Mr H mayve interpreted what he told to mean that a payment deferral 
may be one of the other options that was available to him, Im satisfied that BMW made it 
reasonably clear that this wasnt the case. 
Ive seen that BMW referred the case to their specialist team the same day and asked them 
to contact Mr H before 26 March 2022. They also emailed Mr H to let him know that their 
specialist team will be in touch with him. However, they didnt say how long this would take, 
nor did they tell Mr H that he didnt need to continue making payments in the meantime.
BMWs contact notes show that on 23 March 2022 there was an unsuccessful attempt to call 
Mr H. But they didnt try again. As such, the specialist team didnt contact Mr H before the 
March 2022 payment was due. And Mr H didnt make this payment.
Mr H chased BMW, and on 2 April 2022 they emailed to tell him that his case was under 
review and the specialist team would be in contact with him as soon as possible. Mr H 
chased BMW for an update on a few more occasions during April and, after another 
unsuccessful attempt to contact him, the specialist team emailed Mr H on 26 April 2022.
This email apologised for the length of time it had taken to get in touch with him but 
reiterated that they werent able to offer a payment deferral. However, they explained there 
will be no added interest charges for these missed payments although they may start to 
impact your credit file. BMW also advised Mr H that they could offer him a reduced payment 
plan, subject to affordability checks, due to his exceptional circumstances.
In reply, Mr H said that he was originally told that a deferment plan could be put in place, and 
that he wanted his account put on hold and assurance that his credit score wouldnt be 
impacted. The payment that was due on 26 April 2022 was also missed.
This email was followed by a period of contact between Mr H and BMW, where BMW offered 
reduced payment plans, and confirmed his termination options. But Mr H wasnt happy with 
the offers made, and wanted a payment deferral, with any missed payments removed from 
his credit file.
It's not disputed that Mr H contacted BMW ahead of his March 2022 payment falling due, in 
an attempt to sort out a resolution before any payments were missed. And, by BMWs 
specialist team not contacting him until 26 April 2022  the day the April payment was due  
payments had already been missed.
However, I also need to consider what would most likely have happened if the specialist 
team had contacted Mr H before the March payment was due, which is what the advisor he 
spoke to on 18 March 2022 asked them to do.Had Mr H been contacted sooner, this wouldnt have changed what they were able to offer 
him. And, while Mr H believed that a payment deferral would be available, this wasnt the 
case. And Ive seen nothing to show me that BMW wouldve been able to offer this had they 
contacted him in March 2022.
What was available to Mr H in March 2022 was the same as what BMW offered in April 2022 
i.e. his termination options and a reduced payment plan following a review of his financial 
circumstances. However, as Mr H only wanted a full payment deferral, and he didnt take the 
option of the reduced payment arrangement when it was offered to him in April 2022; Im 
satisfied that he also wouldnt have taken this option in March 2022.
Because of this, the payments would still have been missed, and Mr Hs credit file would still 
have been impacted. Whats more, even if a reduced payment arrangement had been in 
place from March 2022, as the full payment wasnt being made, Mr Hs credit file would still 
have been impacted.
So, its for these reasons I dont think the delay in the specialist team contacting him has 
impacted Mr H any more than no delay wouldve done. And, given this, and while I 
appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr H, Im satisfied the apology already 
provided by BMW is sufficient, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman