DRN-3260539
The complaint
Mr C complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited mishandled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Watford, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Watford 
responsible for their actions. 
What happened
For the year from December 2019, Mr C insured a car with Watford. Mr C bought his 
daughter another car of which she was the registered keeper. 
In October 2020, Mr C asked Watford to change the car insured on his policy. He took his 
old car off the policy and added his daughters car. 
For the year from December 2020, Mr C renewed the policy. 
On 12 March 2021, the car was in an accident. A third party made a claim. At Watfords 
request, Mr C sent it the vehicle registration document V5. Seeing that it was in his 
daughters name, Watford declined to cover Mr C. Mr C complained to Watford.
By a letter dated 6 April 2021, Watford gave notice that it was cancelling the policy with 
effect form 13 April 2021. By a final response dated 13 April 2021, Watford turned down the 
complaint.
By a letter dated 21 May 2021, Watford told Mr C it had been obliged to settle the third 
partys claim for their vehicle and associated costs, totalling nearly £3,000.00. Watford asked 
Mr C to reimburse it. Mr C brought his complaint to us a few days later.
In August 2021, Watford told Mr C that the third party had made an injury claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
didnt think that Watford had done anything wrong.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Originally, he purchased the car for his daughter. 
In 2020, he sold his car and temporarily replaced it with his daughters car until he 
could buy another car. 
He made a single genuine mistake.
He didnt update the log book. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the relevant law including Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Ive looked carefully at the information Watford has provided about the online journey Mr C 
had when he changed the car on the policy to his daughters car. From a screenshot, Im 
satisfied that Watford asked Mr C who was the Owner of the car and separately who was 
the  Keeper of the car. Im satisfied that those questions were clear. Mr C said that he was 
the owner and the keeper of the car.
But Mr C later said he had bought the car for his daughter and she was the owner. In any 
event, Mr C wasnt the registered keeper with DVLA. So Mr C had made misrepresentations.
Hed bought the car for his daughter. And he mustve known that the V5 was in her name. 
So Im not satisfied that he took reasonable care to avoid making misrepresentations that he 
was the owner and the keeper of the car. Indeed I  find that his misrepresentation about the 
keeper was reckless as to the truth.
Most insurers wilI only insure a car of which the policyholder or a spouse is the owner and 
registered keeper. 
So I accept Watfords statement that, if Mr C had said his daughter was the owner and 
registered keeper, Watford wouldnt have issued the insurance policy to Mr C. So I accept 
that Mr C had made  qualifying misrepresentations under CIDRA.
As hed made qualifying misrepresentations, I consider that CIDRA entitled Watford to treat 
the policy as having been void from the start. So I dont consider that Watford treated Mr C 
unfairly by declining his claim. 
As Watford couldve treated the policy as void from the start, I dont consider that Watford 
treated Mr C unfairly by sending a seven-day notice that it was cancelling his policy (and not 
following it up with confirmation of the cancellation). 
As Ive found a reckless misrepresentation, and as Watford had to deal with the third partys 
claim, I dont consider that Watford treated Mr C unfairly by asking him to reimburse its 
outlay. And I wouldnt expect Watford to refund any of the premium for the year. 
In conclusion, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Watford to pay the claim or to 
reinstate the policy or to stop asking Mr C to reimburse its outlay. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman