DRN-3711473
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim they made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M hold travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In November 2021, Mr and Mrs M booked a trip abroad. They were due to travel between 27 
and 30 December 2021. 
However, on the day of their departure, Mrs M was contacted by NHS Test and Trace to let 
her know that shed been in close contact with someone whod been diagnosed with Covid-
19. She says she was told she needed to self-isolate until shed taken a PCR test. Mr and 
Mrs M ordered PCR tests but werent able to arrange them ahead of travel. So they 
cancelled their trip and made a claim on their travel insurance policy. They carried out PCR 
tests on 29 December 2021, which both returned positive results. 
Initially, AWP told Mr and Mrs M that their claim would be covered. But it ultimately turned 
down the claim. Thats because it said that the PCR tests were taken after their planned 
departure date and there was no evidence that Mr and Mrs M hadnt been fit to travel as 
planned on 27 December 2021. It did offer Mr and Mrs M £30 compensation for its handling 
of the claim.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He noted that the 
policy covered claims for a policyholders illness. While he acknowledged Mr and Mrs M 
didnt take PCR tests until after their planned departure date, he felt itd been fair to say that 
Mr and Mrs M had been unfit to travel due to contracting Covid-19. So he recommended that 
AWP should pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim, plus interest, together with the compensation of £30 
itd already offered.
Mr and Mrs M accepted the investigators assessment. But AWP didnt. It said that the 
evidence Mr and Mrs M had provided didnt fit the policy wording. So the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for AWP to turn down Mr and Mrs Ms claim and Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy and the available evidence, to decide whether AWP 
handled this claim fairly.
Ive first looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, as these form 
the basis of their contract with AWP. Section 1  Cancellation or curtailment sets out the 
specific, listed events AWP covers if a policyholder needs to cancel or cut short their trip. 
This list includes the following insured events:
The death, bodily injury or illness, as certified by a doctor, of you, your travelling 
companion, or a relative of yours or your travelling companion (including being 
diagnosed with an epidemic or pandemic disease such as COVID-19).
You, or a travelling companion being held in quarantine by order or another 
requirement of a government or public authority, based on their suspicion that you, or 
a travelling companion, specifically, have been exposed to a contagious disease 
(including an epidemic or pandemic disease such as COVID-19).
Section 1 also includes a list of special conditions which applies to claims. One of these 
says:
You must also provide us with.confirmation from a doctor that you or your travelling 
companion are not fit to travel.
AWP concluded that Mr and Mrs M hadnt provided enough evidence to show that they 
werent fit to travel. So Ive considered whether I think this was a fair conclusion for AWP to 
draw.
Its common ground that Mr and Mrs M werent able to obtain PCR tests ahead of their 
departure date. Instead, they took tests on 29 December 2021, which showed they were 
positive for the virus. Theyd planned to already be abroad by this date. So strictly, I accept 
that there is no medical evidence to show that Mr and Mrs M werent fit to travel on 27 
December 2021.
However, I can depart from a strict interpretation of the contract terms if I think their 
application produces an unfair result. And thats the case here, as Ill go on to explore. 
Mr and Mrs M have provided a screenshot of the notification that Mrs M received from NHS 
Test and Trace on 27 December  the day they were due to travel. I can see from AWPs 
records that Mr M called AWP on that morning to let it know that Mrs M had been pinged, 
needed to isolate and that theyd ordered PCR tests. He said they would need to cancel their 
trip. Mrs M says that she was told shed need to self-isolate until shed taken a PCR test, 
which, at that point, was English law for some groups. This meant that for some people, self-
isolation was mandatory until the results of a PCR test were known. As such, it seems to me 
that there could be a reasonable argument to say that Mrs M was effectively quarantined 
when she received the Test and Trace notification.
Even if Im wrong on this point though, I find that its most likely that Mr and Mrs M had 
contracted Covid-19 ahead of their departure and were therefore medically unfit to travel. I 
say that because two days later, they both tested positive for Covid-19. Theyve provided 
evidence of their test results. So I think, on balance, it was more likely than not that theyd 
contracted the virus before their planned departure. Accordingly, I find their claim should 
fairly be covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M werent able to undergo PCR tests on the day they were due to 
travel and it seems they organised postal tests. At that point though, there was very high demand for PCR testing at both test centres and postal tests, due to the impact of the 
omicron variant. So I cant fairly say that Mr and Mrs M could definitely or even most likely 
have been tested for Covid-19 on 27 December 2021. This means there was potentially little 
chance that they couldve provided AWP with clear evidence that theyd been diagnosed 
with Covid-19 ahead of their departure date. And at that time, PCR results generally took at 
least 24 hours to be returned. So it seems to me that even if Mr and Mrs M had undergone 
testing at a test centre on 27 December 2021, they were unlikely to have received the results 
ahead of their planned departure and still wouldnt have been in a position to travel.
Overall, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for AWP to accept and 
pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of their contract. It 
must add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date of claim 
until the date of settlement. And it must also pay Mr and Mrs M compensation of £30 for its 
claims handling errors, which its already offered to pay, and which Mr and Mrs M have 
accepted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy and any applicable excess. It must add interest to the settlement at 
an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also direct AWP to pay Mr and Mrs M £30 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman