DRN-1519176
Complaint 
Mr T complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 2001. 
When the PPI was sold, Canada Square Operations Limited was trading as Egg. To keep 
things simple, Ill refer mainly to Egg for the rest of this decision. 
Background
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, Mr 
T disagreed with that view. He reiterated what Egg said in its final response letter in dthat 
there were flaws in its sales process. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
I can see that Mr T understood that hed been sold PPI when he completed a leaflet. 
However, Ive been provided with a copy of Eggs electronic records that are available from 
the time. Having considered those records, I think its more likely that Mr T applied for PPI 
online at the same time as he applied for his credit card. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr T would have known that the PPI was optional 
and that he didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. Ive been provided with screenshots of 
what Mr T would have seen when he applied for his credit card. I can see that he would have 
been presented with two equally prominent boxes to select  one to say he wanted PPI and 
another to say he didnt. I dont think Mr T would have been able to progress his application 
unless one of those boxes was selected. And I think it would have been clear to him that he 
could have chosen the no box if he wanted to. Im satisfied that its most likely Mr T chose 
to buy the PPI policy, knowing he could decline it. 
Egg had to give Mr T enough information about the PPI so he could decide for himself 
whether it was a good fit for his needs. That information had to be fair, clear and not 
misleading. As Mr T pointed out, Egg acknowledged there were flaws in its sales process. 
And I can see how the information Mr T was provided with could have been clearer. But that 
doesnt mean Mr Ts complaint would be automatically upheld. 
The reason for that is I have to now consider what Mr T would have most likely done if Egg 
had told him everything it should have done. To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought about what Mr T told us about 
his personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if Mr T would have made a claim on the policy, 10% of his credit card balance 
would have been repaid for every month he was out of work up to a maximum of 12 months. 
Turning now to Mr Ts personal circumstances, I can see there has been some inconsistency 
in the information that was provided. In the PPI questionnaire to Egg, Mr T said that he 
would have received between three and six months sick pay. He said he would have had 
three months full pay and three months half pay. However, in the same questionnaire to this 
service, Mr T said he would have received between six and twelve months pay and that he 
would have received six months full pay. To be fair to Mr T, I have taken his sick pay at its 
highest of six months full pay. 
As to his other means, in his first PPI questionnaire, Mr T told Egg that he didnt have any 
other means with which to make repayments. He told this service that he had savings. When 
our adjudicator made enquiries, she established that Mr Ts savings were the equivalent of 
less than one months salary. 
So with all of that in mind, I think the PPI would have paid out for longer than Mr Ts full pay 
would have lasted. And with this cover, he could have used his savings on his other 
essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for him if he 
did find himself out of work. 
Mr T told us that he was in good health when he bought this PPI cover, so I dont he would 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual about his wider circumstances that would have stopped him from 
being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
Overall, I think the cover could have been helpful to Mr T if he was out of work. And as I set 
out above, I think he chose to buy the PPI  so it looks as though he wanted this type of 
cover at the time. All in all, I think Mr T would have still chosen to buy this policy even if hed 
been given more or better information about it. 
As I said, Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but it follows that I havent upheld his complaint. I 
dont require Egg to take any further action in respect of it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Canada Square Operations Limited.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman