DRN-3117942
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) didnt uphold a 
chargeback claim that he raised with them.
What happened
Mr R used his Amex card to rent a car overseas. Unfortunately, the rental car was involved 
in an accident, and after Mr R returned the rental car the rental company charged £467.69 to 
his Amex card for the damages.
Mr R contacted Amex and raised a charge back claim. He explained that the rental company 
had told him that if he obtained a police report then he wouldnt be charged for the damages 
to the car. Amex raised the chargeback claim at Mr Rs request, but the rental company 
provided confirmation to Amex that Mr R had signed to confirm acceptance of the damages. 
Because of this, the chargeback claim was unsuccessful. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so 
he raised a complaint.
Amex looked at Mr Rs complaint, but they felt that theyd closed the chargeback claim 
correctly given the evidence theyd received from the rental company, and to they didnt 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Amexs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Amex hadnt acted unfairly 
by closing the chargeback claim as being unsuccessful, and so they also didnt uphold this 
complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback claim is a process by which some disputes are resolved between the card 
issuer and merchants, in this case the rental company, under the relevant scheme rules. 
In this instance, Amex did raise a chargeback claim, and following that claim the rental 
company provided evidence to Amex which documented that Mr R had signed a form 
acknowledging responsibility for the damages incurred on the rental car.
Amex then sent a letter to Mr R including the document that the rental company had 
provided and gave Mr R the opportunity to put forward any counter evidence that may have 
allowed Amex to challenge the rental companies defence of the chargeback claim.
But Mr R didnt initially provide any counter evidence to Amex, and when he did provide such 
evidence, Amex considered it but still didnt feel that it meant that the chargeback claim 
should be successful, as per their chargeback rules.
Amex have explained that their decision here was based partly on the basis that Mr R hadnt 
provided any compelling evidence to explain why his providing a police report to the rental 
company would result in him no longer being eligible to pay damages for which hed already 
acknowledged responsibility.
Amexs position here seems reasonable to me, and while Mr R has provided this service 
with a screenshot of a message conversation with the rental company  which suggests that 
Mr R was told that if he provided a police report then he wouldnt be charged for the 
damages  Mr R has confirmed that this same screenshot wasnt provided to Amex during 
the dispute process. And so I dont feel that I can fairly censure Amex for not considering 
that information, given that it wasnt provided to them.
I must also note that Im not convinced that even had Amex received the screenshot in 
question from Mr R that it would necessarily have changed the outcome of the chargeback 
complaint, and this is because I dont feel that the language used in the conversation 
included on the screenshot provides clear evidence that Mr R was told by the rental 
company that he wouldnt be charged for the damages if he provided a police report, but 
instead I feel that it merely suggests this point.
Finally, Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the rental agreement and Ive been unable 
to find anything within those terms that confirms that a customer wouldnt be charged for 
damages if a police report is provided.
As such, Im satisfied that it was fair for Amex to find in favour of the rental company in 
regard to this chargeback claim, and this is because I dont feel that Amex were supplied 
with evidence from Mr R sufficient for them to have found against the rental company, who in 
turn had provided a reasonable explanation to Amex as to why the chargeback claim 
shouldnt be successful  in the form of the document signed by Mr R where he accepted 
responsibility for the damage.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that Amex have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Amex to take any further action at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr R was wanting, but I trust that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman