DRN-4525341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about delays when they applied to port their mortgage with Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. They originally asked Barclays for compensation of £1,000. Mr S says, on 
reflection, compensation of £2,500 is more reasonable. This takes into account their stress, 
his time spent chasing Barclays and the time and costs involved in applying elsewhere. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S wanted to move home and started a porting application with Barclays. Their 
first property purchase fell through. Their sale proceeded with completion scheduled for late 
January 2023. Mr and Mrs S found a property to buy in mid-December 2022. This was a new 
build property and the developer reserved the property for them until 3 February 2023. They 
arranged to move into rented accommodation for when their sale completed.
Mr and Mrs S completed a porting application with Barclays on 19 December 2022. Barclays 
had IT problems which meant the valuation wasnt carried out until 23 January 2023. 
Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 6 February 2023. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt lose the property they wanted to buy. But they say they had difficulty 
contacting Barclays to find out what was happening and this was stressful. They say it ought 
to allow customers to call the valuations team and underwriters direct for urgent applications.
Barclays said there was a problem instructing the valuation and its communication with Mr 
and Mrs S was poor. It offered £400 for the upset and inconvenience this caused. Our 
investigator said this was fair.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Mr S said £400 isnt enough for the time he spent chasing 
Barclays and the stress of possibly losing their purchase. 
In late March 2023 Mr and Mrs S cancelled their application with Barclays and applied 
elsewhere. They told us this was because they needed the mortgage offer to be valid to the 
end of June 2023. Barclays mortgage offer was valid to early June 2023. Mr S said Barclays 
had told them theyd have to ask about extending it nearer the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S completed a new porting application with Barclays on 19 December 2022. 
In early January 2023 the property developer told Mr and Mrs S the valuation hadnt been 
carried out and reminded them of the reservation end date. The property developer wrote to 
Mr and Mrs S again in early February 2023, saying the deadline was missed but it hoped 
they wanted to continue and asked them to call the sales adviser.
Barclays valuer inspected the property on 23 January 2023 and issued a valuation report 
the next day. Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 6 February 2023. This was valid until 
1 June 2023. 
Barclays accepts that problems with its IT system led to a delay of two to three weeks in the 
mortgage offer being issued. It also said its communication had been poor and offered £400 
compensation.
Barclays says Mr and Mrs S told it at the end of March 2023 they didnt want to proceed but 
didnt say why. Barclays refunded the £999 product fee, in accordance with the product 
terms.
When deciding if the compensation offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable, Ive taken the 
following into account.
Mr and Mrs S reserved a property until 3 February 2023  the developer asked that they 
exchange contracts by that date. Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 6 February 2023, the 
next working day after 3 February 2023. 
Mr and Mrs S had agreed to sell their property, their first property purchase fell through, and 
they were worried about losing the property theyd found to buy. While this must have been 
stressful, Barclays wasnt solely responsible for this situation.
If Barclays had instructed a valuation sooner, it would most likely have issued a mortgage 
offer sooner. Im not sure that this would have changed the outcome in any significant way.
I havent seen evidence that the only reason contracts werent exchanged before 3 February 
2023 was the delay with the mortgage offer. But, in any case, it seems Mr and Mrs S didnt 
lose the property. 
It seems Mr and Mrs Ss purchase wasnt due to complete until June 2023  some six 
months after they made their porting application to Barclays. Its not clear when they became 
aware of this. But if Barclays hadnt caused delays with the valuation the mortgage offer 
would still have expired before their purchase was due to complete. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S were in a difficult position. They had to decide whether to apply 
elsewhere or wait and ask Barclays to extend the mortgage offer. But Barclays error with the 
valuation wasnt responsible for this. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays 
to compensate Mr and Mrs S for any fees and costs and additional time spent in applying to 
a different lender. 
Mr and Mrs S said their main complaint and reason for refusing the £400 offer is the stress 
and anxiety caused over several weeks in not being able to get Barclays to confirm its offer. 
Mr and Mrs S wanted Barclays to treat their application as urgent. But Barclays is entitled to 
make decisions about its policies and processes. I cant fairly require it to change its internal 
processes, such as allowing customers to call underwriters directly or an appointment 
system to call customers at pre-arranged times (if it doesnt offer this).
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ss frustration, and why they called Barclays for updates. But I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation at Mr Ss hourly 
rate for the time he spent on calls during working hours. 
Mr S says Barclays didnt explain the delay between the valuation and issuing the mortgage 
offer (about 10 working days). Perhaps the underwriting team could have reviewed the 
valuation report and issued a mortgage offer more quickly. But, as I said, any delay in the 
mortgage offer being issued didnt change the overall outcome. Mr and Mrs S were in a stressful situation. Theyd agreed to sell their property and were 
worried about losing the dream property theyd found. Barclays wasnt responsible for this 
situation and, as I said, I havent seen evidence that the only reason Mr and Mrs S didnt 
exchange contracts before 3 February 2023 was because of the mortgage offer. But the 
delay by Barclays in instructing a valuation and, therefore, issuing a mortgage offer would 
have added to Mr and Mrs Ss worry and stress. I think for the additional worry and 
inconvenience caused by Barclays delay and poor communication £400 compensation is 
fair and reasonable. 
Barclays says Mr and Mrs S told it at the end of March 2023 they didnt want to proceed but 
didnt say why. Mr and Mrs S told us they needed a mortgage offer which was valid to the 
end of June 2023. They say Barclays didnt agree to extend the mortgage offer in advance of 
its expiry date (1 June 2023) and this wasnt satisfactory to their solicitor. Mr and Mrs S were 
also unhappy with the service theyd received from Barclays and decided to apply to another 
lender. Any concerns Mr and Mrs S had about Barclays not agreeing to extend the mortgage 
offer wasnt part of the complaint raised with Barclays. This means I cant fairly look into that 
here. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £400 to Mr and Mrs S, as it offered to 
do (unless it has already made the payment). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman