DRN-2175276
The complaint
Mr A complains Insurance Factory Ltd trading as Ultimate Pet Partners (UPP) has unfairly 
charged him a fee for cancelling his two pet insurance policies before the end of their terms. 
Hes said he was told by the insurer (L) over the phone he wouldnt need to pay anything 
when he cancelled the policies. Reference to L includes its new administrator. 
What happened
Mr A took out two pet insurance policies in January 2019. The monthly premiums for both 
policies together was around £32. UPP acted as the broker and administrator of the policies 
for L. In December 2019, around a month before the insurance policies were due to end or 
be renewed, Mr A says he got in touch directly with L to let it know he wanted to cancel them 
before the end of the term. Hes said L told him there was nothing to pay as he hadnt made 
any claims on the policies and was cancelling before the final premiums were due. 
Following the call Mr A cancelled his direct debits for the policies. At that point UPP became 
aware the payment for the final premium hadnt been made. So it let Mr A know the policies 
would be cancelled if it didnt receive payment. As no payment was received, the policies 
were cancelled and UPP applied an administration charge of £30 in line with the terms. 
Mr A is unhappy with the charge being applied as he was told by L he wouldnt need to pay 
anything. UPP has said Mr A must have been given the wrong information and hed need to 
complain to L about that. It said it only charged one fee to cover both policies and gave Mr A 
the option of reinstating his policies and paying the final premium instead.
Mr A has told us this situation has caused him distress particularly as debt collection 
agencies have been in touch with him for the £30 at a difficult time. He thinks UPP should 
take responsibility for the information he was given over the phone as he thinks L is an 
agent of UPP. As the complaint wasnt resolved, he asked our service to look into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he thought Mr A shouldve been aware 
of UPPs cancellation terms already as it was outlined in the policy terms and conditions. 
And if hed been made aware of it by L, he either wouldve paid the fee or he wouldve 
chosen to continue the policy for the final month which wouldve been slightly more 
expensive than the administration fee. Mr A didnt agree with the investigators opinion so 
the case has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, Ill explain why. 
Ive looked carefully at the terms of the policy  they say UPP will charge an administration 
fee of £30 for cancelling a policy. As Mr A cancelled his policies before the end of their 
terms, Im satisfied UPP applied this charge correctly in line with its terms and conditions.  
Mr A has said he wouldve paid the administration charge if hed been told about it when he 
spoke to L. And he thinks UPP should take responsibility for the incorrect information he 
says L gave him (by waiving the fee). But where there are several businesses involved in 
insurance policies, it can be complicated to identify which one is responsible for what. 
According to the terms of these policies, UPP acts on Ls behalf in some matters  for 
example collecting payments and handling claims  and thats not unusual for an 
administrator. But that doesnt mean it automatically follows that L acts on UPPs behalf too. 
Ive carefully considered the terms  including the cancellation terms  to decide if it did in 
this case. And Im not satisfied UPP is responsible for the information L gave Mr A or that it 
was acting on UPPs behalf when it spoke to Mr A. I appreciate Mr A thinks L shouldve 
directed him to UPP if it wasnt its role to cancel the policy. But I think its clear from the 
policy terms Mr A needed to contact UPP to cancel the policy  and when he did so, there 
would be an administration charge. In any event, this along with the wrong information he 
thinks he was given is something he would need to complain directly to L about. 
Even if I was to uphold this complaint, Ive thought about the situation Mr A wouldve been in 
if things had happened as they should have. And I dont think he wouldve been any better 
off financially. I say this because, had L told Mr A he would need to pay a fee for cancelling 
the policies before the end of their terms, I think its more likely than not he wouldve decided 
to keep the policies running until the end of their terms instead which wouldve cost him 
more. Alternatively, as hes said, he wouldve just paid the cancellation fee.
I know if Mr A made the decision to keep his policies running, he wouldve had cover for an 
extra month. But I can see UPP did give him the choice to reinstate the policies and he 
chose not to. So it seems he thankfully didnt need the cover during that month.
I understand for Mr A this isnt simply about financial loss. Hes said hes suffered distress 
because of the situation and I appreciate he must feel disappointed to know he relied on 
incorrect information. But for the reasons Ive given, I cant say UPP has treated Mr A 
unfairly by charging the fee  particularly as I think its likely what has happened wouldve 
caused it more administrative difficulties than it ordinarily would have. Ant in any event, Im 
not persuaded UPP is responsible for whats happened and Mr A will need to complain to L 
directly. If he would like help with this, he can get in touch with our investigator.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
12 October 2020. 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman