DRN-4040760
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) has declined their
claim under their Building Warranty for damage to their home in respect of their master
bedroom and bathroom floors dropping, and cracks in the wall.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W made a claim to NHBC through their representative (a firm of consulting
engineers - P) in September 2020. This concerned sloping floors in their master bedroom
and bathroom. They also claimed for two cracks in the wall between the flashing and the
rear left-hand and right-hand upper windows.
NHBC carried out a site investigation. The claims investigator said that Whilst there was
some unevenness noted underfoot to the bathroom and bedroom floors there was no
indication of any failure of the structural elements of the floor, and no evidence of the floor
decking failing to support normal loads and as such no physical damage was noted and the
items of claim would not be considered valid.
In respect of the cracking to the outside walls the claims investigator said that as the policy
excludes minor cracking which does not affect the structural integrity or weather tightness of
the property, the claim wasnt covered. He saw that this cracking had been noted in a Home
Buyers report Mr and Mrs W had had prepared for them in December 2019 when they
bought the property. It didnt appear to have altered since then.
Mr and Mrs W had a report carried out by P which concluded that We believe that a claim is
valid with regards to the beam and floor. There is a defect within the floor and beam with
deflection of floor and cracking of rear brickwork due to an insufficiently designed beam.
NHBC carried out a desktop study following receipt of that report. It subsequently concluded
that the claim must be declined. It reiterated that though there was evidence that there was
some unevenness underfoot, there was no evidence that any physical damage had been 
caused. In respect of the external cracking it reiterated that this was minor damage and
excluded under the warranty.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator ultimately said that NHBC
should accept Mr and Mrs Ws claim for damage to the floors in the main bathroom and
master bedroom, as these floors had deflected to the point that packing is required. He said
that the claim for the external cracking was excluded.
NHBC disputed this  it said that the floors are out of level and not deflecting. Deflection is
the deformation of the structure when a load is placed on it, all materials deflect in this way
and will vary depending on load. There is no evidence that the floor is failing to support a
normal load. It further said that the evidence about the furniture being packed was not there
when its investigator visited the property.
P said that all three bedrooms should be included in the claim. However our Investigator
pointed out that the claim was only made for the master bedroom and bathroom. This was
confirmed by NHBC.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think that NHBC had carried out a 
sufficient investigation to establish, in respect of the floors, where there was a defect. So I 
said that NHBC should reconsider the claim and carry out such an investigation.
Both parties accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out below, in italics, my provisional findings. Where parts of those findings were 
originally in italics, I have also underlined them:
NHBC has said that the claim for the floors isnt covered because there is no physical
damage. There was no cracking and no evidence that it wasnt able to support normal loads.
I think I have to establish here what is physical damage and what is a Defect, since the
responses of both parties appear to me to confuse the two terms.
Under the terms of the warranty NHBC (my emphasis) will pay you the full Cost, if it is more
than £1,200 Indexed of putting right any physical damage to your Home which is caused by
a Defect. It then goes on to list the parts of the property to which this applies. This includes
load-bearing parts of the floors
Damage is defined as Physical damage to a Home caused by a Defect. The policy does
not go on to define physical damage.
Defect is defined as The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or
anyone employed by or acting for the Builder. Failure to follow the guidance supporting an
NHBC Requirement does not amount to a Defect if the performance required by the NHBC
Requirement is achieved by other means.
So I have to look first at whether there is physical damage. In this warranty, NHBC hasnt
chosen to define physical damage. And although there are various definitions online of what
physical damage is, I dont think its helpful to use them to define such damage under this
warranty. I think physical damage is something which you can see or feel (as opposed to for
example financial damage), and which has affected the normal function of the item in
question. Here, the floors are clearly uneven and out of true, to the extent that furniture has
to be packed to make them level. NHBC has made the point that it has only recently seen
the photos of the furniture. But I think even without that there is physical damage.
But the damage has to be caused by a Defect. Here I think the issue is confused because
NHBC has said that the floor is not deflecting and that there is no evidence it is failing to
support a normal load. Both those issues seem to me to be concerned with whether or not
there is a Defect.
I dont think NHBCs investigation report of September 2020 addressed the issue of a defect
though  to me, it concentrated on whether there was physical damage. A Defect in this type
of policy would usually be where NHBC building standards have not been complied with. Ps
report of February 2021 says of the floor that Deflection was noted to the rear first floor
element of bedrooms and bathroom. This deflection was some 25mm over 1750mm to the
bathroom and bedrooms. It said this is well above the deflection allowed in the relevantBritish Standard. P further said that If the joists were inserted with a deflection of 25mm
then the NHBC have not discharged their duty with regards to complying with their own
mandatory requirements.
NHBC carried out a desktop study following receipt of that report. It said it has not been
possible to carry out an independent assessment of the loadings or confirm those used by
[P]. It is noted that their calculations assume a full uniform distribution of loadings from the
wall panel and the main roof above the beam.
It concluded:
In order to accurately assess the validity of the claim or provide the necessary evidence to
refute it we need to check spans, loads, etc via a site visit to verify the accuracy of the calcs
and also to undertake a level survey of the floors to accurately ascertain the out of level of
the flooring to determine if there is a non-compliance with NHBC Standards.
No such further site visit was carried out, presumably because NHBC said there was no
physical damage. Whilst P felt there was a defect, I do think NHBCs view on this will be
important. So I think it should carry out that further site visit and reconsider the claim. If
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with that reconsideration they could make a further complaint
about it. Ill set out my proposed directions below.
external cracking
This is clearly physical damage. But under the terms of the warranty (section 3) NHBC will
not be liable for: cosmetic damage such as minor cracking, spalling or mortar erosion to
brickwork, which does not impair the structural stability or weather tightness of your Home.
I think this is minor damage which doesnt appear to have changed since the Home Buyers
report in December 2019. Although P has suggested the cracking may cause water to come
in, Ive seen no evidence that it is in fact doing so.
So I dont need to consider whether there is a defect. I think NHBC reasonably declined this
part of the claim.
flooring in other rooms
P has said the claim covers all three upstairs bedrooms. However the claim that was made
to NHBC and upon which it carried out a report, relates only to the master bedroom and the
bathroom. Mr and Mrs W may wish to make a further claim for the other rooms. If NHBC
does accept the claim for the bathroom/master bedroom hopefully it might be amenable to
extending it to the other two rooms.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I remain persuaded by those findings 
which are now final and form part of this final decision. I should add that when NHBC carries 
out its further investigation I would hope that it will include the other two upstairs rooms, to 
save having to carry out a wholly new investigation for the same issue. I cant require NHBC 
to do so as factually as far as Im aware no claim has been made in respect of the other two 
rooms but it would make sense, if such a claim is now made, to include it
Putting things right
 NHBC should reconsider the claim in respect of the floors and carry out a further site visit in 
accordance with the recommendations in its desktop study, to determine if the floors are in 
compliance with NHBC standards.My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require National House-Building Council to provide the remedy 
set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman