DRN-4192486
The complaint
Mr B complains TSB Bank plc continue to write to him despite his father asking them not to. 
Hes also unhappy TSB have refused to remove information from his credit file regarding a 
loan and overdraft he had with them, and because they refuse to pay him compensation 
after acknowledging they made mistakes with their lending decisions. Mr Bs father has 
brought this complaint to us on his sons behalf.
What happened
Mr Bs father complains about the level of service his son has received since having 
accounts with TSB. Hes explained his son was mis-sold multiple services and loans 
despite TSB being aware of Mr Bs learning difficulties. Hes also unhappy that TSB has 
continued to write to Mr B, despite knowing this has a negative impact on him. Mr Bs father 
holds a power of attorney (POA) and has asked TSB to write to him (Mr Bs father) directly to 
prevent causing distress to his son.
Despite raising several complaints over the years, hes unhappy the problems have 
continued, and that Mr B hasnt been adequately compensated for the impact TSBs actions 
have had on him. The latest complaints were raised after Mr B received a letter saying his 
account had been passed to a debt collection agency, in April 2021. Mr Bs father has 
explained he made numerous calls trying to get the matter sorted and the debt written off. 
And despite TSB now writing off the debt, hes unhappy TSB still hasnt compensated his 
son for approving borrowing he shouldnt have had.
TSB looked into these complaint points and issued several final response letters. In these, 
TSB explained Mr Bs accounts were passed to a debt collection agency after payments 
werent received, and that this was their normal process. However, TSB acknowledged they 
hadnt told the debt collection agency that Mr Bs father was acting on his behalf and offered 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. TSB also referred Mr Bs father to a final 
response letter theyd issued in November 2019 which explained why letters would continue 
to be sent to Mr B directly and that their position hadnt changed. Mr Bs father remained 
unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our Service.
Our Investigator reviewed the information provided by both parties but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He explained that we couldnt consider issues about 
irresponsible lending because they had been dealt with in previous complaints to our 
Service. He also explained that hed seen evidence showing Mr Bs father hadnt allowed 
TSB to update the address they held for Mr B on their systems, so he didnt think TSB had 
done anything wrong when a regulatory letter was sent to Mr B.
Mr Bs father disagreed with our Investigator, so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 June 2023. In this, I explained I wasnt minded to say 
TSBs offer of £100 to resolve this complaint, was fair in the circumstances. Both parties had 
until 21 June 2023 to send me additional evidence and/or points for me to consider.
TSB accepted my provisional decision, but Mr Bs father didnt. He further explained his 
sons vulnerabilities and why he considered TSB treated his son unfairly by offering him 
loans and allowing his account to become overdrawn. Mr Bs father also explained that my 
provisional decision failed to correct  or consider correcting the serious errors in the 
previous complaints investigated by our Service. And to put things right, Mr Bs father said 
he wanted TSB to pay just over £62,000 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by him and his son. 
Ive taken on board Mr Bs fathers points, and while its clear he feels very strongly about 
this complaint, Ive not been persuaded to change my decision. Ill explain my reasoning 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding this complaint, but not in the way Mr B hoped. 
Firstly, I want to acknowledge the level of detail in which Mr Bs father has explained his 
complaint points; and assure him that Ive reviewed and considered everything hes 
provided. However, the informal nature of our Service means Im not obligated to set out my 
findings in the same format as this complaint was presented to us  nor am I obligated to 
comment on every point raised. My role is to consider everything in order to understand the 
heart of the matter, and address that accordingly. So, while my decision may appear less 
detailed than Mr Bs fathers submissions, Ive still taken everything into account before 
determining what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Mr Bs loan and overdraft
Our Service has already investigated TSBs decision to offer Mr B a loan and overdraft. And 
Mr Bs father has clearly explained he disagrees with the outcomes we reached. However, 
neither I, nor any other ombudsman, has the power to investigate a complaint that has 
already been dealt with by our Service  regardless of the way either party to the complaint 
feels about the outcome. That is why I maintain my position that the complaint points 
concerning TSBs lending decisions arent something I can comment on in this case.
Despite the above, what I have been able to consider is the suggestion that TSB has now 
admitted wrongdoing regarding the borrowing given to Mr B; and written off the debt. And 
TSBs decision to write off the debt is another reason Mr Bs father wants the negative 
markers removed from Mr Bs credit file, and for compensation to be paid.
TSB has sent us a copy of the letter they sent to Mr Bs father in September 2021 when they 
agreed to write off the debt. This letter said:
I can confirm that due to your sons vulnerability we have written off the outstanding debts 
on your sons Loan and Current accounts, which amounts to £6,601.47 and £620.57 
respectively and will arrange for the accounts to be closed. However, this is made without 
acceptance of liability by the Bank as the Financial Ombudsman Service have ruled in our 
favour twice.
As the default registered on his credit file were registered in 2014, they have now expired. I consider the wording in this letter was clear, and explained TSB was writing off the debt 
due to Mr Bs vulnerability  not because they felt their lending decision was irresponsible. 
Therefore, I cannot agree with Mr Bs fathers interpretation of the write-off demonstrating, or 
even implying, that TSB felt they shouldnt have approved the borrowing.
As mentioned above, I cant comment on whether the lending was fair or not because that 
matter has already been decided by our Service. However, given what weve been told 
about Mr Bs circumstances, I dont consider it was unfair or unreasonable for TSB to agree 
to write-off his outstanding debt. In fact, it seems like it was the appropriate thing to do. 
I appreciate Mr Bs father feels strongly about this matter. However, TSB and our Service 
have already dealt with the complaints about irresponsible lending, and there comes a point 
where a line needs to be drawn in the sand. TSB acted fairly when writing off the debt - and 
they explained the reasons why. Therefore, any further distress and inconvenience Mr B 
may have experienced when continuing to raise this matter isnt something I can blame TSB 
for. Its for this reason I dont consider any compensation is warranted to resolve this 
complaint point. 
TSB continuing to write to Mr B
Ive seen that Mr Bs father previously raised a complaint about who TSB should correspond 
with, and this was addressed in a final response letter dated November 2019. Therefore, 
I can only consider matters that have happened after this date.
My understanding is that Mr Bs father is unhappy that despite asking TSB not to write to his 
son, he received a letter about his account being passed to a debt collection agency (DCA) 
in April 2021. Im also aware of another letter he received from TSB in December 2022.
While I cant look into what happened before the 2019 final response, I have needed to rely 
on what TSB, Mr B and Mr Bs father have known since that time. The system notes Ive 
reviewed explained that in November 2019 Mr Bs father was told that as he holds a POA for 
his son, they could change the address they have on their system to Mr Bs fathers. Doing 
so would mean future letters are sent to Mr Bs father  however, in the first instance a letter 
would go out to both Mr B, and his father, confirming the change. But when this was 
explained to Mr Bs father, he didnt allow them to do this. My understanding is that Mr Bs 
father also didnt consent to TSB making a note on their system regarding the way receiving 
letters from them impacted Mr B. This meant, TSBs system wasnt updated, and letters 
would continue to be sent to Mr Bs address.Mr Bs father has been very open with us about the impact receiving letters from TSB has on 
his son and their relationship. So, I can understand why he wants to shield Mr B from this. 
However, our Service doesnt have the power to make TSB change their policies and 
procedures  so, in turn, we cannot tell TSB what their policy should be when updating 
addresses on their system. TSB has explained a letter is sent to both addresses to ensure 
their customer is aware of any changes being made to their account. Given this was 
explained to Mr Bs father, Im satisfied he would have been aware of his options, and why 
TSB needed to do things in this way. Therefore, Im satisfied TSB gave Mr Bs father the 
information he needed to make an informed choice on what he considered to be in his sons 
best interests.
As Mr Bs father chose not to allow TSB to update the address they hold, I cannot fully agree 
theyre at fault for any distress Mr B may have experienced when receiving letters from them 
after this date. Ultimately, Mr Bs father was aware his son could receive letters from TSB 
when he declined his consent for TSB to use his address on their systems in late 2019. It 
was a decision he was able to make freely, and in turn means I cant fairly say the 
consequences that stemmed from this are solely TSBs responsibility. 
TSB has explained that as payments hadnt been made towards Mr Bs loan and overdraft 
debt, his accounts were passed to a DCA in line with their normal process. This 
automatically generated a letter being sent to Mr B. However, they have acknowledged that 
they failed to notify the DCA that Mr Bs father was dealing with matters on his behalf. TSB 
apologised for this mistake, and said they recalled the accounts from the DCA and would 
deal with them in-house. They also offered Mr B £100 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience their mistake caused.
I agree TSB should have notified the DCA Mr Bs father was acting on his behalf, and in 
failing to do so, the DCA wasnt fully aware of the circumstances of Mr Bs accounts. This 
would have caused understandable upset for Mr B, so I agree an award is warranted. Taking 
everything into consideration, I think TSBs offer of £100 is fair. I say this because while Mr B 
may have been upset and distressed after receiving the letter, some of that concern could 
have been avoided if TSB had been permitted to change the address they hold for him on 
their system. I must also place weight on the fact that Mr Bs father has played a big role in 
managing his sons affairs with TSB. This means he has shielded Mr B, somewhat, from the 
inconvenience that would have come from being contacted about his accounts. While 
I appreciate Mr Bs father may have felt frustrated and inconvenienced, he isnt an eligible 
complainant in this case (because Mr B is TSBs customer). Therefore, he isnt entitled to 
compensation when hes acted on his sons behalf.
I have seen a copy of the letter sent to Mr B in December 2022. This was a regulatory letter 
TSB was obligated to send to remind Mr B about his rights under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme. Given TSB had to send this letter, and the points Ive mentioned 
above about the address on their system, I dont consider any compensation is warranted for 
the sending of the December 2022 letter.
Mr B currently only has a savings account open with TSB. So, there will likely be occasions 
in the future where TSB are obligated to send regulatory letters. If Mr Bs father doesnt want 
his son to receive these, he has two options. They are:
1. allow TSB to update the address they hold on their system, or if not;
2. close Mr Bs account.
 As Mr Bs father has a POA, he will need to decide which option he considers is best for his 
sons wellbeing moving forward.If its decided the address will be updated, I do need to remind TSB of their obligation to 
make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. I say this because theyre aware 
of the reason Mr Bs father has a POA, and Ive seen limited information to demonstrate how 
this obligation has been considered when it comes to this particular issue  and what 
reasonably can be done to allow the relationship between TSB and Mr B to improve if he 
continues to bank with them. 
Given the above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint  albeit, not in the way his father has 
asked.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Bs complaint.
TSB Bank plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint, and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that TSB Bank plc should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman