DRN-3169242
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him two packaged 
bank accounts, the first was called an Additions account and the second was called an 
Additions Active account.
.
Barclays charged Mr H a monthly fee for both packaged accounts and provided several 
potential benefits in return. 
Mr H thinks that Barclays should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Mr H has been a customer of Barclays for quite a long time. He first opened one of their 
accounts during the 1990s. Barclays does not have full records going back that far, but it has 
told us that the information it does hold shows that: 
Mr H first opened an account around 1995 and the account was fee-free.
By January 1998 (the exact date is not available), Barclays had sold Mr H the 
Additions account. This replaced his fee-free account and Barclays charged him a 
monthly fee.
In June 2008, Barclays sold Mr H the Additions Active account. This replaced his 
Additions account and Barclays charged him a higher monthly fee. 
Mr H kept the Additions Active account for several years. 
Despite the lack of detailed records from the 1990s, I think this information from Barclays is 
probably reliable and I have taken it to be accurate. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt think that 
Barclays had mis-sold him either the Additions or the Additions Active account. The 
adjudicator didnt recommend that Barclays should give Mr H any money back. 
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Hs complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr H and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Mr H has made similar points of complaint about the way Barclays sold him both packaged 
accounts, but as there was a significant period of time between the two sales, I have 
considered each as a different event. However, before describing each sale, I would  like to 
outline the context of the complaint which applied on both occasions.
Historically, Barclays, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank account in 
two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-
advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach Barclays 
used for Mr H, I would have expected it to give him a fair choice and tell him about each 
accounts costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale I would also have expected it to 
check if he needed the benefits which the accounts could provide. 
Barclays has told us that it sold both accounts to Mr H on an information-only basis during 
meetings at one of its branches. This was its usual practice at the relevant times. 
Mr H has told us that Barclays advised him to buy both accounts. He has mentioned a 
meeting for the Additions account but has said that he really cant remember much about 
the way Barclays sold him the Additions Active account, that he doesnt remember (the 
account) actually changing or remember any meeting in 2008. Given that over a decade 
has now passed since 2008, I am not surprised that Mr H cannot recall the details. And 
obviously it is now over two decades since Barclays sold Mr H the Additions account. So, in 
the absence of firm evidence to show that Barclays changed its usual practices for Mr H, I 
have treated both sales as having been non advised. 
The way Barclays sold Mr H the Additions account (by January 1998)
Mr H has made one very clear and consistent point in his complaint. Hes told us that he had 
an overdraft with the fee-free account which he desperately needed and that Barclays 
forced  him to buy the Additions  account  to keep  it. Hes told us that Barclays  said it 
would  withdraw  the overdraft  if he didnt  change  accounts.  Hes described  this as being  
some  kind of fraud  from Barclays.
Firstly,  I would  like to clarify  that both parties  have  agreed  that Mr H overdrew  his 
account  quite  frequently,  largely  through  arrangement,  over several  years.  And from Mr 
Hs own comments,  he started  to do so while  he still had a fee-free  account.  
When  Barclays  (or other  banks)  decides  whether  to arrange  an overdraft  for a customer  
it rarely  considers  the type of account  the customer  holds,  as this does  not give a 
useable  guide  to the customers  credit  worthiness.  So, Im pretty  sure that Mr H could  
have  kept his overdraft  without  buying  the Additions  account.  However,  the crux of his 
complaint  is that he believes  Barclays  told hm the opposite  and so denied  him a fair 
choice  to keep  his fee-free  account.  
Obviously,  after so many  years  have  passed,  I cant  tell for sure what  Barclays  said,  or 
didnt  say, to Mr H during  the meeting.  I fully accept  that there  may well have  been  a 
discussion  about  overdrafts  but I doubt  that Barclays  misled  Mr H in the way he has 
described  as this would  have  contradicted  its own usual  position  and normal  banking  
practice.
At the time in question,  Barclays  applied  a monthly  usage  fee for overdrafts  to 
customers  with fee-free  accounts  which  it did not usually  apply  to customers  with 
Additions  accounts.  The usage  fee was the same  as the monthly  fee for the Additions  
account.  And in some  circumstances,  a customer  would  pay less interest  for the same  
overdraft  with an Additions   account   than s/he would  have  done  with a fee-free  account;  
and so potentially  could  save  money  overall.  I think  its highly  likely  that Barclays  told Mr H about  these  potential  savings  during  the meeting.  It may well also have  told him that 
he could  only get them  if he bought  the Additions  account;  but as it was true, it would  
have  been  a fair thing  for Barclay  to say. And I can see why Mr H may have  found  these  
potential  savings  attractive  at the time.
I dont  think  Barclays  was guilty  of fraud  towards  Mr H, and I dont  think  it forced  him to 
buy the Additions  account.  I think  its more  likely  that Barclays  told Mr H about  the 
different  costs  of overdrafts  with an Additions  and a fee-free  account  and he opted  to 
change.  I dont  think  that Barclays  denied  Mr H a choice.
There  is no dispute  that Barclays  told Mr H about  the fees for the Additions  account  and 
I also find it highly  likely  that it told him about  the other  benefits.  At the time,  these  
included  features  such  as a purchase  protection  scheme,  life assurance  and help with 
writing  Wills.  Im not sure to what  extent  Mr H used  any of these  benefits,  but Im 
satisfied  that Barclays  told him about  them  and made  them  available  to him. 
I dont  think  that Barclays  mis-sold  the Additions  account  to Mr H.
The way Barclays sold Mr H the Additions Active account (2008)
By June 2008, Barclays had changed the benefits of the Additions account significantly. 
They now included insurance for mobile phones and use of a car breakdown service. 
Customers with Additions accounts could still save money on overdrafts compared to those 
with fee-free account, although the details were different. The Additions Active account 
included some of the same benefits as the Additions account and also provided travel 
insurance, use of a more comprehensive car breakdown service and slightly higher potential 
savings on an overdraft. 
Although Mr H has told us that he doesnt remember changing to the Additions Active 
account or attending a meeting about it, Barclays has sent us a letter it wrote to him from the 
time, which seems to show that a meeting or discussion did take place. Amongst other 
things, the letter reminded Mr H that Barclays offered a wide range of accounts, said it was 
delighted he had chosen the Additions Active account and told him about the monthly fee. 
It also mentioned that Mr H could ask about different accounts if he wanted. 
Mr H has signed and dated the letter as noted, so Im confident that he saw it. The letter 
gives me confidence that Barclays gave Mr H a choice and told him about both the  fees and 
benefits of the Additions Active account. Im satisfied that he agreed to buy it, probably for 
the additional benefits it offered compared to the Additions account. 
I dont think that Barclays mis-sold the Additions Active account to Mr H.
Finally, as I mentioned above, Mr H kept the Additions Active account for several years. 
However, around 2017, Barclays withdrew these accounts from most of its customers. It 
replaced them with fee-free current accounts but also switched many customers to optional 
packages of additional benefits, known as feature packs , for which it did charge monthly 
fees. Barclays was allowed to make these changes provided it did so fairly. Its records show 
that in 2017 it added a Travel Pack and a Tech Pack to Mr Hs account. Mr H has not 
mentioned these changes and Barclays has told us that he hasnt  complained  about them. I 
have therefore not considered them in any part of this decision. If Mr H is unhappy about 
them, he is free to complain directly to Barclays about them. But this is entirely a matter for 
him. I cannot give him any advice or speculate on the possible outcome of any complaint. 
Nor can I tell if any subsequent case he may wish to bring to us will fall inside or outside the 
time limits and other rules about which cases we can investigate. My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman