DRN-2072433
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Ms H and Mr P payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage, which 
Ms H and Mr P applied for in January 2002. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms H and Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ms H has told us she believes they paid for PPI before 2002, with a mortgage on another 
property. But there isnt currently evidence to show this, and Im looking here only at what 
happened in the sale of PPI in 2002.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Ms H and Mr P have said they never knew they had PPI, and would have claimed on it, if 
theyd known. I take from this that they are saying the PPI was added without their 
knowledge or consent. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless 
there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the 
allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make 
someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time 
ago. And, in fact, there is reasonable evidence that the PPI was discussed in 2002. On the 
mortgage application, which Ms H and Mr P signed, there is a tick in a box to say they 
wanted PPI. And there is a separate application form for PPI which they also signed. 
So, although I cant be sure, I think Ms H and Mr P probably did agree to the PPI, even if 
theyve now forgotten  which isnt surprising given how long ago this all happened. Without 
stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Ms H and Mr Ps knowledge 
or consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms H and Mr P, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Ms H and 
Mr Ps particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Ms H and Mr Ps situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr P (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr P received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Ms H and 
Mr P would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for 
paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Ms H and Mr P in 
a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Ms H and Mr P couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out. Ms H has said she believes that Lloyds has given us an inaccurate 
monthly cost of the PPI. She thinks it was higher. However, judging from its records 
and the application form, I think the amount its told us is probably correct. And, in 
any case, it would have to be a significantly higher monthly amount before I would 
say the cost made it unsuitable.
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions)  and its also possible 
Lloyds didnt make this as clear as it should have. But its unlikely Mr P would have 
been affected by any of these.
I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was suitable.
My overall conclusion is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H and Mr P because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms H and Mr P about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Ms H and Mr P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms H and Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms H and Mr P any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2020.
 
Timothy BaileyOmbudsman