DRN-3172629
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited following the return of his car.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr R was supplied with a car through a hire agreement with MBFS. The 
agreement was for 24 months, with monthly payments of £294. 
In February 2021 Mr R arranged to return the car. He said the car was inspected on 8 
February 2021 and no damage was reported. He said the car was in near perfect condition, 
with signs of only minor wear and tear. He said he wasnt made aware there would be a 
second inspection on the car at a later date. So he was surprised to receive an invoice from 
MBFS in April 2021 for damage to the car.
The invoice was for £995.77, for a scratched rear bumper, a dent on the left side rear door, 
scratches on both right-side doors, a dented tailgate, and spoke damage to two wheels. 
They also charged Mr R for missing tyre sealant and a chip in the windscreen.
Mr R complained to MBFS. He said the images MBFS provided werent clear and the 
damage could have been caused after the car had been collected.
MBFS said the second inspection was carried out on 12 February 2021. They said this was 
because of the weather conditions at the time the car was collected. They said this is done if 
its wet, snowy, or dark at the time of the first inspection. They provided Mr R with a link to 
the inspection report, and said this showed that the damages they were charging for were in 
excess of the allowances in their Vehicle Return Standards (VRS).
They also said the collection agent had confirmed no damage had been caused after the 
vehicle had been collected from Mr R. 
Mr R was unhappy with their response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen evidence that some of the damage to the car fell outside 
MBFS VRS, and BVRLAs fair wear and tear guidelines. So he thought it was reasonable for 
MBFS to charge Mr R for these items. He was also satisfied the tyre sealant was missing 
and that it was reasonable for MBFS to also charge him for this.
But he didnt think the photographs showed that the damage to the tailgate or the 
windscreen exceeded the VRS or the BVRLA guidelines. So he didnt think it was 
reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr R for these items.
He also said it was reasonable for MBFS to conduct a second inspection as it was snowing 
at the time of the first inspection, and industry guidelines state that water on the paintwork 
can mask any damage.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators view. He was unhappy that the initial inspection was 
substandard and below an acceptable level of service. He says this is not what he agreed 
to when he entered into the hire agreement. He asked for an ombudsman to consider 
whether or not MBFS has fulfilled their part of the hire agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means we can look into complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the hire agreement Mr R signed on 1 February 2019. The VRS form part 
of this agreement. In addition to a copy of the VRS being given to Mr R when he entered into 
the agreement, he would also have been sent a copy six months before the agreement 
ended. These are also available online. 
The introduction section of the VRS includes the following statement:
When the vehicle is returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be 
carried out by trained technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre.
Mr R said that he wasnt told that a second inspection would be carried out. I can see that in 
their Final Response Letter MBFS said that a second inspection is done in specific 
conditions. But the VRS makes clear that a second inspection will be done when the car is 
returned, regardless of conditions. So Im satisfied that MBFS did what it set out in the 
agreement.
I note that Mr R believes the first inspection was substandard. I know he feels strongly 
about this, but MBFS was always entitled under the agreement to carry out a second 
inspection. So the quality of the first inspection isnt relevant here.
In any case, I accept that because of the wet weather conditions at the time, it would always 
have been reasonable for MBFS to carry out a second inspection. This is because it is 
widely accepted that damage to the bodywork isnt always visible when it is dark or wet. And 
its clear from the photographs taken at the time of the first inspection that it was a wet day. 
The agreement goes on to say that Mr R is responsible for any damage outside of fair wear 
and tear guidelines. Based on the above, Im satisfied that he wouldve been reasonably 
aware of his obligations under the agreement, and that he could be charged for damage to 
the car when it was returned. And because he was sent a copy of the VRS six months 
before the agreement ended, he had the opportunity to have the repairs done by a garage of 
his own choosing and replace any missing parts.
Ive seen a copy of both inspection reports, including the photographic evidence of the 
damage being charged for. I agree with our investigator that the damage to the windscreen, 
and to the tailgate, does not appear to exceed the allowances in the VRS and its not 
reasonable for MBFS to charge for these.I am satisfied that the other damage is clear. The damage to the wheels can clearly be seen 
on the photographs taken at the second inspection. But the damage to the doors and the 
rear bumper is clear in the photographs taken at both the initial inspection, and at the second 
inspection. And Im satisfied that all of this damage is greater than permitted in the VRS.
Mr R said this damage could have been caused after the car was collected. MBFS have 
confirmed with the agent that this wasnt the case. And because of the damage that is visible 
in the photographs from the first inspection, I am satisfied that its more likely than not that 
the damage was caused before the collection.
So Im satisfied that MBFS acted reasonably by charging Mr R for most of the damage to the 
car, but not for the damage to the windscreen and the tailgate. 
The VRS also state that the car should have no missing components or parts. Im satisfied 
that the tyre sealant was missing, and whilst it was not included in the original report, I think 
it more likely than not that it was missing at the time of the first inspection. So its reasonable 
for MBFS to charge Mr R for the missing item.
Putting things right
To put things right Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited must:
remove the £32 charge its raised in respect of the front windscreen,
remove the £35 charge its raised in relation to the tailgate. 
MBFS must remove a total of £67 from the total outstanding balance and reduce the 
outstanding balance thats payable to £928.77.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman