DRN-3025936
The complaint
M complains that Allied Irish Banks Plc failed to make payments from its business account 
that should have been made. And that they failed to respond in a timely manner when M 
complained about this.
What happened
M is a micro-enterprise with a sole director, who Ill refer to as Mr M. Mr M brought this 
complaint to us on behalf of his company, M.
M had a business bank account with Allied Irish Banks Plc (AIB).
In December 2020, M tried to make payments from the account, authorised by Mr M as the 
director. These payments were blocked. Essentially, AIB thought payments from the account 
required dual authorisation. 
Mr M contacted AIB and eventually the issue was resolved, in so far as AIB facilitated the 
payments M wanted to make.
When he contacted AIB, in late December 2020, Mr M also expressed his wish to make a 
complaint on Ms behalf about the service M had received.
It appears AIB thought the issue was resolved by them ensuring the payments could go 
through. And they didnt formally record  or take any further action on  Ms complaint.
When Mr M hadnt heard anything from AIB, he contacted them again  in February 2021  
and asked them again for a response to Ms complaint.
AIB apologised for not having recorded Ms complaint. They now logged it as a formal 
complaint and back-dated the date of complaint on their records to 23 December 2020  
when the original conversation took place.
At that point, AIB offered £150 compensation and paid that money into Ms business 
account. 
By that time, M had gone into liquidation and its account was under the control of an 
appointed liquidator.
Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome and brought Ms complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think AIB needed to do anything more to put things right. 
M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At risk of going into detail about the exact legal position, its very important for me to say 
right at the outset that the account was in the name of the company, M. It wasnt Mr Ms 
account.
AIBs customer  and the entity which can complain about their handling of the account  is 
M, not Mr M. Mr M has brought the complaint to AIB  and then to us  on Ms behalf and as 
its representative, but he personally cant be the beneficiary of any award AIB or we can 
make. This is important for reasons Ill come back to later.
For now, let me say that it appears there was a mix-up with Ms account. Mr M, as the 
director, never intended that payments etc. should be dual authorised. And when his 
payments didnt at first go through, this caused him a degree of stress and inconvenience.
It appears AIB accepted that. And when Mr M raised the issue with them, they acted 
reasonably quickly to resolve things. Without going into detail, the payments were made in 
time and M suffered no financial or other loss as a result of the short delay.
AIB made an error  albeit for understandable reasons  when they assumed Ms 
dissatisfaction with the service was entirely resolved when they made the payments. It 
wasnt  and Mr M then had to chase AIB, on Ms behalf, for a response to the complaint.
If Ms complaint to us was entirely about AIBs complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to 
look into it at all. Complaints handling is not a regulated activity. But the complaint isnt just 
about complaints handling  its about the service M received in relation to its account and 
about the proper resolution of those issues (the failure to make the payments).
Its arguable that we cant look into the specific issues M raises which are about AIBs 
complaints handling. But when AIB offered £150 in compensation, they werent entirely clear 
whether this was for the fact they delayed the payments originally and/or for their failure to 
record and properly respond to Ms complaint.
So, Im satisfied on balance that Ms entire complaint is something we can look into. It all 
relates to issues with the financial service AIB provided, which had not been fully resolved by 
AIB. That said, Im not going to uphold Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms payments were delayed for a short period of time. But AIB put that right and ensured the 
payments went out speedily enough that the delay had no financial impact on M.
Any compensation for that delay was payable to M  and not to Mr M. Mr M says he had a 
conversation with AIB in which they undertook to pay the money to him personally. 
Theres no record of that conversation, so I cant say what happened. Although I will say that 
I can see how some confusion might have arisen given the complexity of the situation and 
the fact that Mr M was the sole director of M.
In any case, AIB say they were under a legal obligation to pay the compensation to M, not 
Mr M. Thats as may be, but for my purposes in making this decision the most important 
factor is that M were AIBs customer. So, only M  not Mr M  can conceivably be the 
complainant about the service AIB provided. And only M  not Mr M  can be the recipient of 
any redress.
Its reasonably clear from our correspondence that Mr Ms reason for making the complaint 
is that he thinks AIB should have responded to Ms complaint sooner. If they had, he says, the £150 would have gone into Ms account before M went into liquidation  and he would 
therefore have had access to it. He couldnt access it after that because the account was 
under the control of the appointed liquidator.
Leaving aside any moral questions about what Mr M wants, hes essentially asking us to 
consider a complaint from M that a payment was made too late for Mr M to access it before 
the company went into liquidation. That seems, on the face of it, unusual, if not slightly 
illogical. There is no detriment to M here. The detriment is to Mr M  and Mr M is not AIBs 
customer. 
In short, M suffered some inconvenience when it had to re-submit requests for payments to 
be made from the account. That inconvenience was adequately compensated by the £150 
payment AIB properly made into Ms account. The delay in responding to the subsequent 
complaint had no effect at all on M and so requires no further redress or compensation.
Perhaps more importantly for Mr M, even if I were to consider that more redress were due to 
M from AIB  which I dont - I would have to direct AIB to pay any award to M, not to Mr M. 
And I cant possibly instruct AIB to direct the original £150  or a replacement £150 for that 
matter  to Mr M. M is AIBs customer, not Mr M. M is the entity entitled to make a complaint 
to AIB  and to us. M is the only possible beneficiary of any award made as a result of any 
such complaint.
So, it seems to me that even if I were to find further fault with the way AIB handled the 
account or Ms complaint, the outcome would not be what Mr M wants  which is to have the 
£150 (or more) paid to him and not to M. Im not entirely sure that this will be any consolation 
to Mr M, but thats as may be.
To be completely clear about the formal outcome of this decision, Im satisfied M was 
adequately compensated by AIB for any issues with their handling of Ms account before Mr 
M acting on the companys behalf brought Ms complaint to our attention.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman