DRN-1409033
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monmouthshire Building Society (MBS) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out during a meeting in 2002 in 
connection with a joint mortgage with Mrs B.
What happened
Mr B complained to this Service. He said he had been paying for PPI from 1992 to 2011. 
However, he says he did not know he had it and cant remember it being discussed, so he 
wants the PPI premiums to be refunded. He adds Mrs B received a refund of the PPI 
premiums after she started paying the mortgage repayments on her own. So he concludes 
he should get a refund too.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like Mr B was 
offered an optional policy and  although the information might have been clearer  he 
probably would have bought the PPI anyway.
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
The policy only covered Mr B, so sometimes I will only refer to him. But I will refer to Mrs B 
wherever appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the available evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I know 
this will be a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether MBS made Mr B aware the policy was optional. He specifically said 
he did not know he had bought PPI and he could not remember any discussion about it.  
Ive been shown the mortgage application form which MBS said was completed at or around 
the time of the sale for Mr B and Mrs B. There was a separate section on the form headed 
Section 9  Protecting Your Mortgage Payments. Mr B had ticked for accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover. The form shows that Mrs B was not eligible to buy PPI at the time, 
so the PPI was only for Mr B. I note Mr B didnt sign the PPI section. But I think he did 
enough by ticking for the PPI cover he wanted to show he consented to have PPI added to 
their mortgage account. I can reasonably assume he could have chosen not to tick the PPI 
section on the form  and so decline the PPI. So I think it was clear enough on the mortgage 
application that PPI was an optional product and he consented to have it added to the 
mortgage account. Although I can understand why Mr B may not be able to remember this.  
MBS said the sale was non-advised. So it didnt have to make sure the policy was right for 
Mr B. But it did have to give him enough information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading, so that he could make his own decision about it.  So I also looked at his financial 
circumstances at the time to see if the PPI would have been a useful benefit for him. 
Mr B said he was in full time employment and would get some sick pay benefits from his 
employer if he was off sick. He told us he was in good health at the time of the purchase. I 
have thought carefully about this but having decided he wanted PPI and chose to have it, I 
think Mr B thought the policy provided a valuable benefit to him in addition to his limited 
employee benefits  particularly as it appears he was the main wage earner at the time of 
the PPI sale. I say this because the PPI could have lasted for longer than and in addition to 
his sick pay if he had made a successful claim. So I think the PPI was a useful benefit for 
him.
Mr B said he could have relied on his family to pay the mortgage repayments. I do 
understand the point he is making. But there was no guarantee that he could still rely on this 
support at some unknown point in the lifetime of the mortgage. So I still think he could have 
got a valuable benefit from the PPI.
I dont know how MBS told Mr B about the exclusions and limitations of the policy, but I think 
he was unlikely to be affected by the main exclusions as he was in good health and in full 
time employment. So I dont think he would have decided not to buy PPI even if hed been 
given a full list of the exclusions.
I also looked at whether MBS gave Mr B enough clear information about the cost and 
benefits. I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually explained to Mr B in the 
meeting. So as Ive decided he chose to have PPI and that there was a benefit in him having 
PPI, I dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and benefits would 
have put him off from taking out the policy.
Mr B mentioned that he was paying PPI since 1992. However, MBSs records show that the 
PPI started when Mr B and Mrs B took out the joint mortgage in 2002. 
I also noted Mrs B had some PPI premiums refunded, but that wasnt because the policy had 
been mis-sold. MBS told us the refund was because Mrs B was still paying for the PPI 
premiums for Mr B after Mr B had stopped paying for the mortgage. And as he didnt need 
the PPI cover from that date, MBS refunded those additional PPI premiums to Mrs B.
 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr B was aware the PPI was optional, it was of 
benefit to him and that he had enough clear information to make a decision. So Im not going 
to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman