DRN-2794570
The complaint
Mr T complains Santander UK plc (Santander) failed to give him sufficient time to repay his 
borrowing before they marked a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr T says he held a bank account with Santander and didnt realise it had been blocked until 
a direct debit was returned unpaid in February 2020. Mr T maintains he never received the 
account closure letter asking him to repay his borrowing in full, in January 2020. Mr T says 
after contacting Santander he then made attempts to pay funds into his bank account, but 
these payments were rejected as a block was placed on his bank account. Mr T says he 
then learned a default had been registered against his credit file despite him asking 
Santander not to do this. He says Santander made it difficult for him to repay the debt on his 
bank account by insisting he visited his branch each time during limited opening hours. Mr T 
has since repaid the debt and has asked that Santander remove the default on his credit file.
Santander says they issued several letters to Mr T regarding the indebtedness on his 
account and explained to him his credit file could be affected if he didnt settle his debt with 
them. Santander says they were correct to notify Mr T of their intention to close the account 
and seek full repayment of the debt, under the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr T wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt that Mr T had been made aware on a number of occasions of the debt owed and he had 
agreed to make repayments which werent kept. The investigator says Mr T had the 
opportunity to visit his branch as he had previously, to pay monies into his bank account as 
he had agreed. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I do understand it would have been upsetting for Mr T to be asked to make alternative 
banking arrangements, repay his borrowing and to see a default registered on his credit file, 
even though he had attempted to pay monies into his bank account. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider if Santander acted reasonably when they informed Mr T, they were 
closing his bank account and then registered a default on his credit file.
From the information made available to this service I can see that Mr T was issued with a 
letter in late January 2020 from Santander informing him they could no longer offer him 
banking facilities and he needed to repay his overdraft with them. While Mr T was unhappy 
about this, banks like Santander are able to decide whom they wish to conduct business 
with, in the same way Mr T can decide without reason to choose to bank elsewhere if he so 
wishes. Santander detail this under section 18.2 and 18.3 of its General Terms and 
Conditions. 
That said, the main body of Mr Ts complaint centres around the difficulties he faced when 
trying to repay the outstanding borrowing and he feels it was unfair that Santander marked a 
default against his credit file. Mr T says he never received all of the letters demanding 
repayment and Santander didnt give him sufficient time to clear the indebtedness before 
defaulting him. Mr T says he attempted to pay in monies to reduce the borrowing but faced 
problems when trying to do so. 
I can understand the point Mr T makes here, but its important to say I have seen a total of 
14 letters sent to him over a six- month period requesting repayment of the borrowing with 
regular mention the matter may be referred to credit reference agencies. Mr T has said he 
received some but not all these letters although its difficult to understand why the others 
wouldnt have been received given the same address details was on all the correspondence. 
In any event it is clear, in those letters Mr T says he did receive, that unless he repaid the 
borrowing there would be consequences. 
While Mr T says Santander could have emailed him rather than writing  letters, its not my 
role to tell Santander which method of communication to its customers they must use. And I 
think its important to note that he received at least some of the letters which wouldve made 
the urgency of the situation apparent. It follows, I cant say Mr T wasnt made aware of the 
seriousness of the situation if he failed to make the repayment to the bank account in a 
timely manner. 
Having said that, I can see Mr T made a deposit into his account of £450 in mid-March 2020 
and then  attempted to pay into his account online but on both occasions these payments 
rejected given there was a restriction marker on his bank account. Its worth mentioning that 
its not unusual for banks to place such restrictive markers on accounts when they have 
issued a notice to close a bank account. 
I have also listened to a telephone call between Mr T and a member of Santanders staff 
who explained that Mr T needed to visit a branch to pay in to his account to overcome the 
problems he had faced trying to pay in online. In that telephone call in late May 2020, Mr T 
offered to pay £500 every 14 days to clear the borrowing, so I do understand Mr T was at 
that point attempting to clear the borrowing he owed, and the first payment was made on the 
first of June 2020. What followed was Mr T was then asked to ring Santanders head office 
for a unique reference when paying into his bank account at Santanders branches. Mr T felt 
he shouldnt need to go to these lengths to repay the borrowing as there should be other 
means available to him. 
While I do sympathise with Mr Ts view, he had managed to pay in to Santander by this 
method before and while it might be inconvenient, Santander told him thats what he needed 
to do, he agreed to this and ultimately didnt make any payments to clear his borrowing from 
June 2020 onwards, which led to the default being registered two months later. Mr T was 
made aware of Santanders demands to repay the borrowing six month earlier, so I cant say 
he didnt have enough time to have agreed to, and kept within, an agreed payment plan, 
during this time. 
Mr T by his own admission understood the impact of a default being marked against his 
credit file, as he wanted to avoid this. The fact remains, no further deposits were made by 
him from June 2020 onwards, even with that in mind. I am satisfied that Mr T was aware of the consequences of him not keeping up with the payment plan he offered and agreed to, 
and he could have done more to either keep to those arrangements or inform Santander, if 
he felt this was unaffordable in anyway. It follows I cant say Santander have acted 
unreasonably registering a default against Mr Ts credit file, when they did.
It follows, while Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Santander here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman