DRN-2930420
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined their claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs W had an annual travel insurance policy with IPA 
which started on 17 May 2018. On 14 February 2019, they booked a trip with intended 
departure and return dates of 15 May 2019 and 22 May 2019 respectively. 
On 28 March 2019, Mrs W received a diagnosis of breast cancer and went on to have 
treatment. Mrs W needed further treatment, so in May 2019, Mr and Mrs W cancelled 
their trip. 
Mr and Mrs W made a claim against their policy. IPA declined their claim. It said initially 
that the policy doesnt cover pre-existing medical conditions and that on 8 February 2019 
- before the trip was booked - Mrs W was waiting for further investigations. In response 
to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, IPA relied on an exclusion in the policy which says that it 
doesnt cover circumstances known to the policyholder at the time of purchasing the 
insurance or booking the trip which could reasonably have been expected to lead to 
cancellation of the trip. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to note the circumstances which led to the claim, but I dont uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint. Thats because I dont think that IPA acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining the claim. Ill explain why:
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr W is right to point out 
that the central issue is whether IPA can rely on the exclusion in the policy which 
provides:
What is not covered
[]
5. Any claims arising directly or indirectly from:
[]
b) Circumstances known to you before you purchased this insurance or at the time 
of booking any trip [] which could reasonably have been expected to lead to 
cancellation or curtailment of the trip [].
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that IPA was at fault in relying on the exclusion 
Ive set out above. Mrs Ws GPs notes show that on 29 January 2019, the GP 
identified a lump in Mrs Ws right breast. The GP queried whether this was the site of 
a previous cyst. Mrs W was referred for a mammogram. That referral was mentioned 
again in the GPs notes on 8 February 2019. The medical certificate completed on    
4 June 2019 by Mrs Ws new GP indicate that the referral took place on 8 February 
2019.
Nothing Ive seen supports Mr Ws assertion that Mrs W was referred for a 
mammogram as part of the national screening program. Based on what Ive seen, 
before the date the trip was booked on 14 February 2019, a lump had been identified 
in Mrs Ws right breast and shed been referred for further investigations. 
I think that Mrs Ws breast lump and referral could reasonably have been expected to 
lead to cancellation of the trip. So, I dont think that IPA acted unfairly in declining the 
claim as at the time the trip was booked, Mrs W knew of the circumstances which  
could reasonably have been expected to lead to cancellation of the trip. 
Mr W says that IPA has to prove that they knew that Mrs W had breast cancer at the 
time they booked the trip but thats not the correct test here. I dont think that IPA 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in concluding that at the time the trip was booked,  
Mrs W knew that a lump had been identified and that shed been referred for 
diagnostic tests. So, Mrs W knew of the matters which could reasonably have been 
expected to lead to cancellation of the trip and which ultimately did so. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman