DRN-3111330
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) is 
about the Estate Planning Service (EPS) investment they were advised to make in 2017.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S became clients of SJP in 2015. In 2017, after Mr S had been treated for a 
serious illness, they asked SJP for advice on estate planning.
SJP recommended that Mr and Mrs S invest a total of £780,000 across four Inheritance Tax 
Services (ITS) investments. One of the ITS investments was the Oxford Capital EPS, which 
is the subject of this complaint. Mr and Mrs S invested £250,000 in the EPS, which was a 
discretionary investment management service that, through Business Property Relief (BPR), 
would likely provide investors with inheritance tax (IHT) relief after two years.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs S complained to SJP about their advice to invest in the EPS. At the time 
of their complaint the value of the investment had reduced to £137,944. Mr and Mrs S 
complain that: 
The EPS was presented as a capital preservation product aiming for a 3% return and 
was described to them as a boring investment. They were misled by SJP about the 
risks associated with the EPS.
SJPs initial and ongoing due diligence in relation to the EPS was inadequate. They were 
misled as to the level of gearing of the investee companies, which was the main reason 
for the failure of the EPS. Describing the level of gearing as conservative was a 
misrepresentation as it was above 70%. SJP were either misled by the provider or did 
not carry out sufficient due diligence. They also failed to carry out ongoing monitoring 
and make changes where necessary.
SJP have offered to reduce their annual charges, but it would take nearly 20 years for 
that to cover their losses on this investment.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, SJP said:
All appropriate due diligence was conducted prior to appointing Oxford Capital to their 
panel of investment providers. There were multiple levels of due diligence conducted by 
both internal and external adjudicators. 
An EPS investment, by its very nature, is considered higher risk and that is why 
attractive tax reliefs are offered to encourage investment. No guarantees can be made 
about its performance and no such guarantees were given to Mr and Mrs S. 
SJP had no influence and were not responsible for the ongoing investment decisions 
made by Oxford Capital, including in relation to the level of gearing. When Mr and Mrs S 
invested in the EPS and other BPR investments they agreed that the providers would act 
as discretionary fund managers. 
The Information Memorandum (IM) for the EPS explained that Oxford Capital would use 
Mr and Mrs Ss funds to acquire shares in one or more unquoted holding companies. 
The section on risks in the IM highlighted that there was the potential for investments to 
be concentrated in similar sectors and that investee companies may sometimes take on 
debt, for example to finance the purchase of assets. There was nothing to say that the 
level of gearing would be limited to a certain position. The 2018 report that Mr and Mrs S 
referred to in their complaint provided commentary on one of the investee companies 
and Oxford Capital were responsible for investment decisions in relation to that 
company.
The EPS, and the other investments recommended, met Mr and Mrs Ss objective of 
reducing their IHT liability at the earliest available opportunity, which in this case was two 
years. Mr and Mrs S were happy to expose a proportion of their overall wealth to 
significantly higher levels of risk to secure the potential IHT benefits. The suitability letter 
made clear the schemes generally invested in smaller companies which meant their 
capital was at risk.
Mr and Mrs S signed a declaration to say they understood and accepted the risks 
associated with the investments they made. They also confirmed their understanding 
that SJP had no influence and could not be held responsible for the underlying decisions 
of the investment providers. 
The EPS objective of capital preservation and the target returns of 3% were not 
guaranteed. That and the risks of the investment were highlighted to Mr and Mrs S.
In relation to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint that the adviser described the EPS as a boring 
investment, this was to indicate that the investment was being made in existing 
technologies that would offer minimal returns. It was not intended to indicate that the risk 
of the investment was low, and it should be considered in conjunction with all the 
information they were given at the time. 
Our investigator didnt think SJP had done anything wrong. He said, in summary:
Mr and Mrs S wanted an investment that would provide IHT mitigation. They had 
previous investment experience which allowed them to be aware of the risks involved 
with different levels of investments. Mr and Mrs S were ready to invest in the EPS as it 
offered IHT mitigation after two years, which was favourable because of Mr Ss health 
concerns.
SJPs suitability report and the IM explained that the EPS was high risk, and that Mr and 
Mrs S might not get back all the money invested. Mr and Mrs S were willing to accept 
that the EPS was higher risk than their other investments because of the IHT benefits it 
offered.  
Mr and Mrs S had over £2,000,000 in investable wealth, over £400,000 in accessible 
cash for emergency funds and surplus income of over £1,000 each month, so they had 
the capacity to absorb any losses from their investment.
Oxford Capital were responsible for conducting due diligence on the companies the EPS 
invested in. SJP said their due diligence on the EPS was conducted by third-party 
consultants. After reviewing their report, our investigator was satisfied that SJP carried 
out extensive and thorough research prior to any investments being made or offered to 
clients. The EPS invested in inherently risky businesses, and it would be unrealistic to expect SJP or Oxford Capital to be able to guarantee that the companies would be 
successful.
SJPs recommendation was based on all the information they had available and the due 
diligence they had conducted. He couldnt find any guarantee in the IM about the level of 
gearing and the documents provided by SJP at the time of their recommendation didnt 
mention that gearing would be conservative or limited. Oxford Capital did refer in April 
2018 to a conservative gearing position, but that was after Mr and Mrs S had invested. 
Any increase to the level of gearing would have been determined by Oxford Capital.   
SJP accepted our investigators view. Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision. They said:
Their most important objective, as recorded in the suitability report, was to preserve the 
value of their estate for their family. The EPS targeted an annual return of 3% and yet 
has lost over half their capital. It should never have been recommended to someone 
looking to preserve their estate. The fact that the investment is out of their estate is 
irrelevant. 
The fact they could afford to lose over £130,000 is not relevant when their objective was 
to preserve their capital.
SJP monitored their investments on an annual basis. If SJP reviewed the EPS 
investment and it was no longer suitable because the gearing had changed from low to 
very high, they should have informed Mr and Mrs S of that or made a recommendation to 
switch to an alternative investment.
SJP initially wanted to put things right and offered to reduce their fees. That was unfair 
as it would mean they had to wait 20 years to recover their losses from the EPS 
investment. 
Our investigator said that Mr and Mrs Ss comments did not change his view on this 
complaint. In relation to SJPs offer of reduced fees, he said that was a gesture of goodwill 
and not an offer of compensation. 
As Mr and Mrs S disagree with our investigators findings, their complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs S that I have looked carefully at all the information they have 
provided. Having done so, I hope they wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed 
every point they have raised. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be 
the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to their complaint.  
In this decision, I am looking at the actions of SJP. They were responsible for giving Mr and 
Mrs S suitable advice about their investments and for making sure they were given 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading to enable them to make an informed 
decision.SJP were not responsible for managing Mr and Mrs Ss investment in the EPS, which was a 
discretionary investment management service provided by Oxford Capital. It was for Oxford 
Capital to manage the EPS in a way that was consistent with the terms and investment 
mandate set out in the IM.    
Suitability of SJPs advice
SJP advised Mr and Mrs S to invest a total of £780,000 across four ITS investments, 
including £250,000 in the EPS. Although Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is focused on their 
investment in the EPS and not their other ITS investments, I have looked first at the overall 
suitability of the advice they were given. I will then consider their specific concerns about the 
EPS. 
The rules say that a business needs to get enough information from a customer to make 
sure a recommendation meets their objectives. So, before making their recommendations, 
SJP should have taken account of Mr and Mrs Ss financial situation, their purpose in 
investing and attitude to risk, and how long they wanted to invest for.
 
Ive seen copies of the financial review document that the SJP adviser completed with 
Mr and Mrs S and the suitability letter he later sent them. These documents provide 
information on Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, and Ive taken account of that 
along with what both parties have said in deciding whether I think the advice given to Mr and 
Mrs S was suitable. 
The suitability letter said that Mr and Mrs Ss objective was to preserve the value of their 
estate for their family and reduce their IHT liability. They wanted to address IHT in the fastest 
way possible because of concerns about Mr Ss health.   
Mr and Mrs Ss estate was valued at approximately £3.18 million, with about £470,000 
already exempt from IHT. Although they had whole of life policies in place that could have 
covered their potential IHT liability at the time, they wanted to reduce further their liability so 
they could leave more of their estate to their family and because they had seen how quickly 
the size of their estate could grow.
The ITS investments recommended by SJP would reduce their IHT liability by over £300,000 
after just a two year qualifying period. Its not in dispute that SJPs advice was consistent 
with Mr and Mrs Ss aim of reducing their IHT liability in a short timeframe. However, Mr and 
Mrs S complain that it was at the expense of preserving the value of their estate, which was 
their most important objective.  
Any investment meeting Mr and Mrs Ss objective of reducing IHT liability as quickly as 
possible would most likely have carried significant risk. I can see from the suitability letter 
that the adviser discussed with Mr and Mrs S how to balance their aims of reducing their IHT 
liability and preserving the value of their estate. 
Mr and Mrs S had invested for many years and had a good understanding of risk. 
The suitability report described them as upper-medium risk investors overall, but said they 
were willing to invest a higher proportion of their overall wealth in higher risk assets because 
of the tax benefits available. The report also said that Mr and Mrs S were willing to invest for 
five to ten years or longer.
I think the adviser explained to Mr and Mrs S the level of risk of the ITS investments. 
The suitability letter said the four ITS products were higher risk investments in smaller 
companies, which may experience significant falls in value. Mr and Mrs S also signed a BPR 
client declaration form to say they accepted the high risk nature of the investments meant they could get back significantly less than was originally invested and that the investments 
were only suitable for clients who could afford to lose money.   
Mr and Mrs S had total investments of about £2.4 million. The funds for the ITS investments 
were to be taken from existing investment ISAs and an investment bond. The suitability 
report said that the ITS investments recommended by SJP would make up 32% of Mr and 
Mrs Ss investable assets, so they were putting almost a third of their investable wealth at 
risk of capital loss.
 
Based on their circumstances at the time, I think Mr and Mrs S did have capacity to take a 
higher level of risk with some of their funds. They had a diversified portfolio of other 
investments and the suitability letter said that, after making the ITS investments, they would 
be left with over £400,000 in cash based savings. That was sufficient to cover any 
emergencies that might arise and the gifts they were planning to make to family members. 
Taking account of their regular outgoings, they also had disposable income of £1,440 a 
month. So, I think Mr and Mrs S had the capacity to absorb some losses and it was not 
unreasonable for SJP to recommend some higher risk investments, particularly given their 
IHT objective. 
It appears from the suitability letter that there was some discussion about the amount Mr and 
Mrs S should invest in the ITS products. I note that the adviser said that he would not 
normally recommend such a large sum be invested in one go but had done so due to Mr and 
Mrs Ss objective of finding the quickest way to reduce their IHT liability. He listed other 
investments that had been discounted, mainly because they did not meet the objective of 
removing IHT liability from the estate at the earliest opportunity. And he recommended that 
Mr and Mrs S spread the risk by investing their funds across four separate ITS products. 
As Ive already noted, Mr and Mrs S were putting a significant proportion of their funds at risk 
of capital loss. But given their circumstances and investment objectives, I dont think SJPs 
recommendation was unreasonable. Im satisfied that the adviser clearly explained the risks 
of the ITS investments, alongside the tax benefits they offered. And I think Mr and Mrs S 
were prepared to take a higher level of risk with a significant proportion of their assets in 
order to reduce their IHT liability in a quick timeframe. So, on balance, I think SJPs advice to 
Mr and Mrs S was suitable to their needs.
EPS investment 
I will now look at Mr and Mrs Ss specific complaints about the EPS.  
I think SJP provided sufficiently clear information to Mr and Mrs S about what kind of 
investment the EPS was. I say this because: 
In the suitability letter, the SJP adviser said he had explained to Mr and Mrs S that the 
EPS was a discretionary portfolio management service, managed by Oxford Capital. 
They would invest Mr and Mrs Ss money into one or more unquoted BPR qualifying 
companies. 
Mr and Mrs S were also given a copy of the IM which explained that Oxford Capital 
would be acting as discretionary investment manager and had a mandate to make 
investment decisions on behalf of investors. 
The client declaration Mr and Mrs S signed said that SJP had no influence and could not 
be held responsible for the underlying investment decisions of the provider.Ive already found that SJP made clear to Mr and Mrs S the risks of the ITS investments. 
In relation to the EPS specifically, I note that the IM explained that the target returns were 
not guaranteed. It said the EPS would invest in unquoted securities, which may expose 
investors to a significant risk of losing all the money invested. 
The investment risks section of the IM also highlighted the risk that the EPS may not achieve 
the targeted returns and that investee companies may fail, resulting in their securities being 
sold for significantly less than the amount paid for them. It went on to set out other key risks 
relating to changes in Government support, lack of liquidity, risks associated with 
infrastructure assets and limited diversification. 
So, I think it should have been clear to Mr and Mrs S that while the EPS was targeting 
capital preservation with a small return, that was not guaranteed. The EPS was still a high 
risk investment that put an investors capital at risk.
Mr and Mrs S have also complained that SJPs due diligence on the EPS was inadequate. 
SJP have provided information on what they describe as the multiple layers of due diligence 
they conducted before deciding that the EPS was a product they would offer to investors. 
As part of the process, third-party consultants produced a report on the EPS management, 
strategy, track record and governance.
Ive looked carefully at what Mr and Mrs S have said and the information provided by SJP. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that the due diligence conducted by 
SJP was inadequate. And, as Ive already concluded, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
SJP to recommend the EPS as a suitable product for Mr and Mrs S in view of their 
investment objectives. 
As Ive already noted, Oxford Capital had a mandate for making investment decisions on 
behalf of investors in the EPS. They would have been responsible for conducting due 
diligence on the investee companies, which were inherently risky businesses offering no 
guarantees of success. 
Mr and Mrs S have complained specifically about the level of gearing of the EPS investee 
companies and say this added substantial risk to the investment. The risks section of the IM 
said that investee companies may sometimes take on debt, for example to finance the 
purchase of assets. In my view that would not be unusual for new and developing 
companies. There was nothing in the IM to say that the level of gearing would be limited to a 
certain level.
So, I think the IM made clear that investee companies might borrow, and Ive not seen any 
evidence that SJP said anything to mislead Mr and Mrs S. As Ive already said, I think SJP 
made clear that the EPS was a high risk investment, and that Oxford Capital would be 
responsible for making investment decisions on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf. SJP were not 
responsible for those decisions or for the content of the investment manager reports that 
Oxford Capital provided to Mr and Mrs S after they had invested. And Im not persuaded that 
SJP should have done anything further on this point.   
Summary
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs S that Ive looked carefully at everything they have said. 
But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think SJP provided them with suitable advice and 
sufficiently clear information in relation to the investments they made. While I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs S feel strongly about what has happened to their investment, 
I dont think I can fairly hold SJP responsible for their losses. I note that SJP have previously offered to reduce Mr and Mrs Ss fees as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr and Mrs S should contact SJP directly if they now wish to discuss that offer. 
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr and Mrs S, but I wont be upholding their 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint against St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman