DRN-2199860
The complaint
Mr B complains AWP P&C SA unfairly refused his motor warranty claim and provided poor 
customer service. 
What happened
In 2020 Mr B made a claim on his AWP motor warranty. He had a problem with his car boot. 
AWP initially said the problem was boot struts. It said those were covered by his policy. It 
then said the problem was the boot hinges. It said these were excluded by the policy terms. 
So it declined his claim. 
Mr B was unhappy, so he cancelled his cover. AWP responded to a complaint he made. It 
said the policy didnt cover boot hinges and straps so the claim wasnt payable. Mr B didnt 
accept that, so he came to this service. Hes made a range of complaint points outlined 
below. As a resolution to his complaint he would like AWP to refund 12 months of premiums, 
improve its policy documentation, improve its call system and call handling and explain 
inconsistent dates on complaint correspondence.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He didnt accept that, so the complaint has 
come to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require AWP to do anything differently. 
Mr B seems to accept that its the boot hinges that needed replacing. He feels its illogical 
that boot struts are covered whilst hinges are excluded  considering they are positioned so 
closely physically. I can see hinges are excluded. Ive considered Mr Bs comments, but I 
cant say AWPs decision to refuse the claim is unfair or unreasonable. So Im not going to 
require it to pay for the repair. 
Mr B would like this service to require AWP to make changes to its documentation and 
customer service. But this service doesnt instruct firms in that way. Instead we require them 
to take steps to put things right for individual customers. We do that when we feel a 
customer has lost out as a result of a firms mistake. 
So, for example, if I felt Mr B had lost out financially as a result of the policy terms being 
unclear, I might require AWP to take steps to make up for his loss. But I wouldnt order AWP 
to amend its policy terms or documentation. I cant say that the policy terms, well presented 
or otherwise, have caused Mr B to lose out.  
Mr Bs level of cover is described as comprehensive. He feels thats misleading as the 
policy excludes a number of listed parts. Comprehensive is a word regularly used by 
insurers to describe a level of cover provided by a policy. Often its used, as in this case, to 
differentiate the policy from an alternative one that covers less items or risks.
 
I cant say its use of the word comprehensive in the policy terms is unfair. Mr Bs explained 
that he understood comprehensive polices dont cover everything and all eventualities. Hes 
referred to not expecting them to cover consumables like bulbs and tyres. I also wouldnt 
expect a comprehensive policy to cover every eventuality or item. 
If I thought Mr B had unfairly lost out because of AWPs call system I might ask it to take 
steps to put things right for him. That might involve paying him some compensation or 
making up for a financial loss.  But I wouldnt ask it to make changes to the system itself. 
Mr B says AWPs phone call system was difficult to navigate. He wasnt called back when 
the line was lost. He also says he was given inconsistent information about what would 
happen if he cancelled his cover. But I cant see he lost out financially as a result of his 
experiences calling AWP. I accept it may have caused him some frustration and 
inconvenience. But it doesnt seem to be significant enough for me to fairly require AWP to 
pay him any compensation.
Mr B queried why AWPs final response letter had a January 2020 date  but the envelope it 
arrived in had a post mark of March 2020. AWPs explained that its because the letter was 
reissued in March 2020. Mr B had been in touch to say he hadnt yet received a final 
response, so it sent a second copy. Its not clear what happened to the first copy but I hope 
AWPs explanation clears the matter up for Mr B.  
I understand Mr B will be frustrated by this response. Some of his requests for AWP to 
change its documentation or service provision might be more suitable for the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making AWP P&C SA do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman