DRN-3234510
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) should have defaulted his personal
loan earlier than they did. 
What happened
In July 2018, Mr M took out a personal loan of £15,000 with Sainsburys. Monthly 
repayments were £302.15 over 60 months. The APR was 8%. Payments were made each 
month up to and including February 2019. On 1 March 2019, Mr M went onto a debt 
management plan (DMP) with a debt charity. The schedule of debts totalled £36,248 with 
five creditors. Payments of £368 a month for the five creditors were agreed  including 
£100.91 for the Sainsburys personal loan  which then had a balance of £13,747. The 
payments to the DMP were maintained until April 2020  when a reduced payment of £50 
a month was made. And after that, payments were between £50 and £70 a month, rather 
than the agreed £368. The payments to Mr Ms loan with Sainsburys also reduced 
significantly, and Sainsburys agreed with the debt charity to default Mr Ms personal loan 
in May 2020. A default was registered in July 2020. Later, in February 2021, Mr M agreed 
with Sainsburys to settle the loan with a payment of £9,381  75% of the debt then 
outstanding. The account was shown as partially settled on his credit records.
Mr M complained  he said that Sainsburys shouldve defaulted his loan in May 2019  as 
his other creditors had done. He said he wanted to apply for credit as soon as possible and 
to have the default on his credit records for six years from July 2020 wasnt fair. He also 
said that in their final response, Sainsburys said theyd had no contact with the debt 
charity until May 2020  which wasnt correct.
Sainsburys said theyd correctly defaulted Mr Ms loan in July 2020. They advised Mr M of 
their intention to default in May 2020, sent him a Notice of Default on 11 May 2020 and 
registered the default on 12 July 2020. They said their first confirmed contact with the debt 
charity was in May 2020, and they didnt intend to mislead Mr M in their final response.
Mr M didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Sainsburys
should have defaulted his loan in March 2019  that was when he told Sainsburys that he 
couldnt afford the repayments and entered the DMP. His payments to Sainsburys via the 
DMP were £200 lower than the contractual payments  so it was clear he couldnt afford the 
loan from then. She said that in line with the ICO guidance, the default should be applied in 
March 2019.
Sainsburys didnt agree. They said that normally, DMPs are for three to six months  
sometimes 12 months. And  their process is that they like to allow customers the time of 
the whole payment plan to see if they can clear the arrears. Which is what they did in Mr 
Ms case.
And so  Mr Ms complaint has come to me to review.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
There are valid arguments on both sides of this complaint. On the one hand, Sainsburys 
say that they were trying to help Mr M by allowing him to go through the DMP to see if he 
could deal with the financial problems he had  and get himself straight. Of course, such an 
approach has a lot of merit  and many customers in financial difficulty would welcome that 
approach. On the other hand, sometimes following a process can lead to an unfair outcome 
in certain circumstances  which is what I think has happened here.
The guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their 
payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered 
by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. It is the business 
responsibility to put an entry on the credit file. This cannot be taken off unless it is an error.
And so  Ive considered Mr Ms complaint in the light of this guidance.
Mr Ms personal loan contract was to make monthly payment of £302.15 a month for 60 
months starting in July 2018. He made those payments successfully until February 2019  
when the last one was made. Ive seen that he entered a DMP with the debt charity on 1 
March 2019  at that stage, the loan balance was £13,747. As part of the DMP 
agreement, Sainsburys were to receive £100.91 a month  which was over £200 less that 
the contractual amount. Also, the payment to Sainsburys was only about £9 a month 
more than the interest on the outstanding loan  so there was little prospect of making any 
inroads into the capital amount owed. But importantly  the debt charity wrote to 
Sainsburys on 18 February 2019 and showed them what Mr Ms situation looked like. The 
letter showed that Mr M owed the five creditors £36,248, and his income and expenditure 
showed surplus income of £368 a month. And that was after allowing for the fact that his 
mother helped him out by paying his rent and utility bills. To me, this was a clear sign that 
Mr M couldnt afford to pay back his debts, including the loan from Sainsburys.
I can see from the notes on Mr Ms account that he called them on 1 March 2019 to tell them 
about the DMP. Theres also a note to say theyd received the letter from the debt charity. 
But  unfortunately, there isnt anything on file to say that Sainsburys considered the DMP 
and thought about what to do. Nor was there a reply from Sainsburys to the letter from the 
debt charity  which might have set out how Sainsburys were to deal with Mr Ms debt. The 
notes say they discussed with Mr M on the call on 1 March 2019 credit file impact, 
contact, interest, fees, potential for default  but nothing more than that. On 25 March 
2019  the notes mention possible charge off  which would mean a default. Later, in May 
2019  the notes say that interest would be stopped. In June 2019, the notes say the DMP 
arrangement set for 4 months  but I cant see there was a review undertaken then. So  it 
looks to me as if Sainsburys didnt properly get to grips with the DMP arrangement, Mr Ms 
circumstances - and what that might have meant for the repayment of the loan and Mr Ms 
credit file.
Looking at the payments to the loan  the DMP payments of around £100.91 a month were 
made between March 2019 through to March 2020. But  those payments were clearly a lot 
less that the contractual amount and so that by May 2019  Mr M was three months in 
arrears. I hear what Sainsburys have said  that they were trying to be helpful to Mr M  but 
in this case, given his circumstances, it didnt look likely that he was ever going to be able to 
get to a situation where he could repay his debts, and so the fairest thing to do was for 
Sainsburys to apply the default at that stage  in line with the ICO guidance.
And so  my provisional decision is that Sainsburys should remove the default dated July 
2020  and replace it with a default dated May 2019.Responses to the provisional decision:
Neither Sainsburys or Mr M had any comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Sainsburys or Mr M had any comments, I wont be departing from my provisional 
decision, and for the reasons I gave in it.
And so  my final decision is the same as the provisional decision.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. Sainsbury's Bank Plc must:
Replace the default on Mr Ms credit file registered in July 2020 with a default in May
2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman