DRN-2979164
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV (Cigna) mis-
sold a policy to her. 
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a private medical insurance policy with Cigna through Mr Cs employer. 
Mr C left his employment and spoke to Cigna about continuing cover. As Mrs C had a pre-
existing medical condition (PEMC), they took a policy with continuation of cover and no 
medical underwriting for a premium of over £1,000 per month. It was a non-advised sale but 
Mr and Mrs C called a number of times to ask questions about the policy. 
The policy had a cap on outpatient appointments which Mrs C wasnt aware of. And so this 
meant Mrs C would have to pay any costs above the cap as well as the monthly premiums. 
Mrs C said she had asked for and thought the cover would be the same as what she had 
when Mr C had the corporate policy. They complained to Cigna and unhappy with its 
response, referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Cigna had mis-sold the policy as it 
had failed to bring the outpatient limits to Mr and Mrs Cs attention. And had it done so, they 
wouldnt have taken the policy. She said Cigna should refund all premiums with 8% simple 
interest minus any claims paid. Both sides agreed to this and Cigna refunded the premiums 
with interest as well as £200 compensation as it delayed in providing the refund. 
Mrs C then received further invoices for treatment which shed had but which hadnt been 
paid by Cigna. She said Cigna should have paid these invoices and as it hadnt, this caused 
a delay which meant she had already spent the money Cigna had refunded.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the policy was mis-sold and that Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have 
bought the policy had they been made aware of the outpatient limits. Ive listened to the calls 
between Mr and Mrs C and Cigna before they agreed to take the policy and they were clear 
they needed the policy for check-ups and that they wanted cover specifically for Mrs Cs 
PEMC. I think a refund of premiums, plus interest is the correct resolution here. 
Mrs C is unhappy that Cigna didnt pay all the claims submitted to it. And has asked me to 
consider this part of her complaint as well as the original complaint which has meant that she 
has now been left without cover. Our investigator asked Cigna for details of the claims made 
and it explained that it didnt receive the unpaid claims until after the policy had been 
cancelled and premiums refunded. 
As this policy never would have been taken out, any claims paid by Cigna would need to be 
deducted from any premiums refunded and any future claims would be Mr and Mrs Cs 
responsibility. I have to consider whether Cignas actions resulted in a loss or detriment to 
Mrs C. As Cigna didnt receive the invoices until after the policy was cancelled, I wouldnt 
expect it to pay those claims. 
Mrs C says Cigna would have provided a guarantee of payment (GOP) for those claims and 
would have known to expect further claims. Even if Cigna had provided GOPs, I dont think 
its fair to say it should have done anything more when it agreed to cancel the policy and 
refund any premiums. Mrs C is suggesting it either should have paid those claims in which 
case those sums would have been deducted from any refund. Or that it should have told Mrs 
C that it hadnt received any invoices for claims on which it had already provided GOPs and 
that Mrs C should expect to pay herself.
Having considered the above, I dont think this is a reasonable position to take as it was 
clear to Mrs C that any claims already paid would be deducted from any refund due and any 
claims not paid, would be Mrs Cs responsibility. 
In relation to Mrs Cs complaint about the mis-sale and being left without cover, this was 
always a position Mrs C was going to be left in unless she was willing to pay large premiums 
and any costs above the policy limits. I cant ask Cigna to change its policy terms or remove 
any caps on its limits. And Im satisfied that if Cigna had given Mrs C the relevant information 
about its outpatient limits, its more likely than not that she wouldnt have bought the policy 
as it wouldnt have been suitable. And so I think a refund of premiums is the fair and 
reasonable outcome here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I agree that Cigna mis-sold the policy for which it has already 
refunded the premiums plus simple interest at 8%. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
further. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman