DRN-2764729
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr R and Mrs S payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr R and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr R says the bank manager and the in-house mortgage broker insisted that they take PPI. 
Mr R says it was clear he and Mrs S wouldnt have got the mortgage without PPI. Mr R says 
they had no choice. 
The difficulty I have with this is that I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything 
that happened about 23 years ago when the application was made. So it wouldnt normally 
be fair to rely only on what Mr R and Mrs S now remember; and there would need to be 
reasonable supporting evidence to show what happened. And I dont have other evidence to 
show that Lloyds made Mr R and Mrs S feel they had to take PPI. 
And I can see there is a letter to Mr R, dated 3 April 1998  which says:
We have enclosed your  Policy Schedule which confirms your policy details, who is 
covered, payment details, and your Statement of Cover. Please check them both to 
ensure that your cover is right for you, paying close attention to Section 2 - the Terms 
& Conditions of eligibility, section 4 - the Benefit Limitations, and section 5 - Policy 
Exclusions.
If you find that the cover is not suitable, please return your policy schedule with a 
covering letter to us within 30 days of receiving your documents, and the policy will 
be cancelled from its start date and any premium paid refunded, provided that no 
claim has been made.
In this letter Lloyds is actively reminding Mr R that he is doesnt have to have the PPI and 
can cancel it. This does support Lloyds claim that the PPI would have been presented as a 
choice. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. I will explain.
I think Lloyds Bank recommended the PPI to Mr R and Mrs S, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr R and Mrs Ss particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr R and 
Mrs Ss situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr R (the person covered by the PPI policy) was eligible for the policy, so 
would have been entitled to make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr R received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr R and 
Mrs S would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for 
paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr R and Mrs S 
in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness 
or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. And Mr R and Mrs S could have cancelled the policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr R and 
Mrs S would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr R and Mrs S to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
And I can see, from correspondence from the time, that Mr R did in fact need to make a 
claim and received benefits for a year in 1999. 
Overall, I dont have good evidence that the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman