DRN-2900528
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc forced him to take out a life assurance policy in order 
to secure new mortgage lending. To resolve his complaint, Mr T wants Santander to return 
the premiums he paid for the policy in full, with interest.  
What happened
Mr T met with Santander (then Abbey National) in 1994, to discuss converting his existing 
endowment mortgage into a capital repayment mortgage. The mortgage lending was agreed 
and Santander recommended that Mr T took out a life assurance policy with a term and sum 
assured matching the new borrowing. The policy ended in 2015.  
Mr T complained to Santander in 2019 regarding the sale of the policy, which he suspected 
may have been payment protection insurance (PPI). Mr T also complained about the sale of 
the endowment mortgage which had taken place in 1990 and Santander considered this 
separately. 
In respect of the life assurance policy, he said he was coerced into taking it out; the 
additional premiums made the policy unaffordable causing him financial hardship. He 
explained hed only wanted a capital repayment mortgage with no other additional policies. 
Santander looked into the sale of the policy and issued a final response in January 2020. It 
said that the complaint had been pursued too late, and fell outside of the time limits applying 
to complaints pursued to the Financial Ombudsman Service since the deadline for bringing 
PPI complaints had passed on 29 August 2019. 
In the interim, Mr T brought his complaint here. He explained that during the call to arrange 
converting the endowment mortgage to a repayment mortgage, he was told the only way this 
would be accepted was if he took out a life assurance (mortgage protection) policy too. In 
respect of Santanders comments on the PPI time limit, Mr T also explained why he believed 
exceptional circumstances applied to him. 
Santander then issued a further final response to the complaint regarding the life cover  
and it explained that this policy was materially different from PPI. Despite this, it rejected the 
complaint. It said there was no evidence demonstrating the cover was compulsory. It also 
explained that it still felt Mr T had complained too late under different three and six year time 
limits regarding bringing complaints to this service. 
The complaint was then considered by one of our investigators, who looked into whether the 
complaint should be allowed to proceed, as Santander had objected under the relevant 
rules. She felt the complaint was made in time, and Santander agreed to waive its objection.
A second investigator then looked at the merits of the complaint regarding the sale of the 
policy. He said that even where policies may be a compulsory term of securing mortgage 
lending, this would not automatically render personal protection unsuitable in the 
circumstances as some businesses might require security for large debts.  
However, on the evidence he had seen, he didnt find that Santander had required life cover 
to be a provision of mortgage lending at the time Mr T took out his borrowing. Further, he felt 
that Mr T had secured the conversion for his mortgage lending before he agreed to the life 
cover, and it did not follow that the policy would have been presented as compulsory.  
Mr T made some further submissions and asked for these to be passed to an ombudsman. 
He said he disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary, he said:
just because he never tried to cancel the policy does not mean that he wanted it in 
the first place;
a repayment protection policy would have actually been more suitable for his needs 
in that he could have had cover if he lost his job or became unwell  but Santander 
didnt discuss other cover with him;
a life assurance policy wouldnt have paid his mortgage repayments if he had died;
if he had lost his job and couldnt afford to pay his life assurance anymore, the policy 
was also worthless;
if a business can insist on life assurance being a condition of the lending then his 
argument that the cover was compulsory follows through;
the policy was never clearly explained to him and he was pressured to take it out;
though he may have been sent a letter at the start telling him he could cancel, this 
was irrelevant in effect, he couldnt cancel a policy where Santander said it was 
mandatory to secure his mortgage lending;
his priority at the time was ensuring the mortgage payments were met and ensuring 
his wife and children were looked after;
the public didnt know about wide-scale mis-selling until recent times  so he wasnt 
aware he had been mis-sold something he didnt want or need until now;
he would never have agreed to the cover if he had known of the commission 
payment that the adviser would receive;
the original endowment mortgage sale of 1990 has been settled as a complaint of 
mis-selling  it is therefore not unreasonable to surmise that just four years later 
Abbey National (now Santander) did the same thing with the life assurance policy 
particularly when considered against the background of systemic mis-selling. 
Santander had nothing further to add. The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Though I realise this will not be the outcome Mr T has hoped for, I do not believe 
this complaint should be upheld. 
I can appreciate why Mr T initially took the view that his policy might have been a PPI policy, 
as it was marketed by Abbey National as a type of mortgage protection. However, the policy 
was not PPI. That is a different type of cover, primarily designed to offer protection for the 
repayments to a lending should a policyholder fall ill, be unable to work or face defined 
circumstances where he or she cannot meet repayments of a specified debt. 
Mr Ts policy was for life assurance; in return for continued payments of a monthly premium 
over the policy term, the policy provided a lump sum payment (the sum assured) broadly 
matching that of his outstanding capital repayment mortgage should he have passed away. 
At that point, the policy would then cease. If no claim is made it is otherwise designed to run to the term set out  and in Mr Ts case, the cover ended in July 2015.  
I realise that Mr T feels particularly strongly that this policy was not presented as optional. 
He says it was put to him during a call with Abbey National that he had to consider protection 
insurance or he was otherwise unable to convert his mortgage from the endowment 
mortgage to his preferred type of capital repayment mortgage.
Unfortunately, there is no call recording available  and given that the call took place some 
27 years ago, I cannot say Santander is unfair for not having retained it, noting it has 
relevant duties around the storing of customer information. 
I have no reason to dispute Mr Ts recollection, and I can see he has gone into some detail 
about what happened at the time. However, whilst this evidence is something I take into 
account, I must also weigh up Santanders version of events  which contrasts considerably 
to Mr Ts explanation. 
I have also considered any other evidence such as contemporaneous documentation from 
the times of the re-mortgage and the sale. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have 
concluded what I believe is most likely, on the balance of probabilities.
My view is that Mr T was given sufficient information to be clear that this policy was not 
mandatory, not just at the meeting of June 1994 but before it. I say that because the request 
from Mr T to convert his mortgage took place in April 1994, and the life assurance policy to 
run alongside the mortgage did not come into force until September 1994. I believe Mr T 
would have had time to reflect on the sale outside of the meeting held in June 1994. So, if he 
felt the proposal wasnt for him, he could have decided not to go ahead with it. 
I can see Mr T has addressed this point with our investigator  explaining that he could not 
cancel the cover because of the way he was told it was conditional to secure the lending  
but the evidence does not set that out. On 29 April 1994, the mortgage team at Abbey 
National wrote to Mr T and agreed to convert the mortgage type to capital repayment. It did 
not specify any conditions of the lending.  
The letter did refer to life cover, but Abbey National did so because the endowment 
mortgage had a life assurance element built into the mortgage and Mr T would be losing that 
cover if he converted the mortgage as he had asked. For that reason, the letter explained 
that Mr T should contact Abbey National if he required further financial advice.  
Mr T then sent Abbey National a letter dated 20 May 1994. In that letter he supplied the 
required form for the conversion to be finalised. He also set out that I would also like to take 
out a Mortgage Protection Policy for the same length of time as the unexpired mortgage and 
to coincide with the same start date as the conversion. I would be most grateful if you could 
kindly arrange this as well.
Abbey National wrote back to Mr T on 2 June 1994 confirming the conversion was complete. 
In that letter the mortgage adviser said she had made contact with a separate financial 
adviser who would be contacting Mr T in due course. 
Mr T thereafter met with the adviser to arrange a decreasing term life assurance policy with 
a sum assured and term matching the new mortgage  with a recommendation from that 
meeting being issued on 21 June 1994. The policy started in September 1994. 
The new mortgage type was in force before Mr T met with Abbey Nationals adviser. I do not 
consider that it follows that Mr T likely felt the policy was a condition of the lending  that 
lending had already been agreed and the conversion was complete. I also believe Mr Ts letter was unequivocal in that he wanted protection for his mortgage. If he had changed his 
mind about that, he could have cancelled the cover as set out in the policy documentation.   
Further, the documentation issued when Mr T met the adviser says that suitable buildings 
insurance was a condition of the loan, but other protection was only a recommendation. 
I can see Mr T now says that life assurance was not suitable protection for his mortgage. 
However, I believe the recommendation made to him was suitable. I note that Mr T has had 
a separate complaint upheld about the sale of the endowment mortgage. However, even if 
the first mortgage might not have been a suitable recommendation in 1990, that has no 
bearing on this complaint about the separate sale of life cover in 1994.
Though Mr T contends otherwise, a life assurance policy would have offered protection in 
the event of his death. The documentation he was issued explains how The Mortgage 
Protection Plan is a simply policy which ensures your mortgage is paid off should you (or 
your partner if jointly insured) die before the mortgage has come to an end.   
I know Mr T says his mortgage repayments were priority for him as he had three (adult) 
children at the time and he considered them to be financial dependants. But that is the 
protection that this policy offered should Mr T have passed away. Rather than covering the 
repayments, the policy would have paid out a sum assured that broadly matched the 
outstanding repayment mortgage as the policys value decreased alongside the reducing 
mortgage balance. 
Insurances such as life assurance are a prudent step to take to provide security for a 
significant liability such as a mortgage. Mr T was the sole mortgage applicant and Ive seen 
no evidence that he held life assurance elsewhere; on the contrary, converting the mortgage 
meant he had a documented need for life cover. 
The recommendation issued to Mr T on 21 June 1994 expressly says Mr T specifically 
requested a mortgage protection policy. The cover offered him the protection he says he 
wanted for his wife and three children.  
There is no other documentation from the time of the sale that exists. Specifically, there isnt 
contemporaneous evidence of Mr Ts finances and I note on the questionnaire he initially 
supplied to Santander regarding PPI he has said he was unsure of his income at the time. 
While I am mindful Mr T says the policy was unaffordable, I must weigh that against his 
instruction to take out the cover and that he was issued cancellation rights to cease the 
policy at any time. If Mr T had felt that the policy caused him financial difficultly, Id expect 
that hed likely have raised this at some point with Santander. 
The policy ran for its entire term and so, Mr Ts family could reasonably have pursued a 
claim under the policy if required. As such, I dont agree that the policy premiums ought to be 
returned to him when those premiums paid for insurance that Santander (previously Abbey 
National) has reasonably provided until the policy reached its full term in 2015.   
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman