DRN-3058153
The complaint
Mrs T complains that MBNA Limited wont reopen her card account so that she can 
complete a balance transfer to another card, and it wont extend the interest free period on 
her card.
What happened
Mrs T told us that shed transferred some debts belonging to a family member onto her credit 
card with MBNA. This was on the understanding that this person would keep paying the 
debt. Mrs T said that there was then a falling out, and the family member stopped paying 
towards those debts. So she has been left with credit card debts, which she told MBNA shes 
had difficulty paying. Mrs T told MBNA about her difficulties in November 2018, and she said 
she hadnt understood then that a block MBNA placed on her card would be permanent.
Mrs T said she needs to provide an expiry date for her existing card, when shes trying to 
make a balance transfer. And she cant do that because her MBNA card has expired. Mrs T 
wanted MBNA to reinstate her account so she could make a balance transfer elsewhere, or 
alternatively, to extend her interest free period. 
MBNA said that in November 2018, it blocked the account, after speaking to Mrs T about 
difficulties she was having making her repayments. MBNA didnt think it had made a 
mistake, and it said it wouldnt reopen Mrs T account now. It would waive interest for Mrs Ts 
April, May and June 2021 statements, but then she would start to be charged interest. 
MBNA then charged interest by mistake on Mrs Ts May statement. It refunded this, and paid 
her £50 on top to say sorry.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she appreciated that 
there may have been a misunderstanding in November 2018, because Mrs T thought that 
any block on her account was temporary. But our investigator said that MBNA has confirmed 
that once an account is withdrawn its unable reinstate it. Our investigator said that was 
MBNAs decision to make. She said that Mrs Ts monthly statements confirmed that the 
account was closed. So our investigator thought that Mrs T would have been aware of 
MBNAs actions. 
Our investigator noted that MBNA had extended Mrs Ts interest free period until the end of 
June 2021, as a gesture of good will in the circumstances. Our investigator thought that this 
was fair and reasonable.
Our investigator didnt think that MBNA had put unreasonable barriers in place to Mrs T 
moving this debt elsewhere. And it didnt have to offer Mrs T a different promotional rate  
there were no offers available. Our investigator understood Mrs Ts frustrations, and the 
difficulty placed on her by her personal circumstances, but our investigator didnt think 
MBNA had done anything wrong. 
Mrs T didnt agree. She didnt think this was fair, and she still wanted MBNA to extend the
interest free period for another 12 months. Our investigator said she hadnt changed her 
mind. She suggested some sources of support, if Mrs T is struggling with her finances.
Because no agreement was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I understand that Mrs Ts family dispute has left her in a difficult financial position. But I dont 
think what has happened here is MBNAs fault. 
MBNA responded to Mrs Ts concerns about whether her card payments remained 
affordable for her in 2018. As part of that, it closed her account for any further spending. The 
account remains open only so that she can make payments to it.
I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for MBNA to close Mrs Ts account for any further 
spending in 2018. And although I understand that Mrs T didnt realise at the time that this 
was permanent, MBNAs notes do say that this was explained at the time. And the status of 
her account does seem to be noted on Mrs Ts statements. So I cant say that it was MBNAs 
fault if Mrs T hadnt realised that her account was permanently closed.
Mrs T would like MBNA to reopen her account now, so she can make a balance transfer. 
She says that without an active card on the account, shes having difficulty moving to a 
different interest free offer. Or, alternatively, she would like MBNA to extend the interest free 
offer on her card. But Im sorry to have to tell Mrs T that I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to tell MBNA to do either of those things. 
If MBNA didnt make a mistake in closing Mrs Ts account, then its difficult for me to say that 
it should have to reopen it now. And I wouldnt expect MBNA to simply waive further interest, 
or extend the interest free period. MBNA has offered to discuss Mrs Ts financial situation 
with her in more detail, if she would like, and says it may be able to help. But if it does 
decide, as part of that, to waive further interest, then the usual procedure would be for this to 
form part of an arrangement which would affect Mrs Ts credit file. 
Our investigator has also suggested other sources of support if Mrs T is in financial 
difficulties. I hope that Mrs T will feel able to access whatever support she needs. 
I do understand what Mrs T has told us, about the difficulties shes in right now not being of 
her own making. But I think that the support that MBNA is offering, although it does fall short 
of what Mrs T wants, still provides a fair and reasonable response. So Im sorry to have to 
tell her that this complaint wont be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman