DRN-4469533
The complaint
Mrs O complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have refused to refund her for a 
transaction on her account she says she didnt make. 
What happened
Mrs O says that a debit card transaction made on her Barclays account on 2 May 2023 for 
£3,135.80 wasnt made by her. She says it is a fraudulent transaction and she wants 
Barclays to refund her the money. Mrs O says she thinks her phone was hacked when she 
recently had it repaired. 
Barclays says they think Mrs O was responsible for the transaction as it was verified on her 
mobile banking before they allowed the payment to go through. And this was done on her 
usual mobile device and from an IP address that is usually used for her online banking. 
Our investigator considered all the evidence and decided not to uphold the complaint. Mrs O 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider more likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  specifically
whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So, when we look at
whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we
consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them to be
made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
Barclays have provided evidence to show that the debit card transaction was verified via 
Mrs Os mobile banking app before they allowed the payment to go through. This means 
Mrs O was directed to log into her mobile banking and confirm that the transaction was 
genuine, and not fraudulent. Ive also seen evidence that the verification was carried out on 
Mrs Os usual mobile device, from her usual IP address. Mrs O has confirmed that she had 
her debit card and her mobile phone in her possession at the time the transaction was made. 
So, the evidence suggests the transaction was made and authorised by Mrs O.
Ive thought about what Mrs O has said about the transaction being carried out in the early 
hours of the morning, when she was asleep. But that doesnt explain how the transaction 
was verified using her mobile phone while her debit card was in her possession. So, I am not 
persuaded by this evidence, and it doesnt change my decision. 
Ive also considered the evidence Mrs O has provided to support her claim that her phone 
was hacked. Mrs O has suggested that it may have been hacked when she sent her phone 
in for repairs. She has also provided evidence that several messages were sent from her 
phone to a number she doesnt recognise, and she is concerned that all her personal 
information from her phone was send to this number. I reviewed this evidence carefully, but I 
still dont think this changes my decision. I say this because all the evidence regarding her 
phone repairs relate to 4 May 2023  two days after the transaction in dispute took place. In 
addition, the messages that Mrs O says may have contained her details were sent on 3 and 
4 May 2023. As the evidence suggesting her details may have been compromised relate to 
dates after the disputed transaction, I am not persuaded that this explains how the 
transaction was made on 2 May 2023. And in any event, this doesnt explain how the 
transaction in dispute was verified using Mrs Os mobile banking app, which was protected 
by a passcode. 
For all the reasons outlined above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything further.      
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman