DRN-4326946
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that MoneyGram International Limited (MoneyGram) refused to carry out a 
service for him. Mr F is insulted by this and wants to know why he is restricted from using its 
services. 
What happened
Mr F visited a shop of MoneyGram to arrange a money transfer where he was advised that 
he was not able to send the money due to being blocked. 
Mr F complained to MoneyGram about this. MoneyGram says all transactions are subject to 
careful review and ongoing monitoring and that it conducts periodic reviews of consumers 
activities and may put restrictions in place. In Mr Fs case following review it took the 
decision to restrict the services he uses and due to security reasons, it isnt able to provide 
information about its review process.
Mr F was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
MoneyGram hadnt treated Mr F unfairly as its terms and conditions allow it to refuse a 
service and it doesnt need to provide a reason why. 
Mr F disagreed, he says he was told he was banned as he was a security risk and wants to 
know why and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr F has experienced and see if MoneyGram has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr F back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award compensation that I 
think is fair and reasonable.
As a general rule MoneyGram isnt obliged to continue offering a service to a customer if it 
doesnt want to or provide a reason or justification for its decision not to. Just as a customer 
doesnt have to explain why they may take their business elsewhere. What services a 
business provides and to who is a commercial decision and not something for me to get 
involved with.
That being said it wouldnt be fair for MoneyGram to refuse Mr F a service outside its terms 
and conditions or without reason.
MoneyGrams terms and conditions under section 3.4. say that it may at its sole and 
absolute discretion refuse to accept a transfer where:
(a) by doing so we might break any law, regulation, code or other duty that applies to us; (b) 
doing so may expose us to action from any government or regulator; (c) it may be linked with 
fraudulent or illegal activity or used for an unlawful purpose; or (d) we have taken a decision 
to do so in accordance with our internal policies. In such cases, we will endeavour where 
allowed by law and our internal policies to provide the reason for refusing to accept the 
Transfer.
So in short MoneyGrams terms and conditions say it can refuse a service and doesnt need 
to provide a reason why. 
Even though MoneyGram doesnt have to provide a specific reason why a customer cant 
use a service it provides, Id expect its reasons for not providing a service to be fair and 
reasonable. And from the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that MoneyGrams reasons for 
not wanting to carry out Mr Fs transfer are due to legitimate concerns it has and its need to 
protect customers.
I appreciate Mr F feels personally insulted by MoneyGrams decision  but he should bear in 
mind that MoneyGram takes these precautions to protect both the sender and the recipient 
of money transfers from potential fraudulent activity and it accepts that sometimes legitimate 
transactions are disrupted.
So on this basis Im satisfied MoneyGram hasnt made an error or treated Mr F unfairly. It 
was entitled to restrict the services it offers to Mr F and doesnt need to provide a reason. 
And it follows that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman