DRN-1556973
 
Complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI).
Background
Mr M took out a loan with Nationwide in 1995. He was sold a PPI policy at the same time in 
connection with this loan.
The PPI would have covered Mr Ms loan repayments if he was off work sick for 24 months 
(if this was a secured loan) and potentially for the remaining term of the loan (if this was an 
unsecured loan). Either way it would have paid up to 12 months per claim Mr M lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr M was eligible under the policy. Based on what Mr M has 
told us about his age, employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr M 
would have been eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr M that the PPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to his account. Mr M says he that the PPI was added without his 
knowledge. Nationwide disagree with Mr M.
Nationwide no longer have the documents available from the time of the sale to show how 
PPI would have been presented. This is entirely understandable given that the sale took 
place around 25 years ago. And while I appreciate what Mr M has told us, I have to take into 
account the length of time that has passed since the sale. I have seen sample 
documentation from the time of the sale which refers to PPI as optional and note that part 
of Nationwides procedure at the time of the sale was for a separate direct debit mandate to 
be completed in respect of the PPI.
Bearing all this in mind, I cant say its more likely that Nationwide didnt make it clear to Mr 
M that the policy was optional or that they added it without his knowledge. Nationwide generally sold PPI at the time of the sale on a non-advised basis. I havent 
seen any evidence that would suggest that something different happened on this particular 
occasion. This means Nationwide didnt need to take steps to check if PPI was suitable for 
Mr M. So, for example, they didnt need to take into account Mr Ms existing repayment 
provisions or check whether the PPI was affordable for Mr M when selling Mr M PPI.
But Nationwide did have to provide Mr M with clear information so that he could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn Mr 
Ms attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
Its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr M all the information as they should have at the point 
at which Mr M chose to take PPI. But this in itself doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold as I have 
to go on and consider whether better information would have put Mr M off taking PPI. And I 
dont think it would have. I say this because:
 
Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions/restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for him to make a claim. 
 
The policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Ms employee sick pay. And it 
potentially could have done so for a much longer period of time. It would also have 
paid out for up to 12 months if he lost his job. 
 
The sample credit agreements show that the cost of the policy would have been set 
out clearly. In any event, I havent seen evidence to suggest the policy was 
unaffordable to Mr M at the time of the sale.
 
Mr M could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially. I note 
what Mr Ms representative says about Mr Ms policy being cancelled incorrectly. 
However, my decision relates only to whether Mr M was missold the policy to begin 
with and not with what happened afterwards.
 
Having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr M this PPI 
policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman