DRN-2361317
Complaint
Mr M says Lloyds Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
The policy covered him for accident, sickness, unemployment and life.
Background
Mr M bought the policy during a meeting in 1997. The PPI was taken out at the same time as 
a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. In 
summary, he has told us he was young and nave and was in debt at the time of the sale. He 
says he was asked to visit the branch to sort out his finances, but he didnt fully understand 
what was being said. Having looked at a copy of the application form from 1997, Mr M 
agrees that the application possibly shows his signature, but that the form was completed for 
him as it is not his handwriting. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. I will now explain my reasons. 
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr M that the policy was optional, and it had to gain his 
consent before applying PPI to his account. Lloyds isnt able to provide all of its paperwork 
from when the sale of the PPI took place. However, this isnt surprising given the sale took 
place over 23 years ago. But Lloyds has been able to provide a copy of Mr Ms credit card 
application form from 1997. Looking at this, I can see that under the Optional features 
section Mr M was given the choice of ticking next to Payment Protection Plan to have it 
added to his account. On Mr Ms application form, there is a tick in the box, indicating he 
wanted it. Mr M has also signed the application form agreeing to its contents.
I note that on the application form under the same Optional features section Mr M also had 
the option of selecting whether he wanted other benefits. This included Personal 
Identification Number and Card Registration and Protection. One of these other options 
was selected. This suggests Mr M was aware of the fact that he had a choice when it came 
to any of the additional products listed on the application form. 
I have also thought carefully about Mr M saying he feels strongly that PPI was taken out 
without his permission. But even if I accept that a staff member physically filled in parts of 
the application form for Mr M (something I dont find surprising or unreasonable given the 
context of the sale), Ive got no reason to think they didnt discuss the PPI section with him 
before this option was selected and he signed the application form agreeing to its contents. 
So, on a balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr M agreed to the PPI knowing he had 
a choice.
Mr M does not recall whether he received any advice when he took out the PPI. Lloyds 
doesnt have any details of how the policy was sold, but it has looked at the complaint as 
though it did give advice. This means Lloyds had to check the policy was right for Mr M and 
based on what Ive seen of Mr M circumstances at the time, I think that it was right for him. 
He was eligible for cover and I cant see that he would have been affected by any of the 
things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr M told us he would have been entitled to 6 months or more, but less than 12 months sick 
pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work and his job came with a redundancy 
package. Hes also told us he was enrolled in a share save scheme and although he cant 
recall the amount he had at the time, he says he could take his money out at any time. In 
addition, he said he was living with his parents at the time and could have asked them to 
help if needed. 
Having thought about what Mr M has told us about sick pay and redundancy pay, I dont 
think this means Lloyds was wrong to recommend the PPI to him. I say this because the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to the sick pay he would have received from his employer 
and would potentially have paid out for longer than he would have received full pay  up to 
12 months. The PPI would also have paid a benefit if he was ever made redundant, in 
addition to any redundancy payment he would have received from his employer and for up to 
12 months. And it also would have paid a benefit in the event of death. So I think the PPI 
would have been useful to Mr M if he ever became too unwell to work or lost his job. 
Ive thought about the share save scheme Mr M has provided details about. But Im not 
persuaded this shows he didnt need PPI. Mr M has been unable to say how much he had in 
the share scheme at the time of the sale. The PPI would have meant he could have kept any 
shares he had for use at a later time if he wished or he could have used them to cover any 
other financial commitments he may have had at what could have been a difficult time. 
Ive also noted what Mr M has said about living with his parents and being able to rely on 
them to help with repayments if needed. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt 
useful for him. Whilst Mr Ms parents may have wanted to help, their financial situation could 
change, so this help couldnt always be relied on. 
Finally, Mr M has told us about his financial circumstances at the time of the sale  in 
particular about requiring consolidation of an overdraft and loan debt and arranging a 
repayment plan. But Lloyds has told us it doesnt have any information about Mr M being in 
financial difficulty at the time of the sale. So whilst I have considered Mr Ms comments, I 
dont think I have seen enough to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable for him at the time and 
he could have cancelled it at any time if he could no longer afford it. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the 
policy could have been useful to him. So I dont think better information would have stopped 
him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments, including what he has said about receiving a 
refund for another PPI policy he had. But I am only able to consider all of the information 
about the PPI taken out with his credit card in 1997 and so this point doesnt change my 
conclusion. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman