DRN-3820206
The complaint
Miss B complains that Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited is holding her liable for the 
full amount due under a fixed sum loan agreement.
What happened
In January 2021, Miss B enquired about some training courses from a supplier Ill refer to as 
E. She had a call with E to discuss what she was looking for. Miss B said she was looking 
for a new career in a specific field and E talked her through some of the different courses 
they offer. E suggested a particular course which it said would see her qualified within six to 
twelve months and E would also ensure it found her employment at the end of the course. 
Miss B then attended an event which gave her more details about the course and following a 
further conversation with E, she agreed to sign up to the course. The course cost £4,950 and 
was paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement from Future Finance. However, the loan 
agreement was set up for an amount of £5,000. 
The agreement was for 99 months. For the first 15 months Miss B was required to pay 
monthly repayments of £15, followed by 84 monthly repayments of £141.05. The interest 
rate on the agreement was a variable 18.56% per year, however, it was interest free on the 
first £75 of the capital. Assuming the interest rate stayed the same throughout the life of the 
agreement and Miss B didnt repay early, the total repayable was £11,921.57, which 
included an origination charge (set-up fee) of £325. 
Miss B electronically signed the credit agreement on 20 January 2021. It was signed by 
Future Finance on 27 January 2021 and became an executed agreement on this date. 
However, Miss B didnt sign the contract for her course with E until the next day, on 
28 January 2021.
The contract for the course stated that it would last up to twelve months. It said that if Miss B 
successfully passed all exams and attended all required support workshops that E would 
guarantee to find her employment at the end of the course. It also said that Miss B had 14 
days in which to change her mind and cancel the contract to receive a refund. 
Miss B started her course and completed the majority of the classroom based teaching 
modules and received services through Es job support service, including the offer of a job 
with E themselves. However, in July 2021, Miss B emailed E to say that she wasnt satisfied 
with the course because she had been treated badly by E and had been misled. She said 
the course was no longer useful to her and the career advice she received was not up to her 
expectations. She said tutors had been unable to assist her with obstacles she faced during 
her study. 
Miss B wanted a refund of everything she had paid. E didnt agree to a refund as Miss B had 
already completed the majority of the course, she just hadnt completed the exams. Miss B 
also complained to Future Finance, who also didnt agree to provide her with a refund for the 
course it funded through the loan. However, Future Finance and E did agree to refund 
Miss B £50 because it had charged too much on the loan agreement compared to the price 
of the course. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think there was any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by E for which Future Finance could be liable for. 
She thought the offer to refund £50 to Miss B was fair and reasonable. 
Future Finance accepted that outcome, but Miss B didnt. In summary, she said:
She wasnt presented with the terms and conditions of the course prior to signing the 
loan agreement. Not being given the terms and conditions before signing the 
agreement is misrepresentation and a crime.  
E ignored her contact attempts after the course started and didnt keep promises that 
had been made. The contract between her and E was unfair. 
There was a lack expertise and professionalism from E when providing the course 
and this was a breach of contract. E hasnt provided the services it promised her.  
E made an offer of a job as promised, however, the job had nothing to do with the 
course she was studying. She had to turn the job down because of the very low pay 
on offer and the fact they wouldnt allow her to work from home three days per week. 
The terms and conditions of the course set out that E had to offer her a job relevant 
to the course she was studying, so this was a breach of contract. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B is unhappy with the actions of E in relation to her contract for the course she signed 
up to. However, this complaint that Im considering relates to Future Finance and whether 
they have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss B. In certain circumstances, section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) has the effect of holding Future Finance 
jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by E. For completeness, Im 
satisfied those circumstances apply here.
Future Finance hasnt upheld Miss Bs claim and complaint for a refund under section 75. 
Ive thought about whether its acted fairly and reasonably in doing so, taking into account 
the relevant law. 
Miss B has raised several points which she believes demonstrates there was a breach of 
contract and/or a misrepresentation by E and therefore something which Future Finance 
could be jointly liable for under section 75. Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, but having 
considered everything thats been said and provided, Im not persuaded that Future Finance 
has acted unfairly and unreasonably in turning down her claim and complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces someone to enter into a 
contract they otherwise wouldnt have done. A failure to provide the terms and conditions 
prior to signing wouldnt on its own be a misrepresentation, but Ive thought about what those 
terms say and Miss Bs actions after she did receive them.  
I do have some concern that Miss B was made to sign the loan agreement with Future Finance a week before actually agreeing to enter into the course. While I say this, in this 
specific case I havent seen anything to make me think it caused any detriment to Miss B. 
Miss B says she wasnt presented with the terms and conditions of the course prior to 
entering into the loan, and Im satisfied that was likely to be the case. However, it seems she 
did receive the terms and conditions of the course when she signed the contract for the 
course (Ive seen evidence it was sent to her email address for her to electronically sign, 
which she did). 
When Miss B received the terms and conditions for the course, she could still have cancelled 
it and received a refund, as well as cancelling the finance agreement with Future Finance, if 
she wasnt happy with the terms. However, she didnt do this. Nor did she seek to cancel 
until many months later, after shed already attended and used the majority of the course 
and its various support services. So, it seems to me that the course, loan and their 
respective terms were acceptable to Miss B, but that she much later decided they werent. 
I therefore dont think the time delay of a week between signing the finance and course 
contracts made any material difference to her decision to enter the course and loan.  
Miss B has said that she was promised work in a relevant field to the course she was going 
to study. Having listened to the calls that took place prior to her signing up to the course and 
loan, I agree that a guarantee of employment was given to her. I note the terms and 
conditions of the course also provide a similar guarantee. Miss B says these promises were 
untrue. However, Im not persuaded thats the case. 
I say this because the job guarantee was very clearly explained to her (both over the phone 
and in the written contract) that it required her to pass the exams first. Miss B didnt pass the 
exams prior to her stopping the course. So, she therefore never gave E an opportunity to 
fulfil that part of the contract as she stopped it before it could ever be provided. Im therefore 
not persuaded the job guarantee was misrepresented as it is still possible this would have 
been offered to her if she had passed the exams.
Miss B says a job was offered to her, but this wasnt relevant to the course she was 
studying. I dont think this demonstrates any breach of contract or misrepresentation. As Ive 
said above, at the point this job was offered Miss B hadnt passed the required exams on the 
course. She had never been promised work relevant to the course until those exams had 
been passed.
Miss B says that E were unprofessional and lacked expertise on the subject matter of the 
course. But other than Miss B saying these things, shes not provided any persuasive 
evidence to demonstrate that the course and/or its tutors were not qualified or lacking 
expertise. While shes said that her calls werent returned and that tutors couldnt help her 
with several obstacles shes faced. Ive not seen anything to persuade me that these issues 
reasonably prevented her from completing the course or that they were severe enough to 
constitute a breach of contract. 
From what Ive seen, it seems Miss B had completed the majority of the course at the time 
she asked to cancel so this demonstrates to me these issues didnt stop her from studying. 
Similarly, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that there was anything unfair in the 
contract between Miss B and E that would have constituted a breach of contract that Future 
Finance would be jointly liable for. 
Lastly, Future Finance has accepted that it overcharged Miss B by £50 and E has arranged 
for that £50 to be deducted from the loan agreement. As £75 of the capital under the loan 
agreement was interest free, this additional £50 that was charged in error hasnt cost Miss B 
anything further in interest under the loan. Therefore, the refund will place her back in the 
position she should have been in if the correct amount been charged and is a fair way to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman