DRN-3898773
The complaint
Mr R complains that Valour Finance Limited, lent to him irresponsibly as it did not carry out 
enough checks to realise that he had persistent debt issues. 
What happened
Mr R applied for a loan in December 2016 which he explained was for some household 
appliances and to help with Christmas costs. The loan was approved for £1,200 at 15 
months of £160 a month commencing 23 December 2016. The loan was paid off early. 
In February 2022 Mr R says that because of this loan and others he ended up in a debt 
management plan (DMP) and he says this is due to the irresponsible decision to lend to him 
by Valour. 
Valours final response letter to him in March 2022 explained that it was not upholding his 
complaint. Valour said it had carried out checks and Mr R had enough income after 
deducting his credit commitments and other bill commitments to pay for the £1,200 loan. 
Mr R referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service that same month.
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and thought, at first, that Mr R was in a 
financial position where he had a lot of debt and was deeply overdrawn on his bank account. 
Valour sent information and submissions to correct that and so our adjudicator reissued his 
view and thought that Valour had done enough to satisfy itself that Mr R could afford the 
loan. The overdraft situations were historic and had been paid off. And there were other 
details the adjudicator explained in his second view, copies of which have been sent to both 
parties. 
Mr R disagreed and the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Valour needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could include several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Valour should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But as Mr R took one loan only from 
Valour then this does not really apply to his complaint. 
Valour was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. I have decided not to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint and I explain why in the following paragraphs. 
For a first loan of £1,200 over a relatively short term length (fifteen months) then I consider 
that Valour did all I would have expected it to have done before approving the loan. It carried 
out a detailed telephone interview with Mr R after he had applied. I have listened to that 
recorded call. It asked Mr R about items which had been picked up on the credit search it 
had carried out and these included asking him about the £6,000 loan he had taken earlier in 
2016. And why one of his credit cards with a £300 limit was at £318. And Mr R explained 
that one application for a credit card had been for a holiday the family had taken. 
Mr R agreed with Valour that he earned around £2,700 after tax each month and that the 
£130 a month child benefit was in his wifes name and so Valour did not include that in its 
income and expenditure assessment. I have reviewed the credit search that Valour did at the time in December 2016 and I do not 
think that it would likely have caused concern to Valour. And I say this because Mr Rs 
overall credit record was not particularly poor. He had around £13,300 he owed on loans and 
around £2,600 on rolling credit which would have included his credit cards and any mail 
order accounts. I have seen, and Mr R was able to confirm to Valour on the telephone call, 
that at the time he was repaying to credit companies around £440 a month. That would have 
translated into about 18% of his net income which I do not think Valour would have 
considered a high percentage. 
He had no recent defaults. Any arrears had been in relation to accounts some time before. I 
do not necessarily expect a lender to be reviewing six years of closed accounts. But the 
credit situation as revealed by the search Valour carried out did not show anything with 
which to be concerned in my view. 
These details would not have prompted Valour to consider that it needed to do more and so 
I would have considered it disproportionate, for example, for Valour to have asked to see 
Mr Rs copy bank statements.
Mr R has sent to us many copies of his bank statements, some of which go back to 2011. It 
was a joint account. As I have already said, I would not have expected Valour to have asked 
to see these but as Mr R has sent them in to us I have considered them. 
Having said that, I have not reviewed those which significantly pre-date the December 2016 
application to Valour as they would not have been proximate enough even if Valour had 
looked at them. And any statements after December 2016 would not be relevant to an 
application made in December 2016. But the ones I looked at (around October, November 
and December 2016) showed payments being made to the usual household bills and to the 
creditors revealed on the credit search Valour already had. 
Valour carried out proportionate checks on a loan application Mr R made to it and I do not 
uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman