DRN-4228695
The complaint
Ms D complains Barclays Bank UK PLC lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms D took out the following loans with Barclays, and complains they shouldnt have been 
approved because they were unaffordable:
Account Date opened Amount Term 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentDate closed
Loan one 10 June 2011 £6,000 Unknown £174.88 8 August 2011
Loan two 8 July 2011 £1,200 Unknown Unknown 8 August 2011
Loan three 29 July 2011 £8,500 60 £245.42 2 March 2015
Loan four 14 June 2013 £5,100 60 £147.24 7 May 2018
Loan five 24 February 2015 £3,300 60 £95.05 4 April 2019
After reviewing everything, our Investigator only felt loan five shouldnt have been given to 
Ms D. He explained had Barclays carried out sufficient checks, they ought to have known 
this loan was unlikely to be affordable for Ms D. He said this because Barclays contact 
notes showed Ms D had struggled making repayments for loan three the year before taking 
out this loan. Hed also seen Ms D had taken out a high-cost loan, two months before loan 
five was approved; and having reviewed Ms Ds statements, he considered her outgoings 
were greater than her income  meaning the loan would have always been unaffordable, 
even if previous accounts of Ms Ds had closed.
Barclays disagreed and explained loan five was requested by Ms D, and they felt it would 
have been beneficial to her because some of the funds were used to consolidate her debts. 
They also explained they hadnt seen enough information to persuade them Ms D had 
difficulties repaying the loan  especially given it was repaid early.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so Ms Ds complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im upholding this complaint  in part. Ill explain my reasoning 
below.
Barclays needed to make sure they didnt lend to Ms D irresponsibly. This means Barclays 
needed to carry out proportionate checks so that they could understand whether Ms D could 
afford to repay the loans. Our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending is on our website, and Ive used this approach to help me decide a fair and 
reasonable outcome for Ms Ds complaint. 
Loans one, two and three
Ms D took out her first three loans between June and July 2011. Weve not been provided 
with information to show what checks were carried out by Barclays, but this isnt 
unreasonable given the time thats passed. However, Ive seen copies of Ms Ds bank 
statements and credit report that cover this period.
Having reviewed the information weve been provided; Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Barclays ought to have asked further questions about Ms Ds financial circumstances before 
approving these loans. I also havent seen enough to safely conclude these loans were 
unaffordable at that time when considering the credits paid into Ms Ds account each month. 
So, its for this reason, I cant uphold Ms Ds complaint for the loans between June and July 
2011.
Loan four
The fourth loan was approved in June 2013, after what looks like an automated credit check 
carried out by Barclays. Having considered the information gathered from this check, I cant 
see anything that ought to have triggered Barclays to have carried out additional checks. 
However, I have looked at what Barclays might have seen had they done so.
Ive looked at Ms Ds credit report, and while I can see she had two credit cards at the time, 
Ive not seen enough to suggest they ought to have been a reason not to approve this loan. 
Ive also looked at Ms Ds bank statements for the period of March to June 2013. Again, Ive 
not seen anything to safely conclude this loan was unaffordable for her circumstances at the 
time. 
Loan five
This final loan was approved in February 2015, and again, this happened following 
automated checks.
By this point, Ms D had taken several loans with Barclays, and at this time already had two 
other open loans with them. So, I consider this ought to have given Barclays a reason to 
carry out more thorough checks of Ms Ds financial circumstances  particularly given they 
were aware of issues shed had making repayments towards loan three in early 2014.
Had Barclays carried out additional checks, they would have seen Ms D had taken out a 
high-cost loan with a different business in December 2014. I think this ought to have made 
them consider if approving a further loan would be affordable  and whether Ms D would be 
able to sustain repayments without the need to borrow from elsewhere. Additional checks (of 
Ms Ds bank statements) also would have shown them her expenditure had increased since 
her previous loans  again bringing into question the suitability of approving a further loan for 
her.
Barclays is satisfied their checks were sufficient; and that loan five was suitable for Ms Ds 
needs. However, the evidence provided by both parties shows Ms D had gotten into a cycle 
of borrowing, which in turn suggested she needed to continue doing so to keep up with her 
repayments. This is further supported by the additional borrowing she took out while loan 
five was open.Given the above, Im of the opinion Barclays failure to carry out sufficient checks meant that 
it didnt act fairly and reasonably when it approved loan five. As Ms D paid interest, fees 
and/or charges on this loan that Barclays shouldnt have given to her, I consider Ms D has 
lost out due to Barclays mistake. As such, Barclays needs to do something to put things 
right.
In light of the above, Im upholding Ms Ds complaint, in part.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Ms Ds complaint.
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Refund all interest and charges Ms D paid on loan five.
Add 8% interest per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they were 
made by Ms D, to the date of settlement. *
Remove all adverse information regarding loan five, if any was recorded on Ms Ds 
credit file.
*If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Ms D how much theyve taken off. They should 
also give Ms D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman