DRN-2627766
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs B are unhappy that EUI Limited (EUI) declined a claim they made under their 
home insurance policy. In addition to this, Mr G and Mrs B feel the service they received 
from EUI was poor.
What happened
In early October 2020 Mr G and Mrs B noticed water damage to their bathroom and kitchen. 
So, they made a claim under their home insurance policy. 
EUI initially attended, as part of the home emergency cover Mr G and Mrs B had under their 
policy. The contractor that attended, under this element of the cover, completed a report of 
their visit. They said they had found severe water damage to a ceiling and floor at the 
property, and the sealant around the bath wasnt holding water. So, they replaced the 
sealant. In addition to this, the contractor noted that the mixer tap on the bath was leaking. 
But they couldnt replace the tap at this point, because the bath needing removing in order to 
gain sufficient access.
Because of the damage to their home, Mr G and Mrs B then pursued a claim through the 
building insurance element of their cover. EUI appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the 
loss. And the loss adjuster completed a video call with Mr G and Mrs B. The loss adjuster 
suspected that the cause of the leak was a problem with the sealant around the bath. So, 
they appointed a leak detection specialist to visit Mr G and Mrs Bs home and look into the 
cause of the leak.
The leak detection specialist visited and completed their report. This report noted that a 
water escape was found through the bath seals and grouting which is causing the water 
damage to the bathroom floor and ceiling and wall in the kitchen. The specialist also noted 
they had checked the pipework in the bathroom, including the waste, and all pipework was 
sound.
EUI considered the above information and declined Mr G and Mrs Bs claim. It said Mr G and 
Mrs Bs policy didnt cover them for damage caused by faulty or failed grout or sealant. 
Mr G and Mrs B didnt feel the decision to decline the claim was fair. They provided a report 
from a plumber they had come to look at the bathroom. This plumber said that there was a 
problem with the sealant, and water was leaking through it. They also noted that the bath tap 
leaked through holes in the bath.
EUI considered this information and maintained its decision to decline the claim. It reiterated 
that the sealant was the cause of the damage in this case and said that there shouldnt be 
any holes in the bath for the tap to leak through either. It again noted that Mr G and Mrs Bs 
policy didnt cover them for damage caused by problems with the sealant, or faulty 
design/workmanship. 
EUI did however say it could see that the levels of communication with Mr G and Mrs B 
hadnt been acceptable. It said Mr G and Mrs B should have been getting regular updates, in 
a timely fashion, but this hadnt happened. It offered Mr G and Mrs B compensation of £100 
to apologise for the impact this had. 
Because Mr G and Mrs B remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator reviewed this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
the reports provided into the damage at Mr G and Mrs Bs home showed the damage to the 
property was as a result of failed grout and sealant. And damage caused in this way was 
excluded under the insurance policy. Our investigator also acknowledged there had been 
some delays in the progression of the claim, and Mr G and Mrs B had needed to actively 
chase for their claim to move forward. But she felt the £100 already offered as compensation 
for this was fair and reasonable.
Mr G and Mrs B didnt agree. They said they felt the problem with the mixer tap in the bath 
was the main cause of the damage to their home  and they felt this had been ignored, 
despite it being noted in the reports on the damage. Mr G and Mrs B also said the situation 
had been very distressing.
Because Mr G and Mrs B didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr G and Mrs Bs insurance policy, to see what cover is provided to them 
under this. On doing so, I can see that Mr G and Mrs B do have cover for damage caused to 
their property by an escape of water. But that the policy makes it clear that if damage was 
caused by faulty, failed or inadequate grout or sealant it wasnt covered under the policy.
All parties accept there was an escape of water at the property. But, as above, what is 
disputed is whether the damage was as a result of a problem with the grout and sealant in 
the bathroom. When relying on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim, EUI needs to 
show its more likely than not that the exclusion applies. So in this case, EUI need to 
evidence that the damage was indeed caused by problems with the grout and sealant. And, 
so Ive needed to consider whether EUI has shown this to be the case.
Ive looked at the reports provided by the home emergency contractor, leak detection 
specialist, the loss adjuster and the plumber Mr G and Mrs B appointed to look at the 
problem. And, based on the information in these reports, Im satisfied EUI has shown that 
the damage to Mr G and Mrs Bs property was more likely than not caused by failed or faulty 
sealant and grout. So, I think it made a fair and reasonable decision to decline the claim.
All of the reports provided discuss a problem with the sealant around the bath. And Im 
persuaded by this explanation. I say this because four experts have all noted a problem with 
this, and detailed that the faulty sealant was allowing water to pass through it and damage 
the floorboards below the bath. This ultimately led to water damage in the kitchen too. A 
number of photos were provided alongside these reports, both by EUI and Mr G and Mrs Bs 
plumber. And these are consistent with the narrative provided in these reports, that say the 
sealant was the cause of the leak. They all show failed or faulty sealant.
Mr G and Mrs B have mentioned that the mixer tap in the bath was the main cause of the 
damage, as this was leaking. And I appreciate what they have said here. The leak detection specialist that attended Mr G and Mrs Bs property had a look at the pipes in the bathroom  
including those under the bath and noted there were no leaks there. 
But I do accept that some of the reports provided do reference problems with the tap. Mr G 
and Mrs Bs plumber says;
sealant line is the main issue to the bath appliance which leaks through everytime (sic) the 
bath is in use. Taps have been completely smothered in mastic. This report also says the 
bath tap leaks through and around holes in the bath.
And the home emergency report initially provided notes;
Found that tap for bath was leaking and sealant around bath was not holding water.
But EUI has noted that even if there was a leak on the tap, this wouldnt have caused any 
water damage, if there had not been holes in the bath  i.e. from the problem with grout and 
sealant. From the reports provided, and the photos within these, its clear the sealant around 
the tap has failed and this allowed water through, as well as the rest of the failed sealant did. 
As the failed sealant was therefore the most likely cause of the damage, Im satisfied EUIs 
decision to decline the claim, is in line with the terms of the policy, and is fair in the 
circumstances.
EUI has accepted there were issues with its handling of the claim. And I can also see this 
was the case. Mr G and Mrs B did have to keep chasing for their claim to be progressed. 
And, EUI were also slow to respond to the information Mr G and Mrs B provided from their 
plumber.
Ultimately EUI fairly declined the claim, but it could have done this more efficiently, and kept 
in more regular contact with Mr G and Mrs B as it was investigating this. EUI has offered 
£100 compensation to say sorry for the distress and inconvenience this caused. And, Im 
satisfied this is fair. I say this because I think it reasonably recognises the inconvenience of 
Mr G and Mrs B needing to chase the outcome of their claim. So, I think its fair for EUI to 
pay this to Mr G and Mrs B, but I dont require it to pay anything more.
I understand Mr G and Mrs B were sent a cheque for the £100, but they didnt cash this. If 
the cheque is now out of date, or Mr G and Mrs B no longer have it, EUI should arrange to 
reissue the payment. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that the £100 compensation EUI Limited has offered is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont require EUI Limited to pay anything further 
than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman