DRN-3348043
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with how NewDay Ltd dealt with him, when he contacted it to explain he
was in financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr V has explained that hes been experiencing financial difficulties. This meant he wasnt
able to maintain the contractual payments he had on a credit card he held with NewDay.
Because of this, Mr V wrote to NewDay on 30 July 2021, explaining he wasnt able to keep
up with his contractual payments any longer, and would need to set up a repayment plan
with it instead. In this letter Mr V offered to pay £1 a month towards the balance of the credit
card, for an indefinite period. And he provided NewDay with a completed income and
expenditure form, detailing his current financial commitments.
At this stage, Mr V also told NewDay that he would like all communication to be in writing.
However, Mr V has said he didnt get a written response. But instead there was information
within his online account with NewDay, that thanked him for speaking to it, and asked him to
give it a call. This concerned Mr V  because he hadnt spoken to NewDay at all. And he had
specified that he didnt want to.
In addition to this, Mr V was concerned that there was no comment on his suggested
repayment plan. So, he wrote to NewDay again, reiterating his offer. In response he said
NewDay, within his online account, said it had put a freeze on this account  but said nothing
more about the repayment plan he needed to set up. So, Mr V raised a complaint about the
matter.
Mr V later received a letter from NewDay, dated 1 September 2021, responding to his
concerns. It confirmed receiving Mr Vs request for a repayment plan of £1 a month. But it
said that Mr Vs communications didnt provide sufficient information about his financial
difficulties for it to set up a repayment plan. It needed to understand more. NewDay said it
had placed a hold on his account until 5 September 221 and noted that the customer care
team would give Mr V a call to discuss the situation. It also said if Mr V preferred to phone
them instead, he could call them himself.
NewDay has said it attempted to call Mr V on 6 September 2021 but was unsuccessful. So,
it again asked Mr V to call it, to discuss the way forward.
Mr V was dissatisfied with this. Hes highlighted to this service that he didnt want any
communications over the phone, but instead in writing, as he felt NewDay might apply
pressure to him about paying his credit card whilst on the phone. And he said that hed
provided NewDay with sufficient information, within his income and expenditure form, for it to
be able to set up a repayment plan.
Because Mr B remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to this service for an
independent review.
Following this, NewDay wrote to Mr V and explained his credit limit would be decreasing
based on his payments on the credit card being overdue. And, it sent Mr V a letter on 27
September 2021 noting it was able to offer some help to Mr V. My understanding being that
this was because the parties hadnt spoken about the next stages in dealing with Mr Vs
credit account.
NewDay said:
It had put a payment holiday in place for Mr V  which would end on 20 January
2022. This meant the contractual monthly payments until that time were £0. And Mr V 
wouldnt be able to use the card during this time
No fees or charges will be applied to the account during the payment holiday
It would contact Mr V towards the end of the payment holiday to understand his 
circumstances
That following the payment holiday Mr V would need to at least start paying his 
contractual monthly payments again, and would need to repay any overdue amounts 
immediately
It also highlighted that overdue payments would show on Mr Vs credit file and would 
continue to do so throughout the payment holiday.
On 2 December 2021, during this payment holiday, Mr V wrote to NewDay again. He
attached an updated income and expenditure form and noted that given the rise in the cost
of living, he now was £65.90 short of being able to afford his outgoings every month  let
alone pay any credit commitments. But he remained of the position that he would like a
repayment plan of £1 a month set up.
Our investigator considered this complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. They said that
NewDay needed to treat Mr V positively and sympathetically on learning of his financial
difficulties, and they felt NewDay had done this, but didnt have enough information to set up
a repayment plan, without talking to Mr V. So, they didnt think NewDay had acted unfairly in
this case.
Mr V didnt agree. He said the situation wasnt acceptable, given his financial circumstances,
and that he wasnt able to repay the loan. Mr V highlighted that he was at his wits end, and
he thought that NewDay were supposed to try and make affordable repayments
arrangements  which hadnt happened here.
Mr V also noted that:
He had the right to be dealt with in writing, rather than over the phone, and this hadnt 
happened
NewDay did have sufficient information on his circumstances, given the income and 
expenditure forms hed provided
The payment holiday put in place wasnt really a payment holiday, because he would 
owe large sums of money at the end of it
Because Mr V didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, detailing my thoughts. In this I said:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr V feels
strongly about the matter, and so this will come as a disappointment to him. But Ive
explained my reasons below.
Support with financial difficulties
As above, Mr V contacted NewDay in July 2021, to explain he was experiencing financial
difficulties, and so was struggling to repay what he owed to it. As Mr V had explained he was
struggling to pay, I would expect NewDay to act in line with the rules, guidelines and
standard industry practice when dealing with customers in financial difficulties.
The rules, which can be found in The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), explain that a
firm must treat customers in financial difficulties with forbearance and due consideration.
When acting with forbearance and due consideration I would expect a lender to make sure it
had a good understanding of the situation a consumer found themselves in, and make sure it
had considered all relevant options, before agreeing how best to support its consumer in
financial difficulties.
Often this will mean needing to discuss a situation with a consumer or requesting further
information from them. So, Ive thought about whether NewDay acted in line with this, and I
currently think it did.
NewDay has said the information Mr V provided within his letter of 30 July 2021, and the
income and expenditure form he provided, werent enough for it to make sure it acted in line
with the above duty. It has said it needed more information before it could decide how best
to support Mr V in his circumstances. And having looked at the letter and income and
expenditure form, I dont think NewDays approach was unfair at this stage  I think it did
need to know more, before it could put any agreement in place with Mr V.
The income and expenditure form shows that Mr V had 14 creditors, including NewDay 
with a total of £106,419.17 owed. The account with NewDay that Mr V was seeking a
payment plan for was a small part of this total debt  with Mr V owing NewDay £2,710.50 on
this account. And the form showing that with paying £0.12 to NewDay for this account Mr V
would only be left with a disposable income of £9.23 each month, which is low.
Mr V was proposing to pay more than the £0.12 the income and expenditure form noted. He
was proposing £1 a month, indefinitely. This meant leaving him with even fewer disposable 
funds - £8.35. And, on the capital of the debt alone, if Mr Vs suggested repayment plan was
put in place for an indefinite period, it would take him over 18 years to repay.
It isnt usual for lenders to put an agreement in place indefinitely, given that circumstances
can change. And given the level of debt Mr V had, the low disposable income, and the
amount of time it would take Mr V to pay back the debt, I think it was reasonable for NewDay
to ask to talk to Mr V and seek more information, before making any decisions about
repayment. So, Im minded to find that it didnt acted unfairly by not putting in place the
payment plan Mr V suggested, at least at this stage. Im satisfied it was acting in line with its
duty of forbearance and due consideration in waiting to talk to Mr V before making a
decision.
Ive also thought about what NewDay did in the meantime, whilst awaiting to speak to Mr V.
From looking at screenshots of NewDays internal systems I can see that on 6 August 2021,
on reviewing Mr Vs letter, it placed a hold on his account  so that collections activitiesdidnt start. I think this was fair for NewDay to do, so as not to increase any pressure on Mr
V, and allow Mr V and itself time to discuss the issue at hand.
I understand that after NewDay responded to Mr Vs complaint, it tried to give him a call to
discuss the matter. But this wasnt successful. So, I can see it again asked Mr V to give it a
ring to discuss the matter. I think this seems fair  as it would allow the parties to talk about
the situation, and for NewDay to explain, in light of that conversation, any further information
it needed before making a decision on how to support Mr V.
In addition to this, Im aware that NewDay sent Mr V a letter, on 27 September 2021, noting
it had provided him with a payment holiday. The payment holiday was from 25 September
2021 until 20 January 2021. I also think this treated Mr V fairly. It again recognised that
NewDay hadnt been able to talk to Mr V at that stage  and it provided some breathing
space for this to happen. And whilst NewDay hadnt been able to speak to Mr V on the
phone, the letter made it clear to Mr V what a payment holiday entailed, explaining that Mr V
wouldnt need to make any payments at all until the end of the payment holiday. And that all
interest and charges would be frozen until that time.
The letter sent to Mr V about this payment holiday did also highlight the date in which the
payment holiday was due to end  and what would happen at that stage. So, it made sure
Mr V knew what he needed to do next. And that Mr V was aware NewDay could discuss his
circumstances and any support needed then.
Mr Vs payment holiday has now ended. And NewDay has provided a copy of a letter it sent
to Mr V on 10 January 2021, highlighting it was due to end, and to contact it if he wouldnt be
able to make the relevant payments. Its my understanding that Mr V hasnt contacted
NewDay in respect of this. But, if he hasnt, he may wish to do so, so that the best next steps
for Mr V can be considered in terms of this debt.
In summary, Im currently satisfied that NewDay has acted fairly in seeking to speak to Mr V
further  before putting in place any repayment plan  including the one Mr V suggested in
July 2021. And so, I dont find it did anything wrong in this respect.
Method of communication
Mr V did clearly specify, in his communications, that he wanted all contact to be in writing.
He has told this service this was because he was concerned that NewDay would put
pressure on him to make payments that he couldnt. Ive thought carefully about what Mr V
has said here.
I do think that when NewDay sent letters asking Mr V to call it, it could have provided an
explanation around why this was needed. I think this may have reassured Mr V of the
purpose of the call. But ultimately, I dont currently think NewDay acted unreasonably in
asking Mr V to speak with it on the phone.
I cant see anything to suggest that NewDay was looking to apply pressure to Mr V, or had
given him that impression. Or that there was any specific circumstance that meant Mr V
wasnt contactable via phone. I think its most likely the case that NewDay were seeking to
efficiently discuss the situation with Mr V, to establish the best next step to take. And
although it could have explained the reason for wanting a call initially, it did explain its
intentions in response to Mr Vs complaint  within its letter of 1 September 2021. So, Im
satisfied there isnt anything further NewDay needs to do in this regard.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as that noted in my provisional decision. As 
above, I havent received any comment or evidence from either party, that changes my 
thoughts on the outcome of the case, or the reasoning around this outcome. As such, my 
final decision remains the same as noted in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about NewDay Ltd. 
So, I dont require it to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman