DRN-3009161
The complaint
Miss P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard, unfairly applied a
default to her credit card account.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on Miss Ps complaint on 26 July 2021. I planned on coming 
to a different outcome to our investigator and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with any additional information they wanted me to consider.
I have copied my provisional decision below  which also forms part of this final decision.
In April 2018, Miss P made a purchase for £2,800 using her Barclays credit card. On 4 June 
2018, the minimum payment of £69.53 was collected by direct debit.
Miss P cancelled the direct debit on the account and so a payment wasnt collected by the 
payment due date in July or August. Miss P then made a manual payment of £200 on 21 
August 2018.
After the August 2018 payment was made, no further payments were made towards the 
account balance, and Barclays subsequently defaulted the account on 28 March 2019.
Miss P doesnt think its fair that Barclays defaulted the account. Shes told us that she 
sent two emails, possibly three, to Barclays asking it to help her with her situation, but she 
didnt hear anything back. She says she had enough money to repay the arrears at the 
point the account defaulted, so she would have made a payment to clear the arrears had 
she known or been contacted as she asked.
Once Miss P found out about the default, she contacted Barclays by phone. The person 
she spoke to gave her incorrect information about the amount of the outstanding balance 
and told her that the default would be removed. When Miss P found that the default hadnt 
been removed from her credit report, she contacted Barclays again.
Barclays looked into things for Miss P, and it found that the default had been correctly 
applied to the account and so it wouldnt request for this to be removed. It also confirmed 
the correct outstanding balance. It agreed that the person Miss P ha viously had
given her wrong information and so offered her £50 to say sorry.
Miss P said the default has had severe consequences for her personal circumstances and 
she has given this service detailed information about a very difficult situation she has 
found herself in with a past relationship. She says this person was very controlling over 
her finances, and as a result, she didnt receive a lot of the letters Barclays said it had 
sent her.
She also says that she found it very difficult to contact Barclays about her situation, 
given that this person was often around.
Miss P says that after she left the relationship, she became homeless and was unable to 
find rental accommodation because of the default showing on a credit report. So, to resolve 
this complaint, Miss P would like the default removing from her credit file.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss P, but he didnt uphold her complaint. He 
thought that Barclays had fairly applied the default to her account because she hadnt 
made a payment since August 2018 up until the default was applied in March 2019. And he 
thought that the £50 Barclays had offered her for the misinformation during the phone call 
in March 2020 was fair.
Miss P didnt agree and made a number of points:
The direct debit was initially cancelled because she was in financial difficulty. The 
direct debit wasnt ever reinstated as this could only be done by Barclays. No 
further direct debit instructions were cancelled.
Miss P says she has sent in evidence to show that she could afford to make a 
payment in January and February 2019. And that she could have repaid the 
balance of £485.85 on 27 March 2019  before the account defaulted.
Miss P says she couldnt make a payment to Barclays for a number of reasons. 
She said that she had short lunch breaks of 30 minutes. So she couldnt wait in a 
queue for her call to be answered (she says she had tried to call on a number of 
occasions but had waited too long) and the nearest branch was around four miles 
away so she couldnt go there and pay. Miss P says she couldnt make the 
payment online because she didnt know her reference number or what bank 
details shed need to make the payment to.
Because Miss P didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, it is my current decision to uphold Miss Ps complaint in part 
 and I think Barclays should pay more compensation to Miss P. But at the moment, Im not 
going to ask Barclays to remove the default from her credit file. And Ill explain my reasons 
for this below.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Miss Ps situation. Its clear shes been through a 
very difficult time, and I can understand why the outcome of this complaint is so important to 
her. In reaching my conclusion, I dont wish in any way to downplay or disregard the 
situation Miss P has found herself in. Ive no doubt it was truly horrible to have been through 
what she has. And Im sure the fact that she now has a default showing on her credit file 
has only made an already bad situation worse.
But being independent means, I must take a step back and consider what both 
parties have said. And I must look to see if Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably 
when dealing with Miss P.
Its worth noting what the ICO (Information Commissioners Office) says about when a 
default should be registered. It says that a default should be registered when a consumer 
is at least three months behind with their payments. And it would expect a default to be 
registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments.Looking at what has happened in this case, I can see that the last payment Miss P made to 
the account was in August 2018. After this, she didnt make any more payments. Barclays 
sent Miss P letters about the arrears to ask that Miss P bring the account up to date. Miss 
P didnt bring the account up to date, and so Barclays sent her a Notice of Default. This 
letter asked Miss P to bring the account up to date, and if she didnt do this it may apply a 
default to her account. Miss P didnt bring the account up to date and so a default was 
registered on 28 March 2019. So, on the face of things, I dont think Barclays did anything 
wrong in applying the default when it did.
Miss P says that she often didnt receive letters as these were intercepted by her 
previous partner. So, Ive taken into account that Miss P might not have been aware that 
Barclays was going to apply a default to her account if she didnt bring it up to date. I can 
appreciate this must have been a very difficult situation for Miss P  and its something 
Ive thought about very carefully. But I dont think Miss P not receiving or being able to 
read communication means that Barclays did something wrong or treated her unfairly  
and I think Miss P likely knew about the position of her account, even if she hadnt seen 
the letters.
Ive seen a copy of an email Miss P says she sent to Barclays on 10 January 2019. The 
email acknowledges that she had missed payments and asks that Barclays contacts her 
and help her with a repayment plan and freezing interest. This suggests to me that Miss P 
was aware that shed missed a number of payments, and that she knew she had arrears on 
the account.
Barclays didnt respond to this email. It says it didnt receive it  and its done a search of 
its archives which shows it wasnt received. But Miss P has forwarded a copy of the email 
(and another one she sent in February 2019) she sent to Barclays, to a valid email 
address, so I find it more likely that this email was received, but just not responded to.
Miss P later spoke to someone at Barclays on 23 January 2019. During the call, Miss P 
said that she would make a payment the following Friday (25 January 2019) for £100. The 
representative said that they would place the account on hold for a month while she 
contacted a debt charity, and that she wouldnt be charged interest during this time. The 
representative also said that Miss P needed to call back within the month. The 
representative let Miss P know that the account may default if she missed six payments.
Barclays didnt receive the payment Miss P says she was going to make on 25 January 2019
 or any other payments after that.
Miss P says she sent Barclays an email on 15 February 2019, again Barclays says it didnt 
receive this. The email says that Miss P had been trying to get in touch on the phone, but 
the queue wait was very long. The email said that she was in difficulty and needed to set up 
a repayment plan and that she could pay £100. The email requested that someone from 
Barclays call her.
Barclays also says it didnt get this email, and even if it did, it wouldnt have contacted 
Miss P because it came from a different email address from the one that was registered 
to the account. And it would be outside of its security processes to respond to this or 
contact her on the number shed provided.
Ive thought about all of this extra information very carefully. Its clear to me that Miss P 
was aware that the account was in arrears. During the call in January 2019, Miss P 
acknowledged that the last payment shed made was in August 2018, and she was told 
during that call that the account would default after six missed payments  by this point, she was five months behind on her repayments. Miss P said shed make a payment a 
couple of days later but didnt do this.
I think Miss P would have been aware during the call that the account was close to 
defaulting - even if she hadnt had sight of the letter Barclays had sent to her. While I 
appreciate Miss P sent Barclays an email in February 2019 asking it to contact her, and it 
didnt respond, there still doesnt appear to have been much attempt by Miss P again after 
this date to make a payment. While I appreciate that Miss P says she didnt have the 
details to make the payment online and her closest branch was too far away, she could 
have tried to call Barclays again, but Barclays has sent information to show she didnt do 
this until after the account defaulted. I cant hold Barclays responsible for the payment not 
being made by Miss P.
Even if Barclays had contacted Miss P after it received her email in February 2019, and 
Miss P had made a payment of £100, I still find it likely Barclays would have defaulted the 
account. When Miss P missed her payment that was due in February 2019, she was 
already six months behind on her repayments. And the payment Miss P says she intended 
to make of £100 wouldnt have cleared the outstanding arrears on the account anyway. So 
I think her account was sufficiently behind on repayments that it would likely have defaulted 
regardless.
Miss P has sent this service information to show that she had enough money to clear the 
arrears on the account the day before the default was applied. But I cant be certain that 
Miss P would have used these funds to clear the Barclays arrears. She might have had 
other more important bills to pay with it. In any event, if Miss P had the money available, 
then she still had the option of using it to pay off the arrears  after all, she was aware from 
the conversation she had with the representative in January 2019 how much the arrears 
were.
But she didnt do this  and didnt make any payment at all. So I cant be certain, that in 
reality, Miss P would have brought the account up to date even if she did know it was 
going to default.
A default will likely have an impact on a persons ability to obtain new credit, so its possible 
that Miss Ps rental application was affected by this. But a business, like Barclays, has the 
responsibility to report accurate information about how someone has managed their 
account. Given what Ive already said about Miss P not making payments to the account, I 
think it was fair that Barclays registered the default against her.
Based on everything Ive seen so far, I wont be asking Barclays to remove the default 
from Miss Ps credit file.
Ive also thought about some of the customer service issues Miss P experienced with 
Barclays. While Barclays has acknowledged it gave Miss P some wrong information during 
a phone call after the default had already been registered, and it agreed to pay her £50 to 
say sorry, I dont currently think this is enough.
Firstly, Miss P has shown this service that she sent at least two emails to Barclays that 
she says it didnt respond to. Barclays say it didnt receive these. But Ive seen that they 
were sent to a valid Barclays email address, so I dont see any reason why they wouldnt 
have been received.
Barclays has said that even if it got the emails then it wouldnt have contacted Miss P on a 
number that wasnt already attached to the account, as she had requested. But I think 
Barclays could have done more here. Looking at the email Miss P sent to Barclays in January 2019, Miss P has stated in the email that her situation is difficult and sensitive, 
and specifically asked not to be called on the number that was attached to the account. 
While I appreciate that Barclays may not have known about Miss Ps situation, I think that 
from the way the email is written, there is enough information suggest that Miss P might be 
in difficulty. This particular email includes enough personal information about Miss P for 
Barclays to have been able to locate her account  and so it could have called her and 
completed telephone security in order to check it was speaking to the right person before 
discussing the account.
The second email Miss P sent in February 2019 includes very little information about her. 
Theres nothing in the email that Barclays is likely to have been able to use to locate Miss 
Ps account. For example, her full name isnt included, no address, no date of birth and 
the email was sent from a different email address to the one that was registered to the 
account. So I can understand why, if Barclays did receive the email, that it wouldnt have 
contacted Miss P.
Theres also the issue with incorrect information being given to Miss P on the phone about 
the default being removed and the outstanding balance. I can understand why Miss P was 
so upset to find out that this information was wrong. She wanted the default removing as 
she was homeless at the time and needed to secure some rental accommodation. So, by 
Barclays incorrectly telling her it would remove the default, gave her false hope about her 
living situation and didnt give her the opportunity to seek other avenues for 
accommodation.
Its understandable that this would have been a very stressful and distressing time for Miss P
 and not helped by Barclays mis-managing her expectations. While I agree with Barclays 
decision to not remove the default, I dont agree that it handled the situation appropriately.
Given what Ive said about the customer service issues Miss P has encountered, I currently 
think that Barclays should increase its offer  which is £250 in total including the £50 it has 
already offered her.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add and 
agreed to pay Miss P the additional £200.
Miss P responded to say that she was looking for an email that shed sent to Barclays from 
an old email address and asked for more time to respond with this information  but she 
didnt respond with this by the deadline we gave her. She also said that if shed received the 
support from Barclays, and if someone had contacted her, then she would have been able to 
clear the arrears on the account and so the account wouldnt have defaulted. Miss P 
reiterated the impact the default has had on her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my decision to uphold Miss Ps complaint  for much of the same 
reasons outlined in my provisional decision. 
Id like to thank Miss P for taking the time to respond to the provisional decision. But the 
points she has made in response, were points that I had already considered when deciding 
on a fair outcome to this complaint. And Ive explained in my provisional decision why I think 
the default was applied fairly. Because neither party has provided me with any new information to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision that Ive copied above. 
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Miss P £200 for the trouble and upset caused to her.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to uphold Miss Ps complaint. I order 
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard, to put things right for Miss P by doing what 
Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman