DRN-2182804
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) wont carry
out permanent repairs following two claims under their home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs K suffered a loss of electricity in the extension at their home.
They contacted Great Lakes to make a claim under their home emergency cover. An
engineer attended, disconnected a socket and left the remainder in operation.
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs K suffered a further loss of power and again contacted
Great Lakes to make a claim. Another engineer attended, disconnected the circuit and said
further investigation into the cause of the issue was required.
But Great Lakes said they were unable to provide any more assistance as tracing the fault
was needed, and as this and permanent repairs arent covered under the policy,
Mr and Mrs K would need to claim under their buildings insurance policy. Mr and Mrs K tried
to do this, but the claim wasnt accepted.
Mr and Mrs K feel that Great Lakes are responsible for the second breakdown, so say they
should carry out the tracing and full repairs that are required.
Great Lakes didnt agree. They said they would pay Mr and Mrs K the remainder of the £500
policy limit and £50 towards extension cables as a gesture of goodwill, but wouldnt pay for
tracing the problem, or carrying out a permanent repair. As Mr and Mrs K remained
unhappy, they approached the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into everything. She said that Great Lakes had acted in line with the
terms of the policy when they visited as they carried out a safe temporary repair, which was
all they were required to do. But she said a file note said the previous engineer had caused
the second breakdown, so she said that Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs K £200
compensation  which Great Lakes agreed with.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. They said £200 wasnt enough to pay for a permanent repair, and
this amount should be higher. So they asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional 
decision before I made my final decision. This allowed both parties to comment on my 
thinking, before I make my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman Services last 
word on the case.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs K, but Ive provisionally
reached a different outcome to our investigator and Im not minded to say 
Great Lakes should do anything further. I appreciate Great Lakes had agreed to pay 
the investigators recommended amount. But for me to direct Great Lakes to pay 
compensation (or carry out tracing and repairs), Id need to be satisfied theyd 
caused the problem Mr and Mrs K now have. But I dont think its been shown at this 
stage that they did. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ks policy covers them (with a £500 policy limit) for an engineer to attend 
in an emergency, to carry out temporary repairs. The policy doesnt cover gaining 
access to find faults. And it only covers carrying out permanent repairs, if they can be 
completed on a first visit, and cost less than temporary repairs.
I understand that when the first electrical failure occurred, the engineer disconnected 
a socket and restored power. So, I think Great Lakes fulfilled their obligations under 
the policy here. And I also note that the second breakdown didnt happen until ten 
months later.
When the second failure occurred, the engineer disconnected the circuit following 
testing of the insulation resistance, because it didnt comply with regulations. They 
said further investigation was required, section by section, to find the cause of the 
issue. Again, I think they fulfilled the obligations under the policy here too, as they 
made the circuit safe by completing temporary work to disconnect it.
And since then, some further temporary work was carried out so Mr and Mrs K could 
have electricity, albeit via one socket using extension leads as a temporary measure.
Our investigator said Great Lakes had carried out its responsibilities on each 
occasion. And I agree with this as mentioned. The policy requires temporary repair to 
resolve an emergency situation and doesnt cover permanent repairs unless they can 
be completed on the first visit for less than the temporary repair.
But Mr and Mrs K believe that the second breakdown only occurred because the first 
wasnt completed correctly. And our investigator reached a similar view, based on a 
file note. So she recommended £200 compensation.
I understand this will disappoint Mr and Mrs K. But I dont agree that there is 
sufficient evidence to show Great Lakes caused the second breakdown, or to 
connect the two. So I dont think Great Lakes should carry out tracing, repairs, or pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs K. Ill explain why.
The full context around the file note was Great Lakes asking the engineer about the 
previous works, and asking whether the findings of the report generally, could stem 
from the minor works ten months prior.
Following this, Great Lakes asked for further clarification from the engineer, who 
said:
The issues with the 2 radials is an old fault and after the original electrician 
disconnected it, it had been working all though (sic) it had not been protected in the 
correct way. There is now another fault somewhere...
And when questioned whether they identified the works carried out by the previous 
engineer, they said:This extension was built about 3 years ago and has a dedicated ring circuit but Ph 
had a problem with that circuit about 2 years ago and previous electrician 
disconnected some cables inside the socket, leaving two radial circuits.
And the second engineer described what they did following the second breakdown:
During the visit he opened a few more sockets to trace the fault but was unable to 
trace because the fault could be inside the wall or under the concrete floor or 
between the ceiling. He tested insulation resistance 0.01Mohm (which is a danger 
compared to regulations). So therefore he disconnected the circuit for the extension 
socket inside the consumer unit.
So theyve identified the previous works carried out and said what they were, rather 
than saying those works caused the second breakdown. This is further highlighted by 
them saying there is another fault somewhere, and that they were unable to trace as 
it could be inside the wall, under the floor or in the ceiling. So they havent made a 
connection between the first repair and the second breakdown.
Mr and Mrs K have also said that if the first engineer had said that mice could have 
been getting into the electrics then they could have done something sooner, such as 
putting up mesh or covering airbricks, which they did when a pest controller attended 
shortly after the second electrical breakdown.
But it hasnt been shown that this was the original cause of the first breakdown. So I 
dont think its unreasonable if the first engineer didnt mention this. I also dont think 
its been shown that this caused the second breakdown either, as mentioned above 
in the notes, the source still hasnt actually been confirmed as a trace is needed, 
which isnt covered under the policy.
So based on the above, I cant conclude the second breakdown was only due to the 
first not being correctly completed, or the lack of advice the first engineer gave. 
Therefore I cant fairly direct Great Lakes to compensate Mr and Mrs K (or carry out 
tracing or permanent repairs) if Im unable to conclude they are responsible for the 
issue(s) that have arisen.
However, I do agree the information implies the wrong fuse was used by the first 
engineer. But fortunately, this hasnt caused any known issues. Albeit as mentioned, 
it is unknown what actually did cause the second breakdown, as the policy doesnt 
cover tracing, and this is needed to find the fault.
But I also note that Great Lakes has offered to pay Mr and Mrs K the remainder of 
the unused £500 policy limit towards tracing and repairs, along with £50 for extension 
leads as a gesture of goodwill. This isnt something under the policy theyre required 
to do, and I think this is reasonable for the distress in discovering the wrong fuse had 
been used, and because Mr and Mrs K had to contact Great Lakes several times for 
updates. So Im not minded to ask them to do any more.
On that basis, I was minded to say that Great Lakes didnt need to do any more than they 
had already offered, paying the remainder of the £500 policy limit, along with £50 for 
extension leads.
The responses to my provisional decisionGreat Lakes responded saying they agreed with the provisional decision and had no further 
comments to add.
Mr and Mrs K responded, but they didnt agree. They said the first repair wasnt carried out 
in a safe way as it didnt comply with regulations, so they would have expected some 
compensation for this.
They also said that the pest controller couldnt find any signs of mice droppings, but that 
doesnt mean a rodent wasnt involved. Mr and Mrs K further said that given the breaks in 
the circuit in multiple places, its likely its consistent with a rodent getting in. Additionally Mr 
and Mrs K also think that even if there was no evidence of a rodent entering, it was a 
possibility, so the engineer should have suggested this was a possibility at the first visit.
Mr and Mrs K have also asked what the outcome would be if they carried out tracing and did 
find signs of rodents causing damage. They queried who would need to evidence this, an 
electrician or pest controller.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, I havent changed my mind.
I agree that based on the information provided, the first repair didnt comply with regulations, 
as it was noted the wrong fuse was used. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs K have said they think some compensation should be awarded for this, as 
I noted in my provisional decision, Great Lakes has offered to pay the remainder of the £500 
policy limit, and £50 towards extension cables. This isnt something required under the 
policy, and I think thats reasonable for the distress in discovering the wrong fused had been 
used, and for the service Mr and Mrs K received. So Im not going to say Great Lakes should 
pay more than this.
Mr and Mrs K have said that the pest controller was unable to find signs of rodent droppings. 
But given there were breaks in the circuits, Mr and Mrs K say its likely this was the cause. I 
agree with Mr and Mrs K that this could be a cause, but there could also have been many 
other causes. But tracing isnt covered under Mr and Mrs Ks policy, and the cause still 
hasnt been identified.
And its on this same basis that I dont think the first engineer acted unreasonably in not 
telling Mr and Mrs K it could be rodents, as again, there could have been many different 
causes of the breakdown  which still hasnt been concluded as tracing isnt covered under 
the policy.
For me to say Great Lakes caused the second breakdown and therefore needs to carry out 
permanent repairs, Id need to be able to conclude that the first engineer was responsible for 
this. But I think theyve met their obligations under the policy on both visits by carrying out a 
temporary repair to resolve the emergency situation. And as outlined in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons, Im unable to connect the two breakdowns. So Im not 
going to say Great Lakes are responsible for the permanent repair.
Mr and Mrs K have questioned what would happen if they carried out tracing and find 
rodents were the cause of the problem, and who they would need to get to carry this out.But Im unable to say whether that would change things as that would be new information 
that Mr and Mrs K would need to send to Great Lakes for consideration first. And if they are 
unhappy with whatever decision is ultimately reached by Great Lakes, then they may be able 
to bring this as a new complaint to this service. But Im unable to guide Mr and Mrs K on who 
should carry this out, or what they would need to show in order to evidence Great Lakes is 
responsible for the second breakdown.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above and in my provisional decision, Great Lakes Insurance SE 
has already made an offer to pay the remainder of the £500 policy limit, and £50 towards 
extension leads to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should pay what it has already offered to 
Mr and Mrs K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman