DRN-3174454
The complaint
Miss P complains that Vitality Health Limited charged her for treatment under her private 
medical health insurance.
 What happened
Miss P had private medical insurance with Vitality. The policy was on a on full medical 
underwriting basis with exclusions with an excess of £100 per person each policy year.
In 2020 Miss P made an on-line claim for physiotherapy. Vitality passed the request to its 
physiotherapy partner to manage the claim and 12 sessions were authorised. Miss P was 
told that due to Covid-19 restrictions face to face sessions werent available, only virtual 
sessions, which she booked.
Miss P complains that she was invoiced for the two sessions, one priced at £35 and one at 
£20. She says she was shocked to get an invoice as Vitality or the provider hadnt 
mentioned shed be charged for the virtual sessions and shed assumed as the face to face 
sessions werent available the virtual sessions were an interim measure. Miss P says if 
Vitality had told her shed be charged she wouldnt have had the virtual sessions which didnt 
help her pain. She said she understood there was a policy excess which shed be happy to 
pay when she understood the treatment was going to be charged. She wants Vitality to 
cancel the charges.
Vitality said Miss P had been given general information about costs and the policy 
documents were clear that the excess applied to a claim so Miss P needed to pay for the 
treatment she had. Miss P said the policy wording about what Vitality would pay for 
physiotherapy was ambiguous.
Our investigator said Vitality fairly charged for treatment and applied the excess.
Miss P disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said the policy didnt mention 
there was a charge for virtual physiotherapy sessions and she had no reason to think there 
was a charge. She asked us for the evidence Vitality had provided to us, which we sent. We 
gave Miss P a time extension to provide any further comments but she said she hadnt had 
the chance to look at the information and accepted the complaint would go to ombudsmans 
decision with the comments shed already made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think weve given Miss P reasonable time to provide further comments and that its fair to 
make my decision on the information I have. I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says under the welcome section at page 6:
YOUR CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE
It is especially important that you always refer to your certificate of insurance before 
making a claim as this shows which cover options you have, what limits if any apply, 
any excess thats payable and how it is paid.
The policy says under your healthcare explained section at page 10:
Subject to any limits that apply, we will pay for eligible treatment costs after taking off 
any excess that may apply under the plan.
The policy says under the same section heading at page 11:
WHAT WE MEAN BY FULL COVER
Wherever we say full cover in your certificate of insurance we mean all of your 
eligible costs will be covered in full (unless any excess applies) 
The policy says at page 22 under the heading  important information about your cover:
1.2 EXCESSES

If you have a 'per person per plan year' excess we will deduct the excess from the 
first invoice for treatment taking place in the plan year and the next invoice if any 
excess still remains. 
You will then need to pay the excess amount to the relevant person, hospital or other 
facility that provided your treatment.
That section also gives information about how the excess works where limits apply to 
treatment costs.
Miss Ps policy schedule shows there is a £100 excess payable per person per plan year 
and that the outpatient cover benefit level is:
Up to £500 cover for out-patient consultations, consultant fees and out-of network 
physiotherapy (max. £35 per session) when needed as part of treatment.
Full cover for in-network physiotherapy.
Miss P has referred to the following policy wording at page 16 under the out-patient cover 
what is covered section:
Out-patient physiotherapy
We have agreed tariffs in place with a select panel of physiotherapists across the 
country. Providing you contact us so we can arrange for you to see a physiotherapist 
on our panel, well cover each physiotherapy session in full, it wont be subject to any 
limits on your Out-patient Cover and well pay the provider direct. It is not necessary 
to obtain a referral from a GP if you follow this process.
Physiotherapy arranged by your consultant following surgery will also be covered in 
full and will not be subject to any limits on your Out-patient Cover.If you arrange your own physiotherapy then well only pay a set amount per session, 
it will be subject to any limits on your Out-patient Cover and youll have to pay the 
provider direct yourself including making up any shortfall. You can find more details 
of the claims process, and the amounts well pay if you go out of network, by logging 
on to the Member Zone.
Miss P says that wording states Vitality have tariffs agreed with a group of physiotherapists, 
which she wasnt told about, and if she used these services Vitality will cover in full, which it 
didnt. But I dont think Miss P can reasonably read that paragraph of the policy in isolation 
from the rest of the policy where its clear that full cover means eligible costs will be covered 
in full less the excess.
Miss P says neither Vitality or its physiotherapy provider told her there would be a cost for 
the virtual physiotherapy sessions and she assumed they would be free. But I dont think 
there was any basis for Miss P to reasonably think the physiotherapist would be providing 
the sessions for free. It would be usual for treatment claimed for under the policy to come 
with a cost. The cost would be covered by the policy subject to the policy terms and with the 
excess being payable. I think its clear from the policy wording under the Out-patient 
physiotherapy section at page 16 of the policy that physiotherapy treatment would be 
charged. Also, the evidence from Vitality is that Miss P was given information about costs 
and excess when she claimed on-line.
Miss P says neither Vitality nor its provider told her the specific cost of the treatment or there 
would be different charges when there was no difference between the two sessions. But the 
provider has now emailed Miss P to say the session charged at £20 was incorrectly charged 
and should have been £35 and it had written off the invoice of £20 as a goodwill gesture. So 
both sessions should have been charged at £35 which was in line with the maximum session 
cost referred to in the policy documentation and information given when Miss P submitted 
her claim on-line.
Miss P says the sessions didnt help her pain but I dont think thats a reason for there to be 
no charge for the sessions or for Vitality to waive the excess. Overall I think Vitality acted 
fairly in providing treatment under the policy for which Miss P was charged and in applying 
the policy excess.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman