DRN-3642046
The complaint
Mr S complains that a courtesy car supplied to him by Motability Operations Limited 
(Motability) hadnt been cleaned properly. 
What happened
Mr S had an agreement with Motability to supply him with a car.
In November 2021 the car broke down, so Motability arranged for a replacement car to be 
provided by a car hire company. Ill refer to the car hire company as E. 
Mr S says the replacement car wasnt up to standard. He says it hadnt been cleaned 
properly - and that there was chewing gum underneath the base of the steering wheel. Mr S 
complained about this to E. He also complained to Motability, who agreed to look into what 
had happened. 
Motability said E had confirmed the car was cleaned before it was delivered to Mr S. But 
they said E had acknowledged the concerns Mr S had raised and provided feedback to their 
branch. Motability said they felt Es response was fair and reasonable, so they wouldnt take 
any further action.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Motabilitys response. He said hed provided evidence showing the 
car was dirty, which proved Es claim that it had been cleaned wasnt true. He asked one of 
our investigators to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator said she was satisfied that, if errors were made, apologies had been offered 
to Mr S and feedback had been given to the hire car company. She felt that was sufficient, 
and that Motability didnt need to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
Mr S disagreed. He said hed provided evidence of the car being in a dirty state and an 
admission from the hire company that parts had been missed. He felt our investigator hadnt 
looked at the way in which Motability accepted the hire car companys response to the 
concerns hed raised. 
The case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S feels very strongly that the replacement car he was given hadnt been 
cleaned properly. Motability have explained that they didnt supply this hire car themselves  
they arranged for it to be provided by E. 
I havent seen any pictures showing the condition of the car when it was supplied to Mr S. 
But Ive seen a copy of Es response to his complaint about this. Although E said pre-rental 
checks had been carried out, they went on to say: It is clear from the image you have kindly 
supplied, areas of the vehicle were missed. 
Given that E has acknowledged some areas of the car appear to have been missed in their 
pre-rental checks, I think it most likely that an error was made here. 
I can appreciate that it would be upsetting for Mr S to find chewing gum under the base of 
the steering wheel. But Ive seen that he received apologies for the car not being in the 
condition he expected and any inconvenience this caused him. I havent seen anything to 
suggest Mr S raised any other concerns about the suitability of this car for his needs. So, I 
think an apology was enough here. 
I realise Mr S is unhappy that we havent looked at the way in which Motability accepted Es 
response to the issues hed raised. He feels something should be done about the way 
Motability deal with third-party providers who fall short in their contractual obligations.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt here to regulate the relationship between Motability 
and their network of third-party providers. Thats not something we can do. So, I wont be 
commenting on the way in which Motability investigated Mr Ss complaint about E. 
Our role is to look at the impact any error had on Mr S and consider whether Motability 
should do more to put that right. And in this case, Im not persuaded that Motability need to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman