DRN-3666593
The complaint
Ms J complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) took too long to 
consider her claim and didnt treat her fairly. She thought her claim was unfairly declined 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms J made a claim on her policy after she returned home to find her dog had knocked over a 
tin of paint and walked paw prints throughout her property, damaging her sofa and carpet in 
several rooms.
Admiral appointed an independent expert to review the claim and damage. The expert didnt 
think the damage was consistent with the circumstances Ms J had explained when making 
her claim. The expert also thought the carpet was in a poor pre-loss condition with signs of 
existing pet damage so wouldnt have been covered under the policy. Ms J wasnt happy 
with the outcome, so Admiral appointed a different contractor who was also an expert in 
assessing claim damage. The second expert provided a similar assessment to the first 
expert.
Based on the experts reports, Admiral decided to decline the claim as it didnt think it was 
covered by the policy. Ms J was unhappy with the time it took for Admiral to decline the claim 
and thought her integrity had been questioned during the process.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Admiral had followed a 
reasonable process in its investigation of the claim and thought the timescales werent 
unreasonable. He thought Admiral were fair to decline the claim based upon the evidence of 
the experts and hadnt seen any contradictory expert evidence put forward. Ms J disagreed, 
so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Js claim was declined in principal for two reasons  
it didnt think the circumstances presented when the claim was made were consistent 
with evidence its experts found when they investigated the claim, and
it thought the carpet was in a poor pre-loss condition damaged by pets, so wouldnt 
be covered by the policy.
I have looked at whether I think Admiral has been fair in its approach and in reaching its 
conclusions. Its normal for an insurer to appoint an expert to review the damage and 
validate a claim. When Ms J was unhappy with the experts findings Admiral arranged for a 
second opinion from a different expert. I think this is a reasonable approach in the 
circumstances. Ms J wasnt happy with how long this process took. However, I have 
reviewed the timeline of the claim and the validation took just over a month  I dont think 
this is unreasonable and is consistent with what I wouldve expected, especially given the 
need for Admiral to seek a second opinion.
I have reviewed the reports provided by the experts. Both experts concluded that the 
damage they observed wasnt consistent with the circumstances Ms J explained when she 
made her claim. The first expert said the damage was described as the pets have walked 
through the paint, however on review of this damage you would expect that as the animal 
had walked through the rooms the paw prints would have gotten lighter, due to paint coming 
off onto the carpet. This doesnt seem evident, and the paw prints are quite dominant 
throughout the rooms. The second expert concluded having viewed the photos submitted 
by the home furnishing specialists, at present we cant be satisfied that the damage was an 
accident caused by the pet. I have reviewed the photographs provided and the paint 
deposits are significant throughout the house. I think the experts reasoning is sound that 
youd expect footprints to diminish as the paint would quickly reduce on the pets paws as it 
was transferred to the carpet. So you wouldnt expect the paint deposits to be so dominant in 
all the rooms. I find this report persuasive.
Its normal for insurers to base their decisions on reports provided by experts. I think Admiral 
has been reasonable to use the reports in making its decision. So, as the circumstances of 
the claim havent been proven, I think Admiral have been fair in declining the claim. Admiral 
has been reasonable in saying it would consider evidence provided by Ms J if she chose to 
commission her own expert to report on the circumstances. I appreciate Ms J was unhappy 
she never received a response in relation to her sofa, but I think Admiral have been thorough 
in explaining that it doesnt think the circumstances of the claim are consistent with the 
evidence. Therefore, I think it reasonably follows that Admiral wouldnt cover the damage to 
the sofa for the same reason it has set out for the carpets.
Admiral said, we must also advise that the flooring specialists have confirmed there is 
evidence of pre-incident pet damage and wearing to all carpets, such damage which would 
not fall for consideration under the terms and conditions of your insurance policy. I have 
checked the policy and it doesnt cover damage caused by pets, through chewing, 
scratching, tearing, fouling or vomiting. Therefore, as the experts said the pre-loss condition 
of the carpet showed evidence of damage caused by pets, Admiral arent liable to cover the 
damaged carpet under the policy. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ms J said she didnt think she was treated fairly and her integrity was questioned. I havent 
seen any evidence that Admiral has treated Ms J differently to how it wouldve treated any 
other customer in similar circumstances. I think Admiral has validated the claim fairly and 
sought a second opinion to ensure it had reliable information to base its conclusions on. Its 
offered Ms J the opportunity to provide her own expert evidence to disprove what has been 
said. 
Ms J suggests she didnt know of this opportunity. However, Admirals final response says 
whilst I appreciate you mentioned during the call with our [team] that your friend has stated 
the claim circumstances are true, we would need evidence to support this from them to 
confirm as well as a cause of damage report. So, I think Ms J was made aware that she 
would need to provide a cause of damage report as evidence and her friends testimony. As 
I havent seen any contrary evidence to what Admiral has provided, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman