DRN-3472363
The complaint
Mr F complains that the Post Office Ltd wont refund the value of an expired a postal order. 
What happened
In April 2020 Mr F purchased a postal order for £55 from the Post Office. Mr F made the 
postal order payable to a third-party. Due to the Covid pandemic the postal order was never 
cashed by the third-party and it was ultimately returned to Mr F in August 2021.
Mr F asked the Post Office to refund the value of the postal order to him. But it said that 
postal orders need to be cashed within six months of the date of issue or they expire. 
Unhappy, Mr F complained to the Post Office saying that he wasnt made aware that postal 
orders expire after six months.
The Post Office looked into the complaint, but it didnt accept making a mistake as the expiry 
terms are detailed on the reverse side of the postal order. It said it will allow a postal order to 
be cashed/refunded at its discretion up to a further six months. But as more than 12 months 
had passed since Mr F purchased his postal order, it didnt agree a refund on this occasion. 
However, it later said it was prepared to consider the matter further if Mr F provided 
evidence that the postal order had only recently been returned to him. But Mr F no longer 
had this information, so no refund was given. 
Mr F was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened. But she didnt think the Post Office had done 
anything wrong. She thought the terms of a postal order were clear - both on the reverse of 
the postal order and on the Post Offices website. And because Mr F hadnt been unable to 
provide evidence that the postal order had only been returned to him in August 2021, she 
didnt think the Post Office needed to do anything more. 
Mr F remained unhappy. He said  in summary, his complaint was less about why the postal 
order was uncashed and was more about the obligation of the Post Office (as the seller of a 
financial product), to tell him about the expiry date of the postal order before he purchased it. 
He added that the terms and conditions being displayed on a website was irrelevant. The 
investigator considered this but didnt change her view on the complaint. 
As Mr F disagreed, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr F that I have read everything hes submitted. If I havent mentioned 
something, or answered a particular question raised by him, its not because Ive ignored it. I 
havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service.  
Ive focussed on what I think the key issues are here: was the Post Office required to do 
more to inform Mr F about the expiry date of postal orders and, if the Post Office acted 
unfairly by refusing to refund Mr Fs postal order given the wider circumstances at the time 
these events happened. 
Having done so, I have come to the same overall conclusion as our investigator for broadly 
the same reasons. I realise Mr F will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how 
strongly he feels about whats happened. So, Ill explain why.
Section 112 of the Postal Services Act 2000 refers to the provision of postal and money  
orders. This says that it is for the Post Office company to determine the terms and conditions 
of the postal order service. 
The investigator has previously set out what the terms and conditions relating to postal 
orders say, so I wont repeat them in full here. But Im satisfied that the postal order terms 
and conditions make clear that postal orders need to be cashed within six months. And after 
that period then its up to Post Office to use its discretion.
I acknowledge that Mr F feels these terms werent made clear to him before he purchased 
the postal order. But I havent seen anything to make me think that Post Office staff were 
required to tell him  before he purchased the postal order, about the expiry date. The terms 
were set out on the reverse side of the postal order (in addition to the Post Office website), 
so Im persuaded that Mr F should have been reasonably aware of the terms before he sent 
the postal order to the third-party. 
Mr F has also said that there should be some degree of flexibility given these events 
happened during the pandemic when the UK was in lockdown. But Im persuaded that the 
Post Office has shown some degree of flexibility in Mr Fs case. As mentioned above, while 
the terms say that a postal order expires after six months, the Post Office can use its 
discretion to refund a postal order up to twelve months after expiry. And it has since said it 
was prepared to consider Mr Fs situation further  even though sixteen months had passed 
since he had purchased his postal order, if Mr F provided evidence that the postal order had 
only been returned to him in August 2021. Unfortunately, Mr F no longer had the information 
available to provide. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the Post Office treated Mr F unfairly given the time that had 
elapsed since he purchased the postal order. It follows that I wont be asking the Post Office 
to refund the value of the expired postal order to Mr F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman