DRN-3245442
The complaint
G Ltd complains, through its director Mr K, that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined its claim on
a motor trade policy.
Where I refer to QIC, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold QIC responsible
for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from February 2020, G Ltd had a motor trade policy under which QIC was
responsible for dealing with claims. The policy insured Mr K to drive nominated vehicles for
trade use and for social, domestic and pleasure (SDP) use. A Mr N was a named driver
insured for trade use only  not for SDP.
The subject matter of the claim and this complaint is a commercial vehicle with a 13 
number plate. It was covered on the policy. On 2 May 2020, G Ltd reported the theft of the 
vehicle from near Mr Ns home.
In November 2020, QIC cancelled the policy.
By a letter dated late March 2021, QIC declined the claim, listing reasons relating to Mr N.
QIC also referred to Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012
(CIDRA) and said it was making a pro-rata refund.
G Ltd complained to QIC that it should meet the claim. By a final response dated about April
2021, QIC turned down the complaint. G Ltd brought its complaint to us in May 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that it
was more likely than not that the vehicle was being used outside of business purposes.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to G Ltd 
and to QIC on 15 December 2021. I summarise my findings:
G Ltd hadnt made a fair presentation of risk.
QIC wouldnt have offered a policy to G Ltd if it had given Mr Ns home address and 
postcode. 
It was likely that Mr N wasnt using the vehicle for the business of G Ltd.
For these reasons, I didnt find that QIC treated G Ltd unfairly by declining its claim
That was the same outcome as the investigators opinion. But Id given some 
reasons (e.g. about the Insurance Act and the proposed sale of the vehicle) that the 
investigator hadnt mentioned. So my decision was provisional, to give G Ltd an 
opportunity to reply to such points.
Subject to any further information from G Ltd  or from QIC, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct QIC Europe Ltd to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
G Ltd disagrees with the provisional decision. Mr K says, in summary, that:
G Ltd used to work with a specific dealer.   
Hes attached photographs of G Ltds vehicle working on earlier jobs with that dealer.
G Ltd was supposed to collect a car from there on the day of theft. He cant give 
details of that job simply because G Ltd couldnt get there due to the theft of its 
vehicle.
QIC says it has nothing to add in response to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen, G Ltd was in the business of recovery of vehicles and also delivery of
vehicles.
From what Mr K and QIC have each told us, Mr K reported the theft of his private vehicle in
2018. He has told us that police quickly returned the vehicle to him, so he didnt make a
claim. But I consider that there had been an incident of theft. And QIC later found a record of
a claim. So I find it likely that Mr K had made a claim even if he withdrew it after police found
his vehicle.
From a statement of fact document, I see that QIC asked for the address of the policyholder
and any named Business Partner. The statement recorded Mr Ks name and home
address. But it gave no address in the box for Business Partner.
Instead, Mr N was described later in the statement of fact as an employee. I dont consider
that was correct as he was self-employed and had (according to Mr K) invested money into 
the business. Im not satisfied that G Ltd took reasonable care to give a fair presentation of 
risk.
From the statement of fact, I see that QIC asked a question as follows:
Accidents, Losses or Claims
Have you or any person named on this policy, been involved in a motor accident or
loss, or made a claim in the last THREE years whether a claim was made or not.
This includes any motor vehicle stolen OR suffered any loss by theft
(including vandalism) of or from a motor vehicle (including motorcycles).
G Ltd answered NO. I dont consider that was correct. Mr K had made a claim in 2018. Im
not satisfied that G Ltd took reasonable care to give a fair presentation of risk.As G Ltd was a business customer, I find that the Insurance Act applied rather than CIDRA.
Im not satisfied that G Ltd made a fair presentation of risk in relation to the 2018 claim or in 
relation to Mr N. And I accept QICs evidence that it wouldnt have offered a policy to G Ltd if 
it had given Mr Ns home address and postcode.
Mr K gave a telephone statement and later Mr N gave a telephone statement. He said he
had collected the vehicle from a parking area that morning and parked it near his home as 
he was going to use it later that day to do a vehicle collection job.
Mr K has said that G Ltd couldnt complete the job after the theft of the vehicle.
But G Ltd hasnt given enough details of the job, such as where Mr N was going, who he
was meeting or what vehicle he was collecting.
Also, Mr Ks statement on about 22 May 2020 said that he had advertised the vehicle for
sale online 3 weeks previously for £7,500.00 due to the situation with Covid- 19. So I find
that  in May 2020 - the pandemic had reduced the jobs for which G Ltd needed the van.
As G Ltd hasnt given enough details of the job on 2 May 2020, I find it more likely that Mr N
was using the vehicle for SDP or another use that wasnt a use for the business of G Ltd.
From what Ive seen, QIC cancelled the policy and gave a pro-rata refund from November
2020. I dont find that QIC treated the policy as void from February 2020. Ive seen a
breakdown showing that QIC charged about £7,000.00 for time on cover.
I accept that QIC took nearly a year to formally decline the claim. But I consider that some
delay was caused by incomplete information from G Ltd. And I find that QIC had highlighted
this by November 2020 when it cancelled the policy.
Ive found that G Ltd hadnt made a fair presentation of risk; and QIC wouldnt have offered a
policy to G Ltd if it had given Mr Ns home address and postcode. Ive also found it likely that
Mr N wasnt using the van for the business of G Ltd. For these reasons, I dont find that QIC
treated G Ltd unfairly by declining its claim. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct QIC to 
meet the claim or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct QIC Europe Ltd to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman