DRN-1979244
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that he couldnt cancel a fixed sum loan agreement he took out with 3J 
Finance Limited (3J) to fund an online education course for his child with a supplier that I will 
call E.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr H bought an online educational course for his son from E. He told us he 
was visited at home by a salesman from E who said it was a pay as you go course that could 
be cancelled at any time. Mr H said the course was used for several months but he didnt 
think it wasnt very good. So, in November 2019 he cancelled the direct debit hed set up to 
make the payments. Mr H was then contacted by 3J as his payments had stopped. When he 
said he wanted to cancel the course, 3J told him he couldnt at this late stage.
 
The loan agreement with 3J was interest free for five years, with monthly repayments of 
£40.75. Mr H also paid a £45 deposit. When he complained, he was told the terms and 
conditions of the agreement would have been made clear to him when he purchased the 
course  and he didnt cancel it within the allowed time. Mr H wasnt happy with this, so he 
brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. He thought Mr H was led to believe the 
course was pay as you go and could be cancelled anytime. The investigator thought that to 
put things right 3J should: end the loan agreement; refund Mr Hs deposit and any loan 
payments made after November 2019 together with 8% interest on these refunds; cancel 
Mr Hs access to the course and collect the laptop that was provided with; and, remove any 
adverse information from his credit file.
 
While Mr H accepted our investigators view, 3J didnt. In short, its position is that the 
documents signed my Mr H at the time of the purchase should be more credible than Mr Hs 
recollection of what was said.
 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: was Mr H led to believe he could cancel the course at any time?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair and reasonable outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
Mr H paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, 3J is jointly 
liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, E. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here.
Also, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making E an agent of 3J 
during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr H entering into the loan agreement. 
This means 3J can be held responsible for the things E said or didnt say, and what it did or 
didnt do during the sales process.
 
Mr H is unhappy that he wasnt allowed to cancel the course when, after his son had used it 
for a few months, he thought it wasnt very good. Mr H says he was told by Es salesman 
that the course would be cheaper than a tutor and that it was a pay as you go arrangement 
that he could cancel at any time.
 
Its not disputed that the terms of the loan agreement state Mr H could cancel it within 14 
days of loan being made, but after that it was a non-cancellable contract. But hes 
consistently maintained he was told he could cancel it at any time. Mr H says he wouldnt 
have signed up to the course had he known hed have to continue to pay for it for five years. 
So, I think the key issues I have to think about is whether the course and agreement were 
misrepresented to him.
 
3J says its not fair for our service to rely on Mr Hs recollection of what was said by Es 
salesman given the time thats passed. Instead it said the focus should be on the documents 
Mr H signed at the time. 3J pointed out that one document, the Customer Clarification & 
Satisfaction Form, has been hand signed by Mr H and hes initialled all the statements to 
confirm his understanding of the agreement.
 
3J said its a legal principle that a person is taken to have read and understood what theyve 
signed. It said the loan agreement, which Mr H signed electronically, was clearly marked 
Fixed Sum Loan Agreement, so it thought Mr H would have been aware he would be 
paying for the cost of the course using a loan. 3J also said Es salesman would have 
explained everything to Mr H at the time and signed a compliance form to confirm they did.
 
I agree that the documents signed by Mr H should be taken into account  and Ive done so. 
Ive looked at the relevant documents to see if it was reasonable for him to think that he 
would be paying for the course on a pay as you go basis.
 
While Ive looked at the documents signed by Mr H, Ive also taken into account the 
salesmans responsibilities to provide clear information to enable Mr H to make an informed 
choice before he agreed to sign up to the course. Also, I dont think the loan agreement is 
necessarily always an accurate description of the conversations that took place before the 
contract started. What was said in these discussions is key to if Mr H was misled about 
entering into the loan agreement.
 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it expects a responsible credit 
broker to do when arranging a loan. This is set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). As the lender, these regulations and guidance dont apply to 3J directly. But I think 
E was acting as a credit broker by arranging the loan agreement on behalf of 3J. So, Ive 
taken this into account. 
I wont go in to detail here about the provisions of CONC other than to say that it sets out 
that Es salesman had a duty to ensure Mr H had enough information about the loan 
agreement before he agreed to enter into it to buy the course.
 The Customer Clarification and Satisfaction Form refers to purchasing a Lifetime Licence 
and uses the generic term Finance throughout, rather than loan. I accept the words loan 
and finance are used interchangeably in the lending industry, but I think its understandable 
that a lay person may not have understood they were entering a loan agreement. There is a 
statement referring to loan agreement, but it notes this only applies where finance is the 
chosen option of payment, so I dont think this would necessarily be clear to Mr H that a 
loan was the method of payment. In any event, Mr Hs complaint is that he was told he could 
cancel the agreement at any time.
 
Ive thought about 3Js comments that Mr H signed the agreement. He says, apart from the 
Customer Clarification and Satisfaction Form, he wasnt provided with any documents to 
sign. Mr H remembers signing and initialling the Customer Clarification and Satisfaction 
Form. He told us that the salesman told him it was just a checklist confirming everything had 
been explained.
 
Mr H said that for the other documents, he was just asked to tick boxes on the salesmans 
tablet. I can see this is supported by the loan agreement, self-declaration letter, direct debit 
instruction and enrolment form all being signed electronically at the same time.
 
Im satisfied its unlikely Mr H could have signed all these separately at the same time. Its 
likely there would have been at least a slight delay if hed been asked to sign them 
separately. So, I think its likely he did indeed tick boxes on the salesmans screen in quick 
succession to sign all these documents electronically. Given the above, Im not persuaded 
Mr H would have been given a copy of the agreement before he electronically signed it.
 
Ive also thought about Mr Hs version of events.  He told us he was looking for some 
support for his son with his school work. At the time, his son hadnt long been at primary 
school. Any exams, such as GCSEs, were some years away.
 
In such situations, I think parents would typically look for private tuition. This is usually paid 
for by the hour, although some tutors may offer discounts for bulk bookings. Mr H told us he 
made it clear at the time that he wasnt sure about taking the course, but the salesman said 
Es course would be cheaper than a tutor. E needed to make it clear here that Mr H would be 
entering into a five-year loan agreement that could only be cancelled within the first 14 days.
Given the age of Mr Hs son, and what stage he was at with his schooling, I think it would be 
very unusual for a parent to commit to an arrangement lasting so long. Im satisfied that in 
these circumstances most parents would want flexibility when looking for additional 
educational support as their requirements would be very likely to vary quite a lot as the child 
was developing and growing up.
 
Mr H has stated from the outset that Es salesman told him this was a pay as you go 
arrangement that could be cancelled at any time. Hes been consistent and credible on this 
point. Mr Hs subsequent actions in cancelling his direct debit is consistent with him 
understanding this to be the case. In November 2019, after his son had been using the 
course for several months, Mr H told us he didnt think it was very good and his son had 
stopped using it. So, he simply cancelled the direct debit.
 
Im satisfied that, on balance, Mr H wouldnt have done this had he known it was too late to 
cancel the agreement. He should reasonably have been aware that stopping the payments 
could affect his credit file. Im also satisfied that it was only after Mr H was contacted by 3J 
around a month later about his payments stopping that he realised he couldnt cancel the 
agreement. At this point he raised his complaint.
 Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied Mr H wouldnt have gone ahead with a five-
year loan agreement, if hed been told he couldnt cancel after the 14-day withdrawal period 
and that he would still have to make the repayments even if the course didnt help his son 
and wasnt being used.
Putting things right
Mr H says his son used the course for several months until November 2019 when he 
cancelled the direct debit. So, I think its fair that he pays for this use. Im satisfied the 
monthly payments Mr H made up until November 2019 are a reasonable charge for this.
To put things right, 3J should:
End the agreement and remove any adverse information relating to it from Mr Hs 
credit file;
Refund Mr Hs deposit of £45 together with any payments Mr H has made since 
November 2019. It should also pay 8% yearly simple interest on these payments 
from the date they were made to the date of the refund;
Waive any outstanding payments due; and
Cancel Mr Hs access to the course and collect any relevant course equipment and 
materials at no cost to him.
If 3J thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest noted above, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that 3J Finance Limited must take the action Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
John Miles
Ombudsman