DRN-1979034
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
didnt make her aware of an exclusion when she took out her horse and rider insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs M took out a horse and rider insurance policy with NFU over the phone. 
Unfortunately, Mrs Ms horse became ill shortly after she took out the policy. On day 11 of 
the cover she contacted NFU to ask if she was covered for vets fees as the horse might 
require surgery. NFU said the claim would not be met because meant that any new illnesses 
first appearing in the first 14 days of cover were excluded.
Mrs M complained that NFU didnt make her aware of the exclusion when she took out the 
policy. NFU said the adviser told her about the exclusion over the phone before she took out 
the policy. The information also appears in the policy documents.
Mrs M remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. NFU had informed 
Mrs M about the exclusion and had sent the policy documents to her.
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators opinion. She said shed made it clear in her second 
phone call that she didnt understand the 14 day rule and the adviser hadnt taken the 
opportunity to correct this. So her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules required NFU to ensure the information it provided to Mrs M was 
clear, fair and not misleading.
Mrs M has acknowledged that NFU told her that any illness starting in the first 14 days of 
cover was excluded when she phoned for a quote. But she says it was said in a pre-scripted, 
robotic fashion which made it difficult to comprehend. 
Mrs M says that when she called back later that day to take out the cover, she discussed 
starting the cover the day after she was getting the horse because she wanted her direct 
debit to come out on the first of the month. She says the adviser should have said at that 
point that there would be no cover for 14 days. But the adviser stated there would be 12 
hours with no cover.
Ive listened to a recording of Mrs Ms second conversation with the adviser. In this Mrs M 
remarks that shed be unlucky if something happened to the horse as soon as he arrives. 
The adviser tells her the policy would start just after midnight. Mrs M says the horse was 
arriving in the afternoon (before the policy would start) and the adviser comments maybe 12 
hours without cover.
I appreciate Mrs M might not have realised the horse wouldnt be covered for illness 
occurring in the first 14 days of the policy starting. But I dont think the advisers comment 
about the 12 hours was misleading. The horse would still have been covered for other 
events under the terms of the policy as soon as the policy started.
I havent been able to listen to the first call, where Mrs M was given the quote. But Mrs M 
has acknowledged that she was given information about the 14 day exclusion in this call. I 
appreciate Mrs M might not have absorbed what she was told because of the way the 
information was read out. But it is also showing on the document summary where it says 
under what is not insured?:
Any new illness, disease or condition which first appears during the first 14 days of this 
cover, unless you can prove you have held previous continuous equivalent insurance up to 
the start of this cover.
So, I think NFU did enough to draw this term to Mrs Ms attention.
Mrs M says she believed that the exclusion didnt apply because the horses previous owner 
had a policy with NFU and the cover overlapped. She says the wording is ambiguous and 
doesnt make it clear that the cover needs to be the same person rather than the same 
horse. 
But YOU is defined in the policy document as every person described on your 
SCHEDULE. And Mrs M is the only person named on the insurance schedule. So, I think 
NFU has made it clear that the previous insurance needed to have been taken out by her, 
rather than the previous owner, for the exclusion not to apply. 
This type of exclusion is common within the industry. Its unfortunate that Mrs Ms horse 
became ill within the first 14 days of her taking out the policy. This meant she was unable to 
pay for vets bills and other costs amounting to a significant amount of money.
I appreciate Mrs M feels that if shed been aware of the exclusion, she would have taken 
extra precautions to try to avoid her horse becoming ill in the first two weeks of the policy. 
But Im satisfied that NFU made the 14 day exclusion clear to Mrs M. So, I wont ask it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman