DRN-2290263
The complaint
  Mr H, who is represented by a third party, has complained that BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMW), mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in August 2005.
What happened
 Mr H bought his PPI at a meeting when he was arranging finance to purchase a car.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. BMW didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Mr H told us he bought the PPI in a meeting so its likely that he received a 
recommendation about taking out PPI. That means BMW needed to ensure the PPI was 
suitable for his situation. BMW also needed to make sure that the information it gave Mr H 
about the PPI was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an informed decision 
about buying it.
Ive seen that when he bought the PPI, Mr H was employed as a member of the 
Armed Forces  and had been for some time. Ive seen from the available records of the 
sale that BMW was aware of this. 
As a member of the Armed Forces, if hed been unable to work because of accident or 
sickness hed have continued to receive full pay until either he was fit to work again or he 
was medically discharged. Hed certainly have been likely to have received full pay for 
longer than the 12 months which is the minimum period for which policies like this typically 
pay out.
So although Mr H might have been able to make a successful claim on the PPI policy, the 
cover would be only of limited value to him, given the extremely good benefits he already 
had. I therefore think BMW ought to have done more to make Mr H aware of this. Had Mr H 
been aware at the time that the PPI might not be right for him, I dont think he would have 
taken it out. 
It follows that I dont think the PPI cover was suitable for Mr Hs situation and was 
therefore mis-sold.
 
Putting things right
  BMW should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
Work out and pay Mr H the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr H paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year  .
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, LGI can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW to take off tax from this interest. BMW must give Mr H 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
  For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require BMW Limited to 
pay Mr H compensation in accordance with the calculation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman