DRN-3035851
The complaint
Mr K complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC and their decision to default his credit 
card account.
What happened
Mr K was provided with a credit card account by Tesco in 2017, with its most recent credit 
limit totalling £9,600.
Mr K was able to maintain payments to the account until January 2020, when he missed his 
minimum monthly payment. Mr K called Tesco to make this payment manually and it was 
taken on 30 January.
But Mr K failed to make any further payments to the account after this date. So, Tesco 
issued a pre-default letter to Mr K in May. The arrears on the account continued to build so 
Tesco issued Mr K with a default notice in June and they terminated the account in July. But 
Mr K was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr K wasnt happy with Tescos decision to default his account and the impact this had on 
his credit file and ability to obtain future credit. Mr K explained hed been furloughed due to 
the pandemic so his income had reduced. He explained this had impacted his mental health 
which explained why he hadnt been able to meet his minimum monthly payments. Mr K was 
also unhappy the default notice had been sent by post, which he said was received too late 
for him to clear the arrears which he wouldve been able to do. So, he wanted the default to 
be removed and a payment plan put in place to help him clear the remaining balance.
Tesco didnt agree. They recognised Mr Ks situation and the impact his mental health had 
on his ability to maintain his finances. But they didnt think theyd done anything wrong when 
defaulting his account. They explained Mr K hadnt made them aware he was in financial 
difficulty or that he was suffering with his mental health, so they werent able to consider 
these. And even if Mr K had, they explained Mr K wouldnt have been able to make use of 
the payment holidays introduced due to the pandemic as Mr K had missed more than one 
payment at that time. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr K remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised Mr Ks 
financial situation and the suffering he endured due to the pandemic and its impact on his 
mental health. But they thought Tesco had applied the default fairly, following the correct 
process. They thought Tesco had made Mr K reasonably aware his account was in arrears 
and a payment was required. And as Mr K hadnt made Tesco aware he was in financial 
difficulty or suffering mentally, they thought Tesco acted reasonably when following the 
default process. So, they didnt think Tesco needed to do anything more.
Mr K didnt agree. He thought hed been prevented from clearing the arrears before his 
account was defaulted and terminated as the default letter was received three weeks after it 
was dated. He thought Tesco shouldve contacted him by email as well as letter and this 
wouldve prevented this. But our investigator returned to Tesco, who confirmed Mr K had 
received monthly e-mail statements. As Mr K had never raised any concerns about receiving 
these, our investigator was satisfied Mr K had seen them. So, our investigator thought Mr K 
shouldve been aware of the status of his account, and its arrears, whether or not the default 
letter was received in a reasonable amount of time. So, they didnt think this impacted their 
original view. Mr K didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr K. I recognise the upset 
and worry Mr K wouldve been caused when he was furloughed as a result of the pandemic. 
I appreciate this wouldve had an effect on his immediate financial situation and I recognise 
how the worry this caused wouldve had an impact on Mr Ks mental health. So, I can 
appreciate how this wouldve been made worse when Mr K realised his credit card account 
had been defaulted by Tesco. This default is likely to impact Mr Ks credit file and his ability 
to obtain future credit and Ive no doubt this wouldve worried Mr K even further.
So, I understand why Mr K was unhappy with this and complained to Tesco. As Mr K has 
explained, most lenders allowed customers the chance to apply for payment holidays and 
other similar initiatives to account for lost income resulting from the effects of the pandemic. 
So, I can appreciate why Mr K feels Tesco shouldve acted more positively and 
sympathetically to his situation. But for me to say Tesco have done something wrong, Id 
need to be satisfied of one of two things. Either, that their decision to default Mr Ks account 
was unfair. Or, if I think this was fair, that Tesco failed to make Mr K aware the account was 
due to default with reasonable notice meaning Mr K lost the opportunity to clear the arrears. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its not in dispute that Mr K failed to meet his minimum monthly repayments after January 
2020. Mr K has explained this was due to being furloughed and the financial impact this had 
as well as his mental health struggles at the time. But Ive seen no evidence to show Mr K 
made Tesco aware of this until his account had already defaulted. So, I dont think Tesco 
wouldve been able to change their processes to take this into account and because of this, 
Id expect them to follow the usual default process.
And following this process, Id expect Tesco to default an account no sooner than three 
months, and no later than six months, from the date an account began to accrue arrears. In 
this situation, Mr Ks account began accruing arrears in late January 2020 as hed incurred a 
late payment charge. And Ive seen Mr Ks account was subject to a default notice in June, 
with the account being terminated in July. No payments were made to Mr Ks account after 
January, so the arrears on his account had continued to build. As Im unable to see evidence 
that shows Mr K attempted to contact Tesco to clear these arrears in full, or arrange a 
suitable repayment plan, and the default was applied within the time period Id expect, I think 
Tesco applied the default to Mr Ks account fairly.
I understand Mr K doesnt agree with this and he thinks he shouldve been given the 
opportunity to apply for a payment holiday. But I dont think this is the case. For a payment 
holiday to be put in place, the onus was on Mr K to apply for it. And I can see no evidence to 
show that Mr K did. I wouldnt expect Tesco to contact every customer and prompt them to apply for this as it was only intended for those customers whose income was impacted by 
the pandemic.
And even if Mr K had applied when this option became available, Tesco have confirmed Mr 
Ks application wouldnt have been successful. This is because by the time this option 
became available after the first lockdown was imposed, Mr K had already missed two 
payments. So, he didnt meet the eligibility criteria. So, I dont agree that Mr K shouldve 
been given this option instead of a default being applied.
Ive then thought about whether Tesco gave Mr K reasonable notice of the default, in order 
to allow him the opportunity to clear the arrears and prevent the default being applied. Mr K 
doesnt think Tesco did as he didnt receive the default notice until three weeks after it was 
dated. Mr K thinks Tesco shouldve e-mailed him, as well as sending correspondence 
through the post, to ensure he received all the communication in a timely manner.
While I recognise it wouldve been frustrating for Mr K to receive the default notice some 
time after it had been sent, I dont think this means Tesco failed to provide him with 
reasonable notice of the default. Mr K has said if hed received the notice earlier, hed have 
cleared the arrears to prevent the default being applied. But, based on the balance of 
probability, I think this is unlikely. Ive seen Tesco wrote to Mr K each month, each time a 
payment was missed, explaining his arrears were increasing and that it needed to be paid 
immediately. So, I think Tesco made Mr K reasonably aware his account was in arrears and 
needed paying.
And in particular, Ive seen in April Tesco sent Mr K a Notice of Sum in Arrears. Included 
with this notice was an arrears information sheet supplied by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) which explained The lender could take action against you and you could end up 
paying more in interest and charges. Missed payments could affect your credit rating and 
make it more difficult to get more credit in the future. This sheet also advised Mr K to 
contact the organisations he owed money to, in this case Tesco, and Let them know youre 
having problems. As Ive explained above, Ive no evidence to show Mr K did. 
So, even if Mr K received his default notice a period of time after it was sent, I think Mr K 
shouldve already been reasonably aware there were arrears that needed paying on his 
account or his credit file may be affected. And Ive seen no evidence to show Mr K attempted 
to speak to Tesco or clear the arrears. Because of this, I think its more likely than not that 
Mr K wouldnt have cleared his arrears to prevent the default being applied even if the 
default had been received sooner.
Ive also considered Mr Ks comments about these letters not being sent to him by e-mail. 
But Tesco have confirmed Mr K had signed up to receive his monthly statements by e-mail 
in 2018. Ive seen no evidence that shows Mr K ever raised concerns with Tesco about not 
receiving these e-mails. So, I think its most likely that he did. So, Im satisfied Mr K received 
his monthly statements from January to July 2020 which wouldve shown his account was in 
arrears and that these arrears were continuing to build. Because of this, I think Mr K 
shouldve been reasonably aware he needed to arrange payment with Tesco or at least 
contact them to explain the situation he found himself in. I cant see Mr K did this and so, I 
think Tesco acted reasonably when continuing to default the account. Because of this, I dont 
think Tesco need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr K was hoping for. And I recognise it wont resolve the 
difficulty Mr K may now faced in obtaining future credit as the default has been reported to 
his credit file. But Tesco have an obligation to accurately report the way Mr K maintained his 
account in order to allow other lenders to calculate the risk of providing Mr K with future 
credit. And I think Tesco have done so on this occasion.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman