DRN-2587280
The complaint
Ms P complains about Amtrust International Underwriters DACs (Amtrust) decision to 
decline her car insurance claim. She wants Amtrust to settle her claim. 
What happened
Ms P took out Tyre and Alloy Wheel Damage Cover with Amtrust. Ms P says her car went 
into a garage for the tyres to be changed. She says she then noticed damage to the alloy 
wheels of her car and made a claim to Amtrust. She provided photos showing the damage. 
Her claim was declined on the basis the damage had occurred over a period of time. Ms P 
complained and Amtrust responded and said the damage to Ms Ps alloys had accumulated 
over a period of time as evidenced by corrosion on the wheels. 
 
Amtrust said the photos showed areas of corrosion on the wheels. They said corrosion 
builds up over time and is caused by leaving damage unrepaired over a period of time. They 
said the damage had not been reported within the policy time scales of 30 days. And, 
damage accumulated over an extended period of time is not covered. Amtrust said the 
decision to decline the claim was correct and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms P. She thought Amtrust hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining Ms Ps claim. Ms P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms P will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Theres no dispute here that the photos show damage to Ms Ps alloy wheels. Amtrust have 
declined the claim on the basis of exclusions in the policy, so Ive looked into whether 
theyve acted fairly and reasonably in their handling of the claim. 
My starting point is Ms Ps policy document. There is a section which refers to claims which 
arent covered under the policy, and it says: 
 Alloy wheel or tyre damage which is not reported within 30 days of the damage      
   occurring.
  Alloy wheel or tyre damage where the damage has been accumulated over an  
   extended period, which we deem to be wear and tear.
 
Amtrust say that, from looking at the photos provided by Ms P, each photo shows a number 
of separate areas of damage. They say, between each area of damage there are spaces 
where the alloy remains undamaged. They say this indicates that there was more than one 
occasion where the alloys have been subject to impact. And, they also say, the variation of 
colour within the scratches indicates that the incidents vary from older to newer damage. 
They say fresh damage changes colour over a period of time, when it has been left open to 
the elements causing corrosion. 
Insurers often appoint claim investigators or specialists experienced in this type of work to 
look at the circumstances of the claim. Amtrust havent done that here but they do point out 
that the assessment decision was made by a claims assessor and during a review by the 
claims administrators. They say the claims administrators deal with thousands of wheel 
claims. So, I dont think its always unreasonable, in itself, if an insurer doesnt use an expert 
to comment on the claim, but I would expect the insurer to take reasonable steps to assess 
any damage and then make findings which are reasonable based on those steps. 
In this case, Amtrust have looked at photos showing the damage. The photos are clear and 
include close-up images of the alloys. The photos do show damage to the alloys and I dont 
disagree with Amtrusts comment that there are spaces between areas of damage. I think 
this does suggest the damage isnt as a result of one incident. That said, this doesnt mean 
that all the damage didnt occur within 30 days prior to Ms P reporting it. So, Ive looked at 
whether Amtrust have applied the exclusion fairly. The photos show discolouration and 
corrosion to the alloys. I think its reasonable for Amtrust to argue that damage to an alloy 
wheel leads to discolouration and corrosion over time. And, I am persuaded by their 
comment that differences in colour within the areas of damage to Ms Ps alloy wheels 
suggest some of the damage relates to older incidents. And, I dont think its unreasonable 
for Amtrust to take the view that this damage occurred more than 30 days before Ms P 
reported the damage.  
In summary, I think Amtrust have taken reasonable steps in investigating Ms Ps claim and I 
dont think theyve acted unfairly in declining the claim based on the exclusions in the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman