DRN-3567179
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Esteem Money Ltd to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits
to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017 Mr Ts employer sent out Time to Choose information asking members of 
the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either remain in the 
BSPS, which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017.)
Mr T was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. In November 2017 Mr T met with Esteem Money - 
having been introduced to them by another adviser - and it completed a financial planning 
questionnaire with him to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. In 
summary this recorded that Mr T was 44 years old; he was working full-time; he was 
divorced; he was looking to buy a home; he had no savings; and he had around £600 of 
credit card debt. Esteem Money also carried out an assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk, 
which after further discussion with Mr T it deemed to be moderate.
In the same month Esteem Money advised Mr T to transfer his BSPS benefits into a 
personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in a range of investment funds, 
which Esteem Money deemed matched Mr Ts attitude to risk. The suitability report gave 
nine bullet point reasons for the recommendation, but in summary the key reasons for this 
recommendation were:
Mr Ts circumstances meant he would benefit from the flexibility of a personal 
pension arrangement.
Mr T had no need for an automatic spouses pension.
The analysis showed Mr T would receive a larger tax-free cash lump sum as a result 
of transferring out of the DB scheme.
Esteem deemed the investment growth required to match the benefits available 
through Mr Ts DB scheme were achievable referring to both the critical yield and 
hurdle rate figures.
Mr Ts DB scheme was in deficit.
Mr T accepted the recommendation and in March 2018 a little over £141,000 was 
transferred to Mr Ts new personal pension and invested in line with the recommendation.
Mr T, through his representative complained in 2021 to Esteem Money about the suitability 
of the transfer advice.
Esteem Money didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. In summary it said:
Mr Ts objectives agreed and confirmed were to preserve the value of his pension for 
his children in the event of his death; he wanted to access his benefits early; and he 
would like to retire at 60.
Mt Ts attitude to risk and capacity for loss was not low as claimed by Mr Ts 
representative.
Mr T had no need for a widows pension and saw this as a waste of money.
The growth achieved on Mr Ts pension has exceeded the single life critical yield 
figure, which in the event of his death will be paid to his children in line with this 
wishes.
Overall, it believes the advice was suitable as it was the only option that fully met 
Mr Ts stated needs.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr T, via his representative asked this service to consider his 
complaint. And an investigator upheld the complaint and required Esteem Money to pay 
compensation. In summary they said a transfer wasnt suitable. They said a transfer to a 
personal pension was unlikely to improve on Mr Ts DB scheme benefits given the level of 
growth required to match them. In addition they said there were no other compelling reasons 
to justify a transfer out of the DB scheme  for example Mr Ts retirement was many years in 
the future and his plans werent known at this time; he already had flexibility through his 
current workplace pension; his pension was designed to provide a retirement income and 
not a tool to provide a legacy for his children; other ways of providing for his children 
couldve been explored; and by moving to the BSPS2 Mr T wouldve retained the option of 
transferring in the future when his retirement plans were clearer. 
Esteem Money disagreed. In doing so it provided a substantive response in a 12-page letter. 
While I have read everything in full, in summary the pertinent points to Mr Ts complaint it 
made are as follows:
It was concerned about the way the complaint had been considered because it 
wasnt clear proper regard had been given for the relevant rules at the time or the 
context in which the advice was given  specifically whether as per COBS 9.2.1R it 
had taken reasonable steps to ensure the recommendation was suitable, which is 
only what it was required to do.
The investigators assessment placed disproportionate weight on the critical yield, 
which it regards as a blunt tool, and on the comparison with the discount rate, which 
it wasnt obliged to refer to. It says in Mr Ts case, as a single man, he had no 
requirement for a spouses pension, so the hurdle rate was more appropriate 
consideration, which was achievable. 
No adequate regard was paid to Mr Ts circumstances  in particular that he wouldnt need to solely rely on his DB scheme income in retirement and that he didnt require 
a guaranteed income to his retirement income needs.
The assessment was premised on the flawed assumption that Mr T had the option of 
transferring to the BSPS2, when it wasnt certain it would proceed.
Inadequate weight was given to the fact that Mr T made a fully informed decision to 
proceed, which is clearly recorded in the advice paperwork from the time.
Causation has not been properly considered or assessed. It says it is unclear how 
the Financial Ombudsman Service can be confident about what Mr T might otherwise 
have done. It believes there is no evidence Mr T wouldve opted into the BSPS2 had 
he been advised to do so. It says the evidence indicates that Mr T wouldve gone 
ahead with the transfer in any event because he was attracted to the beneficial 
characteristics of the personal pension and he wanted to avoid the risk of moving to 
the PPF.
There is no evidence that Mr T has suffered a loss as a result of the transfer.
Esteem Money also asked for an oral hearing. It said the investigators findings are in stark 
contrast to the evidence from the time - so it believes an oral hearing where evidence from 
both parties can be heard before a final decision is issued will ensure the complaint is fairly 
determined.
The investigator didnt change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make a
final decision and to decide whether to hold an oral hearing.
I turned down Esteem Moneys request for an oral hearing because I was satisfied I could 
make a decision on this case fairly without hearing oral evidence. So, Im now providing my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Esteem Moneys actions 
here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
I can see that Esteem Money has said there are inconsistencies with how this service and 
the regulator consider the suitability of DB transfer advice cases. It also says no 
consideration has been given for the material rules at the time in considering this case.
But as Ive set out clearly above, Im satisfied that I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time in deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can also see Esteem has referred on several occasions to its sole requirement to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave was suitable for Mr T. It has also made a point 
about the bias stance that a transfer is not in the clients best interest. I agree that under 
COBS, Esteem Money was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr T was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). But additional regulations apply 
to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These additional regulations say that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Esteem 
Money should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Ts best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, 
Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr T was 44 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork said his intention was to 
retire at 60. The critical yield required to match Mr Ts benefits at age 60 if he opted into the 
BSPS2 and transferred to a personal pension arrangement was 7.94% if he took a full 
pension and 6.59% if he took a tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced pension. The critical 
yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 60 was quoted as 7.1% per 
year if Mr T took a full pension and 6.79% per year if he took a cash lump sum and a 
reduced pension. I can see both Esteem Money and the investigator referred to the critical yields associated with the benefits available under the BSPS  Esteem produced a TVAS 
using the benefits available to Mr T through the existing scheme as well as the BSPS2. But 
Mr T didnt have the option of remaining in the BSPS, so it is the figures associated with the 
BSPS2 which are relevant here. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.3% per year for 15 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ts 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little 
point in Mr T giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, assuming Mr T 
opted into the BSPS2 and took his full pension at 60, the critical yield was 7.94%. This was 
significantly higher than the regulators middle projection rate  it was approaching that of 
the upper rate - and over 3% higher than the discount rate. If Mr T chose to take his cash 
lump sum and a reduced pension at 60, the critical yield was still higher than the middle 
projection rate. 
I think it was clear Mr T was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those 
provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in line 
with that attitude to risk. In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth 
required, it would have required Mr T to take a higher level of investment risk than I think he 
indicated he was prepared to take. And even then I think its more likely than not Mr D would 
be worse off financially at retirement if he transferred out. The respective critical yields 
required to match the benefits provided through the PPF were 7.1% and 6.79% - both of 
which were higher than the middle projection rate and still above the discount rate. So I dont 
think the position was any different even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
Esteem Money has said that it is unfair to place weight on the discount rate when it wasnt a 
requirement by the regulator to refer to. I accept businesses didnt have to refer to it. But 
while I havent based my findings solely on this, I think it is a reasonable additional 
consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at 
the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the 
benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension 
by using reasonable assumptions. So, businesses, like Esteem Money were free to use the 
discount rate as this was considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in 
any event, Ive considered this in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, 
which providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Ts 
attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he 
transferred out of the DB scheme.
I can also see that Esteem Money says too much weight has been placed on the critical 
yield  Mr T was a single man so he didnt need a spouses pension. It goes on to say that 
the hurdle rate is a more appropriate consideration, which it says was achievable.
But I dont think the importance of the critical yield should be downplayed here. I still 
consider it gives a good indication of the value of benefits Mr T was considering giving up. 
Its also the case that the regulator required Esteem Money to provide it and so deems it a 
necessary and important part of the decision-making process. So Esteem Money needed to 
provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I think it is a relevant consideration here. 
While Mr T was divorced, so I accept the spouses pension wouldnt have been important to 
him at the time, its possible that it wouldve been in the future if Mr T did get married again later in life. I acknowledge its recorded that Mr T said he didnt anticipate getting married 
again, but it was still a possibility later on. Also the Hurdle Rate did not account for the 
guaranteed and escalating income in retirement the DB scheme provided. Furthermore I 
dont think Mr T could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a 
fixed regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 15 
years  so its entirely possible that Mr T would want at least some guaranteed income in 
retirement, which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme.
Overall, even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and Mr Ts pension moved to the PPF where 
his benefits would be reduced, he was unlikely to be able to improve on those benefits by 
transferring to a personal pension. By transferring his pension it was highly likely Mr T would 
be financially worse off in retirement. So based on this alone, I dont think a transfer was in 
Mr Ts best interests.
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Esteem Money has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered below whether 
such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs
Its recorded that Mr T would benefit from much greater freedom and flexibility regards 
accessing his pension and that he liked the idea of accessing cash at 55.
But having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr T needed to transfer his DB scheme to 
a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement  if indeed thats what he 
required.
Crucially Mr T was only 44 at the time of the advice. And based on what Ive seen he didnt 
have any concrete plans retirement plans. The suitability report referred to Mr T having 
greater freedom and flexibility by transferring, but there was nothing specific to Mr Ts 
circumstances to say why it was a suitable recommendation for Mr T to give up his 
guaranteed benefits now when he didnt reasonably know what his needs in retirement 
would be. Im not persuaded he any firm plans to take his tax-free cash and defer taking his 
income, or indeed to vary his income throughout retirement. I can see the advice paperwork 
records that Mr T liked the idea of accessing some cash at 55. But it also records that Mr T 
had no specific reason for wanting to do so, other than to be able to help his children if 
needed. So it strikes me that this was more of a nice to have or a feature of transferring to a 
personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective. Just because Mr T might 
have thought it was a good idea or sounded attractive, it doesnt mean that Esteem Money 
had to execute what he thought he needed  it was for Esteem Money to decide what was in 
Mr Ts best interests and advise him accordingly.
I also think Esteem Money ignored the retirement funds that Mr T would be building up over 
the next 15 years or more through his employers workplace DC scheme. Esteem Money 
recorded that Mr Ts contribution along with his employers was 16% of his salary and he 
would continue to invest.
 
So given Mr Ts current income at the time and not accounting for any investment growth, in 
around 15 years (when Mr T indicated he might want to retire) it would be worth in the region 
of £103,000. And with another five years contributions to age 65 it would be worth £135,000 
 again without accounting for any investment growth. So with even modest investment 
growth, I think this would amount to a not insignificant sum.
This means at Mr Ts intended retirement age of 60, if he opted into the BSPS2, and given there was no known need for the tax-free cash, he could take a full pension of £7,374 a year. 
At age 65 this would rise to £9,929 a year. And while Mr Ts income need in retirement 
wasnt really known  the fact find simply has a question mark recorded against the relevant 
section  I can see it was estimated that Mr T needed £1,000 a month net to meet his 
expenditure. And while this alone wouldnt have met Mr Ts need in full, in my view this 
wouldve provided a strong foundation for Mr Ts retirement, and importantly it was 
guaranteed. Mr T could then make up the difference by supplementing this with his other 
smaller DB scheme income (Esteem Money didnt know what this was, so it wasnt factored 
into its advice, when I think it should have been) together with accessing income and or lump 
sums from his DC scheme until his state pension became payable from age 67. As I said 
above, I think Mr T wouldve likely had a significant pension to draw on flexibly, as and when 
he needed, to top up his income or take additional lump sums. So, I dont think Mr T 
wouldve had to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr T had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 60 Mr T 
wouldve been entitled to a pension of £7,271 per year or £8.980 at 65. This was lower than 
the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont think it was substantially lower 
such that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr T 
wouldve had his two other pension schemes to draw on until his state pension became 
payable. So, I still think Mr T couldve met his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt 
gone ahead and hed had to move with it to the PPF.
Overall I think Mr T couldve met his likely retirement income needs by remaining in the DB 
scheme and supplementing his income with his other pensions. And I think this was the case 
whether Mr T opted into BSPS2 or the scheme moved to the PPF - I dont think he needed 
to risk his guaranteed benefits to do so.
Death benefits
The advice paperwork records that Mr T wanted his children to benefit from his pension  he 
wanted them to always be beneficiaries even when no longer dependant.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr T given the circumstances.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of 
this, the priority here was to advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to a family 
after death. So I dont think the potential for greater, or different death benefits should have 
been prioritised over this and Mr Ts security in retirement. 
And I say potential, because the sum left on Mr Ts death was dependent on investment 
returns and if he lived a long life, and/or investment returns were lower than expected, there 
may not have been a large sum to pass on anyway.
Mr Ts DB scheme provided pre-retirement benefits in the form of a childrens allowance. 
And Mr T could nominate his children as the beneficiaries of his new workplace pension  if 
he hadnt already done so. He also had his death in service cover, which again I see no reason why he couldnt nominate his children to benefit from this too. So Mr T already had 
the ability to ensure the majority of his pension would be passed on in line with his wishes.
If Mr T genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Esteem 
Money couldve explored additional life insurance. And in my view the starting point ought to 
have been to ask Mr T how much he would ideally like to leave to his children after taking 
account of the above existing means. And to ensure any extra sum was specifically for his 
children, he couldve taken extra cover out on a whole of life basis and written it in trust for 
the benefit of his children. Given Mr Ts age, his recorded good health and his income, I 
think this was likely to have been affordable.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. And I dont think Esteem 
Money did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr T to meet this 
objective.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I have no doubt that Mr T was concerned about his pension and the future shape of the 
scheme in light of the recent announcement by his employer. I think its likely he knew of 
other colleagues who were transferring and there was lots of negative sentiment about the 
PPF. So its possible that Mr T was also considering transferring because of these concerns 
about his employer and what might happen. 
But it was Esteem Moneys duty to give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what was 
in his best interests. At the time of the advice, all of the available information from the 
scheme trustees indicated that, while not guaranteed, the new BSPS2 scheme would likely 
go ahead. And I think this is what Esteem Money shouldve been clear with Mr T to help 
alleviate his concerns.
Esteem Money has said Mr T wanted to avoid the risk of his pension ending up in the PPF. 
But despite the 10% reduction in starting benefits and the fact the increases in payment in 
the PPF were lower, importantly the income was still guaranteed. And the income available 
to Mr T through the PPF wouldve still provided a strong foundation towards the overall 
income he thought he needed at retirement and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. So I think Esteem Money ought to have reassured Mr T that, even if there 
was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, moving to the PPF was not as concerning as 
he thought or might have been led to believe. Mr T might not have been able to later transfer 
out of the PPF  but for the reasons Ive set out earlier, I dont think Mr T wouldve needed 
to, to achieve his goals.
Summary
I accept that Mr T was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control, and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like 
attractive features to Mr T.
 But Esteem Money wasnt there to just transact what Mr T might have thought he wanted or 
that sounded attractive. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr T needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free, and increasing income whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF. By 
transferring to a personal arrangement Mr T was unlikely to achieve greater overall 
retirement benefits at his intended retirement age of 60. And I dont currently think there 
were any other particular or compelling reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. Mr T did not have any firm retirement plans and his need to access cash at 55 
appears simply to have been a nice to have and not a genuine objective. So, I dont think it 
was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this 
time.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given - but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr T had at least 15 years before 
he expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement would likely be. So, 
I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr T wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under 
the BSPS2. So, I think Esteem Money shouldve advised Mr T to opt into the BSPS2.
Esteem Money says that inadequate weight has been given to the fact that Mr T made an 
informed decision to proceed with the transfer. And it believes the evidence indicates Mr T 
wouldve transferred in any event  it challenges the view that Mr T wouldve accepted any 
advice to opt into the BSPS2. 
Ive therefore thought carefully about what Mr T would, more likely than not have done had 
things happened as they should have and had Esteem recommended Mr T opt into the 
BSPS2.
I accept that Esteem Money disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr T and provided him with 
information in the suitability report. But the provision of information doesnt make an 
unsuitable recommendation suitable. And ultimately it advised Mr T to transfer out, and I 
think, more likely than not, Mr T relied on that advice. While Mr T was motivated to transfer 
when he approached Esteem Money, on balance, I still think Mr T wouldve listened to and 
followed Esteems advice if things had happened as they should have and it recommended 
he opt into the BSPS2. Mr T was an inexperienced investor who in my view neither 
possessed the necessary knowledge, skill nor confidence to go against the advice they were 
given  particularly in complex pension matters. Furthermore Mr Ts pension accounted for 
the majority of his retirement provision at the time. 
So, if Esteem Money had provided Mr T with clear advice against transferring out of the 
BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ts fears about the PPF were so great that he wouldve insisted 
on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and 
was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Esteem Money 
had explained that Mr T could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr T would have 
insisted on transferring out of his scheme against Esteem Moneys advice.In light of the above, I think Esteem Money should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as 
per the above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes. 
I can see that, while it appears Esteem Money was making a general point, in response to 
the investigators assessment it said that if a redress award is deemed necessary then it is 
the PPF which it should be measured against. It says this is the only outcome someone 
would have had if theyd stayed in the BSPS. But as I said above, all of the information at the 
time indicated that the scheme would go ahead and this is what Esteem Money shouldve 
said to Mr T and based its advice one. So Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances that the benefits available to Mr T under the BSPS2 should be used for 
comparison purposes.
Esteem Money also argues, again more generally, that a complainant should be made to 
purchase an annuity if a guaranteed income is what they should have had rather than a cash 
award for them to enjoy. In Mr Ts case, it is evident that he will benefit from flexibility by 
virtue of the position hes in now. But that has only arisen because of the unsuitable advice. 
Ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to be appropriate redress to put right 
instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer advice. And I see no reason to 
depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
Esteem Money says there is no evidence that Mr T has suffered a loss as a result of the 
transfer. I dont think Esteem Money is saying that it has already carried out a redress 
calculation and it shows no loss. So whether Mr T has lost out as a result of the unsuitable 
advice will be determined once Esteem Money undertakes a loss calculation in line with 
what Ill set out in the Putting things right section below. 
Finally I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr T. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Esteem Money  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the 
emotional and practical impact this had on Mr T. Taking everything into account, including
that I consider Mr Ts retirement provision is of great importance to him, I think the unsuitable 
advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr T whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr T has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr T.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Esteem Moneys unsuitable advice. I consider that 
suitable advice been given, Mr T wouldve opted into the BSPS2.
Esteem Money must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, because Mr T has no plans to retire, compensation should be based on his 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Esteem Money may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ts contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date Esteem Money receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Esteem Money to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Esteem Money Ltd to 
pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Esteem Money Ltd should also pay Mr T £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Esteem Money Ltd to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Esteem Money Ltd to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Esteem Money Ltd pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Esteem Money Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman