DRN-3963346
The complaint
Mr F complains that Target Servicing Limited wouldnt allow him to redeem his help to buy 
shared equity loan.
What happened
Mr F bought a property with the assistance of the help to buy scheme. This is a government 
scheme whereby a purchaser takes a shared equity loan to assist with the purchase of a 
property, alongside their main mortgage. The loan is for a share of the purchase price and in 
due course the same equity share must be repaid. The loan is secured by way of a second 
charge which sits behind the main mortgage. These are unregulated loans and the lender 
Homes England, a government body  is not a regulated firm. But the lender has appointed 
Target to administer the loans. Target is a regulated entity and is carrying on a regulated 
activity in administering this loan. So Target is responsible for answering this complaint.
Mr F took his loan out in 2017, borrowing around £180,000  which was 40% of the 
purchase price of his property. He also took a mortgage of around £245,000, paying the 
balance of the purchase price as a cash deposit. The property is a flat in a larger block. 
Help to buy loans are interest free for the first five years. This means Mr F has been required 
to pay monthly interest since 2022.
In 2020, Mr F decided that he wanted to redeem his help to buy loan. He contacted Target, 
and Target sent him its customer information pack setting out the redemption process. It told 
him he would need to instruct a valuer to value the property, and the valuation would be 
used to set the redemption price. As hed borrowed 40% of the purchase price, Mr F would 
need to pay 40% of the valuation to redeem his loan.
A valuation was carried out in June 2020. The valuer identified that there was a risk that the 
blocks external walls might have combustible cladding. Buildings where theres a fire safety 
concern with the external walls  such as combustible cladding  can be assessed by a 
qualified fire safety professional who prepares an EWS1 form, rating the risk the building 
presents.
The valuer said that an EWS1 form had not yet been prepared for Mr Fs block, and in the 
absence of the EWS1, the valuer was unable to value the property  but that it would be 
worth £475,000 if the EWS1 was positive.
Mr F sent the valuation to Target. He also completed the relevant forms and paid the 
administration fee.
Target told Mr F the valuation and his redemption request was under review. But the 
redemption didnt go ahead. In August 2020, Target told Mr F that the lender would instruct 
its own surveyor to value the property. Target says the surveying firm, which Ill call S, was 
actually instructed in November 2020, but it didnt actually visit Mr Fs property or carry out a 
valuation, so in July 2021 Target instead asked Mr Fs original valuer to complete a new 
declaration and update the valuation. Target says its not responsible for the delay in this 
period  the surveying firm is.
Mr Fs valuer declined to sign the declaration and provide an updated valuation, saying that 
it wasnt able to comply with the requirements in the declaration and didnt think them 
appropriate. So no updated valuation was carried out.
Target then suggested that Mr F apply to the President of the Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) to appoint a valuer to value his property. But it then said this was not an 
appropriate way forward either. It said Mr F would need to provide a current valuation, either 
from his previous valuer or a new one, before his redemption request could proceed.
Meanwhile, an EWS1 form was completed in February 2021. It rated the block Mr Fs 
property was part of as B2  meaning that there are combustible materials in the external 
wall and the risk is such that remedial work is required.
Mr F complained that Target hadnt accepted his valuation in 2020 or allowed him to 
redeem. He complained about delays and poor communication since then. And he doesnt 
think that its fair to expect him to pay for a new valuation or charge him interest on the loan. 
He got a mortgage offer to borrow the extra money needed to redeem his loan in 2022, but 
the redemption didnt go through. Its likely that a future mortgage offer will be at a higher 
interest rate.
Target accepted that there had been some delay and poor communication, though it said 
that some of that was because of delays by S, for which it wasnt responsible. It agreed with 
our investigators suggestion that it offer £500 compensation. But it didnt agree it was 
responsible for Mr F being unable to redeem his loan or that it should compensate him for 
what might be higher interest rates on his mortgage borrowing if he borrows more money to 
do so.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out how I thought this complaint should be resolved. I 
said:
As a regulated entity, in administering the loan on behalf of the lender Target is carrying out 
the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection.
Under the regulated activities, Target is performing the lenders duties, and exercising the 
lenders rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as collecting payments the 
lender is entitled to. In my view this means that Target must do what the lender is required to 
do, and only take steps the lender is entitled to take, while acting on the lenders behalf. And 
as a regulated firm it has wider obligations to act fairly.
Although the lender is Homes England, it has appointed Target to act on its behalf as  
using the description in the loan agreement  its nominated agent. Mr F was told to deal 
with Target at all times and Target was presented as being responsible for the management 
and administration of the loan agreement.
Im satisfied that these are matters I can take into account in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, as the appointed administrator and as the 
regulated entity carrying out regulated activities in its own right, Target is the appropriate firm 
to respond to this complaint. As a regulated entity carrying out a regulated activity, it has an 
obligation to act fairly and reasonably in performing the lenders duties.
Under the loan terms and conditions, Mr F is entitled to redeem the loan at any time, either by selling the property or by repaying in some other way (such as from savings, or by taking 
further borrowing on the main mortgage). The amount required to redeem the loan is the 
same proportion of the propertys value as originally borrowed  40% in this case  as 
determined by an independent valuation.
According to the terms and conditions, a redemption request should be made to Target as 
the nominated agent. A valuation is then arranged by the appointment of a qualified surveyor 
by agreement between the parties. That valuation is binding in setting the redemption figure, 
and the loan should be repaid within three months (extendable to four on application) of the 
valuation.
In this case, Mr F followed the appropriate process for redeeming his loan, by notifying 
Target and then  at Targets request  obtaining an independent valuation of his property. 
He then sent the valuation to Target.
However, the difficulty in this case was that the valuer was unable to value the property. The 
valuer said: 
Attention needs to be drawn to the current issues regarding cladding on the building. 
We have been advised that [redacted] who are the original builders will be issuing the 
EWS1 form between 8th July 2020 and 30th September 2020. In the absence of the 
Form EWS1: External Wall fire Review, we can only issue a Nil valuation regarding 
the property.
A nil valuation does not mean the property is worthless  that it is worth £0. What it means is 
that the valuer cannot give an accurate valuation because of important information affecting 
the value which is not available  in this case an EWS1.
This means that the valuer was unable to value Mr Fs property. He did say that without 
cladding issues, or with a satisfactory EWS1, it would be worth £475,000. But as it wasnt 
known if that was the case, he couldnt give an accurate value.
In fact, the EWS1 was only prepared in February 2021. And it gave a B2 rating  meaning 
that there was substantial risk requiring remediation. In August 2022, Mr F told our 
investigator that the developer had accepted responsibility for the costs of remediation of the 
cladding, but that leaseholders would have to contribute the costs of balcony remediation.
Neither set of works had started, and no dates had been agreed. None of this was known at 
the time of the valuation.
I dont think this valuation could have been used by Target to set a redemption figure. It 
didnt determine the market value of the property  it said what the value might be if there 
were no problems (which turned out not to be the case), but said without knowing that no 
value could be given. And in the absence of a valuation setting the current market value, 
there was no way of setting the redemption figure in line with the loan terms and conditions.
And in any case, even if Target could have set a redemption figure, I dont think its more 
likely than not that Mr F would have been able to redeem his loan in 2020. Hes provided us 
with a copy of his bank statements from the time, which show that he had around £32,000 in 
savings. But its likely he would have needed much more than this to redeem  although 
there wasnt a valuation, he had borrowed £180,000 in 2017.
This means Mr F would have been dependent on raising the funds to redeem his help to buy 
loan by borrowing more money on his main mortgage. Hes shown us that his mortgage 
lender was willing to offer him a further £184,000 in 2022. But that doesnt mean hed have been able to borrow this amount in 2020.
Im aware from my knowledge of the wider mortgage market that at this time it was very 
difficult to raise mortgages on properties like this. Lenders were very cautious about whether 
properties with potential cladding risk were acceptable security. Mr Fs building had concerns 
 but no EWS1 had yet been completed. His valuer for help to buy redemption was unable to 
value the property. And its likely that a valuer for mortgage lending purposes would have 
reached the same conclusion, meaning his mortgage lender would likely not have agreed to 
further borrowing secured on it. Im not persuaded that its more likely than not that his 
lender would have been willing to have lent him a further £180,000  on top of his existing 
mortgage  in 2020.
By 2022, things had moved on. Mr Fs building had an EWS1, and had a remediation plan in 
place. The wider mortgage market had moved on too. And so I dont think the fact that 
Mr Fs lender was willing to offer additional borrowing in 2022 means that its more likely 
than not that it would have done so in 2020.
Ive looked at the records of Mr Fs contacts with Target throughout this period, from 2020 to 
2022.
In 2020, when Mr F sent in his valuation, Target merely told him it was under review. It didnt 
give him any substantive updates for some time. In August it told him a new valuation would 
be arranged  which in fact never took place.
By mid-2021, when it was clear S would not be valuing the property, Target asked Mr F to 
get his valuer to sign a new declaration and provide an updated valuation. The valuer signed 
the declaration in September 2021, but in November 2021 told Mr F it wasnt willing to 
provide an updated valuation because it didnt think it could meet Targets requirements to 
take into account information about the remediation and the potential liabilities of 
leaseholders in its valuation.
Throughout this time, there were significant delays, and times when Target failed to 
communicate with Mr F or progress things in a timely way.
Ive thought about the impact of this on Mr F and his attempts to redeem the loan. But while 
Ive no doubt it was a frustrating and upsetting experience, Im not persuaded that Target is 
ultimately responsible for Mr F being unable to redeem his loan.
Ive said that the valuation he obtained in 2020 didnt in fact give a value for the property. 
Mr F obtained an update from his valuer in September 2020, but that update simply 
reiterated the previous valuation. And by November 2021, the valuer was no longer willing to 
act.
Ive also found that even if the propertys market value had been set, Mr F wouldnt have 
been able to redeem his loan at this time because he didnt have the funds to do so in place 
and likely wouldnt have been able to borrow them from his mortgage lender. It wasnt until 
around May 2022 that Mr F had the funds in place to be able to redeem his loan via an offer 
of further borrowing from his mortgage lender.
And so even if Target had not delayed, and had made clear to Mr F sooner than it did that he 
would need a new valuation setting the market value of his property, Im not persuaded Mr F 
would have been able to redeem his loan. For that to happen, he needed both a valuation 
and to have the funds in place  and he did not have the funds in place. I therefore dont 
think I can fairly find that Target is responsible for Mr F not being able to redeem his loan.Once Mr F did have the funds in place, from May 2022, a new valuation would be needed to 
set the market value of the property, and therefore the redemption price. Target did tell Mr F 
he needed a new valuation, and suggested contacting RICS to find a valuer able to value the 
property. Mr F didnt want to pay a fee to RICS on the basis that hed already paid for a 
valuation, in 2020  but, as Ive said, that valuation wasnt enough to redeem because it 
didnt set a value for the property. So a new valuation was needed at this time.
Although Target did delay matters, and didnt communicate well at times, its not responsible 
for Mr F not having a valid valuation in place, or for him not having funds to redeem in place 
before 2022. And therefore I dont think I can fairly hold Target responsible for Mr F not 
being able to redeem in 2020, or once he had the further borrowing offer from his lender  
and I cant fairly hold it responsible if any future borrowing application Mr F makes, once 
there is a valuation in place, is at a higher interest rate.
Putting things right
I have much sympathy for Mr F and the position he finds himself in. He bought this property 
in good faith in 2017, before there was wide understanding of the risks associated with 
cladding and other fire safety matters. Through no fault of his own, hes ended up in an 
affected property with all the worry and uncertainty that brings. Its a very difficult situation for 
him.
But just as this couldnt have been known to him when he bought the property, it couldnt 
have been known to Target or the lender either. Target isnt responsible for his predicament, 
and I dont think it can fairly be expected to waive the requirement for a valuation  or stop 
charging contractual interest in the meantime.
In order to redeem his loan, Mr F will need to obtain an up to date valuation and send that to 
Target, which will use the valuation to set a redemption price. For all the reasons Ive given, I 
dont think I can fairly hold Target responsible for the fact that Mr F has not so far been able 
to redeem. But I do think its delays in responding to him and explaining what was happening, 
and poor communication, caused him substantial further worry. And Im satisfied £500 is fair 
compensation for that.
The responses to my provisional decision
Target did not reply to my provisional decision. Mr F replied, and set out why he didnt agree 
with what Id said. Mr F said:
He didnt think the compensation I proposed was enough  he said it was symbolic 
and wouldnt deter Target from acting the same way in the future. It amounted to only 
51p per day of delay. And in the meantime Mr F has had to pay £1,700 interest on 
his help to buy loan.
My provisional decision does not resolve his situation. It does not ensure that his 
redemption can be completed in a timely fashion.
He does not agree that its unlikely his lender would have been willing to lend the 
additional amount required. He said I have no evidence for saying that. His salary 
was stable throughout and so he would have been able to demonstrate affordability. 
His wife had received a decision in principle for a similar amount in 2020. His lender 
had told him that it didnt require an EWS1 for existing liabilities. In any case, Target 
had never asked him to secure funds, so he doesnt understand why I raised this 
issue now. He would never have applied for a mortgage offer until Target told him 
what he needed to pay to redeem the loan. He has never had a mortgage application rejected, and theres no reason to suppose one would have been rejected in this 
case.
He said that to fairly resolve the complaint, Target should accept the valuation of 
£475,000, allow him to redeem the loan without further costs, and refund all the 
interest hes been charged in the meantime.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr F is unhappy with my provisional decision. I can see he is in a frustrating and 
difficult situation, and I understand that he wants matters resolved so he can repay his help 
to buy loan.
Ive thought very carefully about everything hes said. But Im afraid I havent changed my 
mind about what I think is the fair way to resolve this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think the valuation was one that could be relied 
on to set the redemption price. It didnt set out a firm and final value for the property  it said 
what the property might be worth if there were no issues with its construction, but as that 
wasnt known a firm value couldnt be given. Thats why the valuer gave a nil valuation  
reflecting that uncertainty.
As a redemption depends on a firm valuation of the property, therefore, I think there were 
reasonable grounds for Target not taking forward the redemption request at that time.
And in any case, I dont think Mr F would have been able to redeem the loan at this time 
even if there had been a firm valuation, or if Target had been willing to proceed on the basis 
of the possible £475,000 valuation.
Thats because there was, at that time, material uncertainty about the condition of the 
building. There was no EWS1. When an EWS1 was carried out later, it rated the property as 
B2  meaning that there were significant defects with the external walls which required 
remediation.
Target may not have asked Mr F for proof of funds at the time. But the reason I raised this as 
an issue is because if Target had issued a redemption figure Mr F would have needed to find 
the money to repay the loan. Its clear that he didnt have sufficient funds himself to do that, 
and needed to borrow the necessary amount by extending his existing mortgage.
That means its highly relevant whether he would have been able to get further borrowing on 
his mortgage or not. If he could have done, he was in a position to pay off the loan once 
Target accepted a valuation and issued a redemption figure. But if he couldnt get further 
borrowing on his mortgage, it doesnt matter what Target did or didnt do  Mr F was not in a 
position to repay the loan without that further borrowing.
I have no reason to doubt that if hed applied for a mortgage in 2020 Mr F would have 
passed affordability, just as he did when he actually applied in 2022. But thats not the issue 
here.
As well as the mortgage being affordable, a lender has to be satisfied that the property is 
good security for the loan. That means that before it would agree to lend, a lender would 
carry out a valuation of the property (instructing a surveyor to do so on its behalf)  and would only agree to lend if the surveyor said that the property was good security for the 
increased borrowing amount, and if the property met the lenders lending criteria.
I know from other complaints and my wider knowledge of the mortgage market that at this 
time both a lender and a surveyor carrying out a valuation for a lender would have wanted to 
know about the cladding risk on Mr Fs property. Theyd have wanted to see an EWS1 form. 
And in the absence of one I think its unlikely  based on my knowledge of how the mortgage 
industry operated at this time  that the lender would have been willing to lend on this 
property in 2020.
Mr F says his lender told him it wouldnt need to see an EWS1 for existing liabilities. And 
that may well be the case for making a change to an existing mortgage  such as a rate 
switch. But I dont think that would have been the case for either a new mortgage, or for 
substantial further borrowing on an existing mortgage.
And I dont think Mr Fs wife having obtained a decision in principle affects my conclusion 
here either. As I say, this isnt related to affordability  its about the property the further 
borrowing would be secured on. I havent seen the decision in principle and dont know if it 
related to the same property. And in any case, a decision in principle is the first stage of a 
mortgage application process. Its an initial check of the maximum a lender might be willing 
to lend based on the applicants finances  but doesnt involve any checks of the property, 
and happens before a valuation takes place. So this isnt evidence that Mr Fs lender would 
have been willing to lend an additional £180,000 secured on this property in 2020.
Putting things right
For all those reasons I remain of the view that even if the valuation had given a clear and 
firm final value, and even if Target had accepted that and set a redemption figure, Mr F 
would never have been able to repay the help to buy loan in 2020. He was dependent on 
further mortgage borrowing to do so, and I dont think that borrowing would have been 
available to him at the time.
It follows from that that I dont think I can fairly require Target to allow him to redeem based 
on that valuation, or compensate Mr F as if the redemption had happened in 2020.
By 2022, Mr F was able to fund a redemption  hes shown that his mortgage lender was 
willing to offer further borrowing at this point. That may be because, by then, there was a 
remediation plan in place. But redemption would still require a valuation to take place. I dont 
think its fair to require Target to rely on the 2020 valuation  since it wasnt a firm valuation 
of the property, and in any case it expired before Mr F was in a position to raise the funds he 
needed to repay Target. A new valuation would need to take place for Mr F to redeem the 
help to buy loan. Target told Mr F that in 2022, and it remains open to him to restart the 
redemption process and obtain a new valuation.
I dont think it would be fair to require Target to refund the interest charged, either. Interest is 
properly chargeable under the terms and conditions until the loan is repaid. Mr F wasnt in a 
position to redeem the loan before 2022, when he was able to arrange a mortgage. So it 
wouldnt be fair to refund interest before that point. And in 2022 Target told Mr F he would 
need to obtain a new valuation and it would then restart the redemption process  which I 
think was fair.
However, I do think that Targets communication with Mr F throughout this period was poor. 
There were long delays and a lack of updates, and this contributed to the overall worry and 
upset Mr F experienced. I think £500 is fair compensation. Ive taken into account what Mr F 
says about this. I note hes calculated this represents 51p per day. But thats not how our compensation awards work  theres no daily rate, and in any case Target is (for the reasons 
Ive explained above) not responsible for the fact that Mr Fs loan has not been redeemed 
yet. Nor are our awards designed to be punitive or act as a deterrent. Rather, they are 
designed to reflect the impact on the complainant flowing from where the firm went wrong. 
Applying that approach, and looking at things in the round, I think £500 is fair compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to pay Mr F £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman