DRN-1602584
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt notify her before the end of the 12-
month term of her Flex Regular Online Saver account. And that Nationwide failed to cancel a 
standing order to the account. She says this caused her to lose interest after the end of the 
12-month term.
What happened
In May 2018 Mrs H opened a Flex Regular Online Saver account (Flex account) offering 5% 
interest for 12 months. Mrs H set up a monthly standing order of £250, to go from her current 
account into the Flex account. 
In July 2019 Mrs H noticed payments were still being made under the standing order. She 
also discovered the interest rate on her Flex account had fallen from 5% to 0.60%.
Mrs H complained that the standing order had continued, and said she didnt receive a 
notification when the interest rate, on the Flex account, was about to fall. This was despite 
having been told Nationwide would contact her prior to the accounts anniversary. And 
having registered for Savings Watch - a Nationwide scheme that alerts customers to 
changes in its savings product range.
After contacting Nationwide, Mrs H was advised to complete an online complaint - which she 
did a few days later. She asked about the best options open to her, and said shed close the 
account if there was nothing similar to transfer the money to.     
Mrs H asked what interest rate she was receiving on her accounts, and asked for a payment 
from June 2019 to be returned to her current account. Mrs H believed the standing order 
should have ended at the end of the Flex account term. 
Mrs H said thered been a lack of communication by Nationwide, and asked them to return 
any interest shed have earned if the payment for June 2019 had stayed in her current 
account. She asked Nationwide to make a gesture of goodwill for the time she had spent in 
trying to resolve the matter. 
In Nationwides response, they confirmed the standing order had been set to pay £250 each 
month, but as the standing order didnt have an end date, it had continued to run until being 
cancelled by Mrs H. And as Nationwide werent able to transfer any funds back to her 
current account, this would need to be done by Mrs H via online banking.
 Nationwide said a Savings Watch email had been sent to Mrs H on 18 April 2019, advising 
of the change in interest rate on her Flex account. 
 As she didnt agree with Nationwides response, Mrs H brought her complaint to our service. 
She wasnt happy with the level of customer service provided by Nationwide in the handling 
of her complaint. Mrs H thought Nationwide had blamed her, and said they hadnt answered 
all of the points shed made in her complaint. Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, finding the evidence supported 
what Nationwide had said in their response to Mrs H. As she didnt agree with the 
investigators assessment, Mrs H asked for this review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Flex account                                                                                                             
Ive reviewed Nationwides Welcome letter for the Flex account. It confirms the account will 
change to an instant access account on 19 May 2019, meaning the interest rate would also 
change. The letter says Nationwide would contact Mrs H near to the accounts anniversary. 
Having registered for Savings-Watch through online banking, I can see why Mrs H might 
have thought shed receive notifications for any changes in interest rate. But terms and 
conditions of the Flex account make it clear the interest rate will only last for 12 months - so 
there would have been a certain level of expectation that Mrs H would know that the interest 
rate would change after the 12-month period had ended. 
I can see from the registration form for Savings-Watch, provided by Nationwide, Mrs H 
selected email as her contact method, and agreed to the terms and conditions. As Mrs H 
said she didnt receive a notification about the interest rate falling through the Savings-Watch 
scheme, so an incident was logged with the IT department. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the incident report confirming they sent a notification 
successfully on 18 April 2019, and I note, this was sent to the same email address Mrs H 
has used throughout her complaint. 
While I understand the frustration Mrs H has experienced in not receiving the notification, I 
accept it was sent correctly, and Nationwide had notified the change in interest rate. And 
given the interest rate would only change at the end of the term, I conclude this notification 
would cover the only interest change, but the yearly anniversary of the Flex account. 
I understand that Mrs H is also unhappy that she received a letter in July 2019 notifying her 
of further changes to interest rates on her Flex account. But from the transaction history 
provided by Nationwide, I can see this related to a change in interest rate for the following 
month. And I would expect occasional letters would continue to be sent while the account 
remained open. I would also expect Savings-Watch emails to continue unless the account 
was closed or the preference for notification was changed by Mrs H. 
Standing order. 
From the payment mandate provided by Nationwide I can see Mrs H set up the standing 
order on 19 June 2018, for a payment of £250 to go into her Flex Account every four weeks. 
From the mandate I cant see that a final date was entered, so understand the order would 
be ongoing until such time it was cancelled by Mrs H- which took place 12 July 2019.
A standing order is a customer's instruction to their bank or building society to send a regular 
payment, for a set amount on a set day to a named person or organisation. This can be for a set period of time or until it's cancelled. Standing orders are normally set up by the customer, 
either by completing a form, on the phone or by internet banking.
While I understand the frustration felt by Mrs H, Nationwide werent able to cancel or amend 
the standing order - as this would be something Mrs H would have needed to do.   
Customer service from Nationwide
Mrs H complained that Nationwide staff didnt call her back to discuss her complaint. While 
Mrs H has said that she didnt receive any missed calls from Nationwide, Nationwide 
provided details of two calls made by their complaint handler to Mrs H in July 2019. They 
also explained that if they couldnt get hold of a member, they write to them - which is what 
happened. On balance Im satisfied that Nationwide tried to call Mrs H to talk about the 
complaint, and then wrote to her confirming their response. 
When a business sends out a final response letter its not unusual for the business to stop 
discussing complaints once theyve given what they consider to be their final answer. Ive 
also read a copy of Mrs Hs complaint to the business - and can see they answered all of the 
points raised. Nationwide also advised Mrs H she had the option to bring her complaint to us 
- which she did.
In summary, Mrs Hs Flex account was for a 12-month period with an interest rate of 5% 
ending May 2019. In April 2019 Nationwide sent an email notification, telling Mrs H the rate 
was about to change. While I accept that Mrs H didnt receive the notification, and 
understand the frustration this has caused - Nationwide acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account, having sent it. 
Although Mrs H expected Nationwide would cancel the standing order, I cant see it gave 
any such undertaking. And as Mrs H had not set an end date, the standing order would have 
continued automatically until cancelled by her. This is, after all, what a standing order is 
designed to do. 
As I dont see that there has been any error by Nationwide Building Society, and I believe 
they acted fairly in the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman