DRN-1490743
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Silver 
packaged bank account.
He says because of dyslexia, he didnt understand the information he was given until he 
went home and discussed the account with his mum, and says it was only then that he 
realised that he didnt need the account. Hes also said he was told it would come with travel 
insurance, mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover, but says it didnt provide any of 
those benefits.
He has also said that, when the account was sold to him, he was made to take out a credit 
card and a loan that he didnt need and was told the Silver account would help improve his 
credit score.
What happened
Mr Ts account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free Classic account 25 March 2013
Upgraded to a fee-paying Silver account 22 December 2014
Added a Lloyds Club bolt on to his Silver account 28 January 2016
One of our adjudicators considered everything that Mr T and Lloyds have said and provided, 
and he didnt think the Silver account had been mis-sold.
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we deal with complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website and Ive taken this into account when considering this complaint.
I know this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr T, but after giving this case a lot of 
thought, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I will explain my reasons why.
Ive started by considering whether Mr T was given a fair choice. When the Silver account 
was sold to Mr T, hed already held a fee-free account with Lloyds for well over a year. And 
the evidence provided by Lloyds suggests that he later opened another fee-free account on 
17 June 2015. 
Therefore, when Mr T agreed to upgrade his account to a fee-paying Silver account, Im 
satisfied that he did so knowing that he didnt have to agree to it if he didnt want to, and that 
he was aware fee-free accounts were still available, if he was not comfortable with paying a 
monthly fee for his bank account.
In his correspondence with Lloyds, Mr T said he felt pressured into agreeing to the Silver 
account. Whilst I think its likely that Lloyds mightve encouraged Mr T into agreeing to 
upgrade to the Silver account, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Lloyds employed 
unreasonable sales tactics or pressured Mr T into agreeing to the account. On the contrary, 
the evidence that Lloyds has provided indicates that Mr T agreed to it because he was 
attracted to the benefits it offered.
Lloyds said that it didnt recommend the account to Mr T, whereas Mr T says that it did. But 
even if I think that Lloyds did recommend the account to Mr T, I dont think its 
recommendation was unreasonable.
The notes from the time identify that Mr T had a need for travel insurance, breakdown cover 
and mobile phone insurance. And Mr T has said in our questionnaire that he had a mobile 
phone, drove a vehicle and occasionally (albeit not regularly) travelled at the time the 
account was sold to him. And as this was the cheapest packaged account that Lloyds 
offered at the time that offered those features, I think its recommendation was not 
unreasonable.
Mr T has said in our questionnaire that he already had insurance cover for his phone and 
breakdown cover for his car. But the customer contact notes from Lloyds suggest that Mr T 
didnt have those insurance policies in place. Given that Mr T recalls being told about those 
benefits during the sale and he agreed to it, I think its likely that he either didnt have that 
cover in place; he had the cover in place but didnt tell Lloyds; or he agreed to it on the basis 
that hed cancel his existing policies and rely on the Silver account cover instead  the latter 
of which was something he, rather than Lloyds, wouldve had to have done. Either way, the 
evidence from the time suggest that Mr T had a need for at least some of the benefits the 
account provided.
As well as making sure the account was a good fit for Mr T, Lloyds also had to make sure 
that Mr T was given clear, fair and not misleading information about the account.
Mr T says that because of his dyslexia, he didnt understand the documents he was 
provided. Whilst that might have been the case, he does recall being told about the 
insurance benefits that came with the account during the sale. Lloyds has also provided 
evidence to show that Mr T called up about the travel insurance on 7 occasions, and he paid 
an excess fee waiver in October 2015 and October 2016. This makes me think that he had a 
good appreciation of what came with the account; who to contact about the benefits; and 
even that he could upgrade the level of cover that was provided. 
Mr T has said that he was mis-led into thinking that by agreeing to the account he would get 
travel insurance, mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover, but says it didnt provide 
any of these benefits. Im not sure why Mr T has said this, as I have checked and it did 
provide all three benefits - as well as the first £50 of an arranged overdraft being interest 
free. 
I have seen mention that Mr A asked the AA if he would be covered by the Silver account 
and was told he wasnt. But based on the little information I have about this, I see no reason 
why he would not have been covered by the Silver account breakdown cover, as he was 
covered in vehicles he was travelling in, even if he didnt own them.
Mr T has also said that when the account was sold to him, he was persuaded into taking out 
a credit card and loan that he didnt need. He says he was told that by taking out the Silver 
account this would help improve his credit score. According to Lloydss records, Mr T took out a credit card in June 2015 and a loan in June 
2017. I cant see why Mr T wouldve agreed to take out an account to improve his credit 
score when, by his own admission, he says he did not actually want additional credit with 
Lloyds. Moreover as the further credit was taken out some time after the sale, I dont think 
that the sale was linked to the loan or credit card.
I should also add at this point, that if Mr T is still unhappy with the lending decisions made by 
Lloyds, then this is something that would need to be looked into separately.
Finally, due to the lack of evidence, I cant be sure if Lloyds did give Mr T all of the important 
information about the account that it shouldve done, when it was sold to him. But Im 
satisfied that he was given some information about it and the associated benefits to 
understand what he was agreeing to. And Ive not seen anything about Mr Ts circumstances 
that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Silver account had he 
been given even more information about it.
So overall, I dont think that the Silver account was mis-sold. And whilst I appreciate that with 
benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mr T mayve read about packaged accounts in 
recent times, he may now think that the Silver account has been poor value for money. But 
that in itself doesnt mean that it was mis-sold or that Lloyds was wrong to have sold the 
account to him when it did. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman