DRN-1660614
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited has confirmed that four 
industrial endowment policies she took out in the 1980s for the benefit of two of her sons are 
no longer in force as they were surrendered some time ago. She maintains that neither of 
her sons has ever surrendered these policies or received any cash value from them.
She has requested Scottish Friendly to show when these policies were surrendered and to 
whom the cash value was paid. Otherwise, her sons should receive a reasonable cash 
payment from these policies.
What happened
Mrs W took out four industrial endowment policies - two each for the benefit of her two sons - 
through a predecessor firm of Scottish Friendly. 
Under these policies, premiums are payable to age 65 and provide five-yearly bonuses 
based on one-quarter of the sum assured in return for premiums of £0.67 or £1.34, paid 
every four weeks to a collecting agent. A maturity value is payable on the full sum assured at 
the policy anniversary immediately preceding age 65. The policy can be surrendered for a 
cash payment, and based on the information held by Scottish Friendly, the policies were 
surrendered sometime after October 1990.
While screenshots provided by Scottish Friendly show that all four policies are surrendered, 
but no details are given as to the date of surrender, the amounts paid or who received the 
surrender value.
Scottish Friendly has provided a copy of each premium receipt book which shows that 
premiums were paid to these policies until October 1990.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who thought it couldnt be upheld. 
She said that:
the evidence provided by Scottish Friendly in the form of screenshots confirms that 
the policies are no longer in force and premium payments have not been made since 
October 1990;
regrettably, theres no information as to when any surrender payments were made 
other than for a fifth policy that matured in January 2000;
but the policies were not in force when Scottish Friendly took over the business in 
2007;
the premium receipt books show the last payments were made in October 1990. So 
its likely the policies were surrendered between these two dates;
when a policy is no longer in force, a business isnt required to keep information 
about it indefinitely. Given that it has been at least 13 years since the four policies 
were surrendered, she didnt think it was unreasonable that Scottish Friendly doesnt 
have any further information;she couldnt recommend Scottish Friendly to make a payment without any evidence 
that it should do so. 
In response, Mrs W disagreed with the investigators assessment and maintained that her 
sons had never received a payment from these policies. If Scottish Friendly cant provide 
evidence that the policies were surrendered, how much was paid and to whom, it should 
accept that they are still in force and pay their cash value. These policies were taken out as 
a retirement gift for her sons at age 65 and theyve received no money from them. Its not 
satisfactory for Scottish Friendly to say that it cant offer an explanation because the policies 
discontinued a long time ago. 
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been referred to me for 
review.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In case such as this complaint, where there is very little evidence to confirm the status of 
these policies, the onus of proof lies with Mrs W to show, on balance, that her version of 
events is the more likely. I do appreciate that its very difficult to prove that a surrender 
payment hasnt been received, especially as Scottish Friendly isnt able to confirm when the 
policies were surrendered or the person to whom payment was made. 
Nevertheless, I have to make a decision according to the balance of probability as to what is 
more likely to have occurred.
The four policies in question are industrial endowment policies providing modest levels of 
benefit at small premiums paid to a collecting agent every four weeks. Significantly, the 
premium receipt books for these policies show that payments to them stopped in October 
1990, not long after the policies had been taken out. This confirms that the policies have 
been no longer active for some time. Although the policies are endowments designed to 
provide a maturity value at age 65, they would not have acquired much value when premium 
payment did stop.
Accordingly, given the level of benefits these long term policies provided and the modest 
premiums paid to them, the likelihood is that, in October 1990, they were made fully-paid 
with a much reduced benefit or were surrendered for a small cash value. The records 
provided by Scottish Friendly confirm that the policies were surrendered.
Mrs W, on the other hand, hasnt been able to provide evidence that could suggest to me the 
policies are still active, and that they do have an ongoing cash value. The premium receipt 
books are not evidence of the policy and, in any event, premium payments to them ceased 
almost 30 years.
The very limited evidence that does exist indicates the policies were discontinued after 
October 1990 and would have been made fully-paid or surrendered, with little cash value.
Therefore, I cant direct Scottish Friendly to pay Mrs W a surrender value for these policies 
now that, in any event, cant be quantified.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Kim Davenport
Ombudsman