DRN-2201853
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that their home insurer, QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined their claim 
for damage that happened to their roof during a storm.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M raised a claim against their buildings insurance policy on 19 February 2020. 
Roof tiles had been blown off their roof, which in turn had allowed water to enter the property 
and cause damage. 
QIC sent a surveyor to look at the roof. The surveyor reported that the mortar holding the 
tiles to the roof wasnt in a good condition. They concluded this was the cause of the 
damage, as it allowed the high winds to remove the tiles. 
QIC declined the claim because of this. They accept that the weather at the time met their 
definitions of a storm. But they say the root cause of the damage was the gradual 
deterioration of the mortar on the roof. And anything that happens gradually isnt covered by 
the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. A few different tradesmen whod looked at the roof told them it was 
in a good condition, and the damage was caused by the bad weather. So they complained 
about QICs decision. 
The matter couldnt be resolved, so Mr and Mrs M brought it to us. Our investigator found the 
circumstances and some photographs of the roof showed the damage was more likely due 
to the bad weather than to any problems with the condition of the roof. He said QIC should 
reassess the claim on the basis the damage was caused by a storm. 
QIC disagreed, raising points Ill pick up on later in this decision. As the matter couldnt be 
resolved informally, its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive found the available evidence better supports Mr and Mrs Ms view that the damage to 
their roof was caused by the bad weather at the time, rather than the condition of the roof. 
So Ive upheld their complaint. Ill explain my full reasoning below.
Its agreed that there were storm conditions that would satisfy the terms of the insurance at 
the time of the damage. Ive checked this myself by looking at historic weather reports and 
the exact terms of Mr and Mrs Ms agreement with QIC. 
The terms tell me QIC would accept storm damage claims where winds were force 10 or 
more on the Beaufort Scale. In miles per hour, this means greater than 55 miles per hour. 
Weather reports tell me the winds on the day the damage happened peaked at over 70 miles 
per hour. 
So Im satisfied the weather would meet the conditions of a storm, and be covered by Mr and 
Mrs Ms policy.
I note QIC said in response to our investigator that a roof in good condition should be able 
to withstand the winds speeds [sic] experienced on and around the date of loss. I dont 
agree with that view. Staying with the Beaufort Scale, the nature of the damage being 
claimed for  tiles being blown off a roof  is noted as a feature of force nine winds, which 
start at 47 miles per hour. So Im satisfied this sort of damage is consistent with the more 
severe conditions of February 2020, regardless of the condition of the roof. 
The main question here is whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
If there were other factors that meant the damage might have happened anyway, then I think 
it would be reasonable for QIC to decline the claim. QICs view is the condition of the roof 
was such a factor.
QIC and our investigator have made comments about the roofs condition, based on what 
they can see in photos that QICs surveyor took when they looked at the roof  specifically, 
the state of the mortar and the presence of roof moss. I note those comments, but Id 
ordinarily feel the informed opinions of roofing or surveying professionals should be given 
more weight in this sort of decision.
QICs surveyor wrote about the roof mortar, and from their inspection said the roof wasnt in 
good condition. But Mr and Mrs M have shown us two documents which say the condition of 
the mortar and the roof was good. One is from the company that saw the roof when they 
carried out emergency repairs. And the other is from the company that looked at the roof to 
give an estimate for fully repairing it.
So while ordinarily I would give weight to the informed opinion QIC relied on to say the 
condition of the roof wasnt good, here I see good reason to question it. Its contradicted by 
two other opinions from companies Id expect to be knowledgeable about roofing.
Mr and Mrs M also shown us a survey from when they bought the property, a year earlier. 
This made no mention of any problems with the roof. I note QICs comments that the survey 
wasnt looking as closely at the roof as later inspectors. I accept that, and give the report 
less weight than the opinions of QICs surveyor or the two roofers. But I do take from the 
home-buying survey that there was nothing to indicate to Mr and Mrs M that there was any 
problem with the roofs condition.
None of the experts have commented on the roof moss seen in the photos. I see that as 
saying it wasnt a factor in their assessments of the roofs condition. So Ive not given QICs 
comment that it plays some part in what happened to the roof as much weight in my 
decision. 
Looking myself at the surveyors photos of the roof after the storm, I see the tiles came off in 
one area. Mr and Mrs M report the damage happened in one night too. I cant see any other 
obvious signs of repairs in the photos, which tells me the roof has otherwise been able to 
withstand the weather since it was built. And it withstood other severe weather in the days 
before the damage happened. 
I havent disregarded the view of QICs surveyor, that the mortar had degraded and 
de-bonded from the tiles. But if the roofs condition was gradually deteriorating, Id expect the 
weight of evidence to show damage gradually happening more and more. By that I mean tiles coming off over the course of a few months, or over the multiple days of the bad 
weather in February 2020. And Id expect a problem with the mortar to affect the whole roof, 
as its likely it was all put in at the same time, using the same mortar throughout. 
But there havent been other incidents, nor was there widespread damage in the severe 
weather. So taking all the evidence together Im satisfied that its more likely the specific 
weather incident caused the damage, in the specific area the weather could most affect. 
Without the severe weather, the roof hasnt  and importantly, wouldnt otherwise have  
been damaged. In my view, the weather was therefore more likely the cause of the damage 
to the roof.
Putting things right
If QIC had treated Mr and Mrs M more fairly, I find they wouldnt have dismissed their claim 
as the result of a gradual problem. So to put this right, they should reassess the claim, on 
the basis the damage itself was more likely than not caused by the severe weather 
conditions at the time the damage happened.
Ive thought about whether to add on compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the 
delay settling the claim in a reasonable way. But the emergency repairs seem to have done 
enough to keep the damage from getting worse. And Im conscious that the timetable for 
work to settle the claim may have been delayed in any case, due to the national lock-down 
conditions that began shortly before QICs response to the complaint, in March 2020. 
So Ive decided the reassessment of the claim will be enough to put things right for this case, 
without a separate compensation payment. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about QIC Europe Ltd. To put this right, 
their claim should be reassessed in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, on the basis the damage was caused by the storm.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman