DRN-3087319
The complaint
Miss R complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax continued charging her excessive 
amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.  
What happened
Miss R complained to Halifax and said the overdraft charges were contributing to her 
financial hardship as the extra cost was making her overdraft more difficult to repay. Halifax 
didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss R was dissatisfied, she referred the complaint to 
our service.
I issued an initial provisional decision in July 2021 and went on to issue a further provisional 
decision in September 2021. I explained I couldnt consider Miss Rs concerns about 
overdraft charges applied until August 2018 as the matter was referred to us too late. In 
relation to charges applied after that date, I explained why I intended to conclude Halifax 
acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from July 
2019 onwards.
I found Halifax had suspended all overdraft-related fees on Miss Rs account until April 2019. 
Then at the start of May 2019, when the charges resumed, I noted Halifaxs system notes 
showed Miss R had reached out and explained she was unable to manage her account as 
she didnt have an income. The notes went on to state Halifax had given Miss R breathing 
space for 30 days and explained the consequences of this on her credit file. 
I noted Miss R asked for more time at the end of this 30-day period to stabilise her finances, 
and Halifax agreed to a further 30-day hold. It also explained this was the last time it would 
was able to offer this. Then in July 2019, when Miss R asked for another hold, it said it was 
unable to agree to this. Halifax told Miss R it needed to go through an income and 
expenditure analysis to potentially consider setting up a long-term payment arrangement to 
clear the overdraft would have meant a default being applied which would stay on her credit 
file for six years. Miss R didnt agree to this as she was regularly relying on her overdraft 
facility. She made a complaint, but Halifax closed it as she didnt accept its proposal of a 
payment arrangement.
I explained Id carefully considered the available information and could see that by July 
2019, Halifax had already provided assistance to Miss R for well over a year by suspending 
fees and charges during that time. So, a temporary solution had already been put in place. 
But Miss Rs financial situation hadnt improved, and she made it clear to Halifax she still 
couldnt afford the overdraft charges. I noted Halifax recognised this  after all it did suggest 
a longer-term solution. 
I thought Halifaxs offer of a longer-term arrangement was fair given Miss Rs financial 
situation was no longer temporary. By this point, it had already agreed and offered a 
temporary arrangement. Under the terms and conditions of the account, Halifax was entitled 
to withdraw the overdraft facility immediately and seek repayment of the outstanding 
balance. I also thought it would have also been fair of Halifax to record and report a default 
on Miss Rs credit file. I explained lenders have a duty to report accurate information to credit 
reference agencies so other lenders can make informed decisions about future lending 
applications.
While I appreciated Miss R was concerned about the impact on her credit file, I didnt think 
this meant a lender shouldnt have proactively stepped in to take corrective action. I thought 
Halifax should have imposed its proposal when it was clear Miss R was unlikely to 
sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I went on to explain that not only did Halifax let Miss R continue relying on her overdraft 
(which is meant for unforeseen emergency borrowing) for day-to-day expenditure, it also 
renewed the existing arrangement for a further year at the start of September 2019. As a 
result, Miss R ended up paying additional fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties shes already had in trying to clear it. In July 2019, the account 
was around £700 overdrawn. By July 2021, the account balance had reached (and 
occasionally exceeded) the agreed overdraft limit of £1,990. 
I acknowledged Halifax refunded some fees over this period. But I didnt think this went far 
enough or it meant Halifax acted fairly and reasonably when Miss R told it she was 
struggling to pay the overdraft charges. So, I found Halifax acted unfairly when it continued 
charging overdraft interest and associated fees from July 2019. I noted that by this point, it 
ought to have been clear Miss Rs financial situation hadnt improved despite temporary 
assistance offered for over a year. And shed made it clear she was unable to afford the 
charges and wasnt in a position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable 
period of time.
I invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Miss R didnt provide further comments or information for me to consider.
Halifax accepted my provisional findings. It said it would refund the overdraft fees applied to 
Miss Rs account since July 2019, taking into consideration any refunds already made during 
this period. Halifax told us an outstanding balance would remain after this refund, and it 
would reduce the existing overdraft facility to around this amount to prevent further 
borrowing.
Halifax also said Miss R would need to engage with it within 30 days of accepting my final 
decision to discuss a suitable repayment plan for the outstanding amount. If Miss R doesnt 
enter into a dialogue with it or the overdraft isnt repaid through alternative means, Halifax 
said it would look to remove the overdraft facility entirely after giving an additional 30 days 
notice. At this point, Miss Rs account would move to its Recoveries team and this would 
have an impact on her credit file, including the possibility of a default.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss R and Halifax for their responses. As neither party has provided anything further 
for me to consider in relation to why we cant consider Miss Rs concerns about overdraft 
charges applied until August 2018, I find no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
I conclude we cant consider this aspect of the complaint as it was referred to us too late and 
Im not persuaded exceptional circumstances apply. 
Ive next considered the additional comments Halifax has made in relation to the steps it 
intends to take in putting things right regarding the overdraft charges applied after August 2018. 
In my provisional decision, I found Halifax didnt take corrective action after Miss R 
complained and made it clear she couldnt afford the overdraft charges or sustainably repay 
what she owed within a reasonable period of time. Halifax has a duty and a responsibility to 
act. By reducing the overdraft facility on Miss Rs account following a refund, Halifax is now 
taking corrective action in ensuring the outstanding amount she owes doesnt increase again 
through further borrowing. Given the nature of the complaint  the overdraft facility being 
unsustainable  I consider this action reasonable. 
By engaging with Miss R to discuss a suitable repayment arrangement to clear the 
outstanding balance, Halifax is now also taking steps for a longer-term solution. So, having 
carefully considered its response, I consider Halifaxs proposal is reasonable. I would 
encourage Miss R to engage with Halifax to see what arrangements can be made.  
Fair compensation  what Halifax needs to do to put things right for Miss R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Rs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Rs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from July 2019 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Miss R to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Rs credit file, 
it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft in July 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax should remove any 
adverse information from Miss Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland trading 
as Halifax needs to put things right in the way Ive set out above.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman