DRN-3952649
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) have removed his 
online access to his credit card, to app only, and the app wasnt compatible with his mobile 
phone. He also complains that Virgin hasnt made reasonable adjustments for his autism 
and is in breach of the Equality Act 2010.
What happened
Mr B holds a credit card and two savings accounts with Virgin. In January 2021, Virgin 
removed the online access to credit cards, and moved access to a credit card banking app 
only. Mr B has autism and due to the nature of this disability he cannot use the telephone 
independently and requires support workers to aid him. He says his nearest branch is 200 
miles away and he says he relied on accessing his accounts independently online.
Due to Mr Bs disability, he required the assistance of his support worker to try and download 
the new credit card banking app on his phone. Mr B says he found this very stressful as he 
becomes confused and due to his autism becomes fixated on a task. After trying for two 
hours to download the credit card banking app with his support worker, Mr B was still 
unsuccessful. 
He called Virgin for help but was told that it was likely his phone was too old to support the 
app which is why he was having difficulties downloading it. Mr B didnt have the means to 
buy a new phone and felt Virgin were discriminating against him due to his disability and so 
raised a complaint with Virgin.
In Mr Bs complaint to Virgin, he explained that he had an iPhone6. Virgin confirmed that 
Mr Bs iPhone6 was compatible and that he should be able to download the credit card 
banking app. Virgin also told Mr B about some of the alternative means in which he can 
check and monitor his credit card. They said he could use telephone banking; he could use 
the automatic voice recognition function on telephone banking or complete an online form to 
Virgin, whod respond to his query within 48 hours. 
In recognition of the stress and inconvenience caused, and any associated costs, Virgin 
offered Mr B £100. Unhappy with Virgins response and their alternative suggestions Mr B 
contacted our service to further his complaint.
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and explained that they found that 
Virgin had addressed Mr Bs concerns with the credit card banking app appropriately. They 
said that if Mr B continued having difficulties accessing his account, to either contact Virgin 
for further assistance (as Virgin suggested in their final response letter) or he could make 
use of the reasonable alternative options Virgin have provided. Considering what Mr B had 
told us about his disability, the investigator felt the alternatives suggested seemed viable 
methods for Mr B as an alternative and reasonable adjustment.
Mr B rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. He said the 
alternative methods available arent ones he can use independently, and hed need to pay a 
support worker to help him, and this places him at a disadvantage to those who dont have a 
disability. So, the complaint has been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 19 January 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Bs account history to see how he uses and operates his credit card 
account. From what Ive seen it appears Mr B used the card to make a balance transfer and 
take advantage of a 0% interest rate. Mr B paid his monthly bill by direct debit and didnt add 
any additional spending to the card. 
Mr Bs support worker has explained the difficulties Mr B had when Virgin switched the way 
in which they allow him to access his credit card account. His support worker has said that:
Mr B needs instant access to his account and to be able to access his account daily 
to monitor his account activity given that hes concerned about fraud.
He cannot use the IVR system due to the assisted software he has on his phone.
Mr Bs nearest branch is over 200 miles away.
He needs support to make a telephone call.
So, the options Virgin has offered dont work. I havent seen any evidence about how 
frequently Mr B used to log into his account before Virgin made changes, evidence about 
how Virgins IVR system works and whether Mr B use of software would prevent him from 
checking his balance or evidence about his nearest branch. 
In response to my provisional decision, Im going to ask Virgin to comment on what Mr Bs 
support worker has said about the difficulties its switch has caused Mr B with evidence to 
back up what it says.
Virgins credit card online banking
Virgin used online banking for access to all its services. Mr B was managing his own 
finances and accounts with Virgin adequately. Mr B says he was able to obtain instant 
access to his account using the online banking to check his credit card balance, and that by 
having instant access to his account relieves his concerns that someone could target his 
account. As Ive just mentioned Id like Virgin to comment on how frequently Mr B used to log 
into his account.
Virgins credit card mobile banking app
Virgin moved customers access for their online credit card banking to a credit card banking 
app only in January 2021. Virgin explained their reasons as to why they moved their credit 
card banking to app only. They say they wanted to give their customers the ability to manage 
their credit card whenever and wherever they wanted to. 
How this has affected Mr B
From what Mr B has said, he wasnt averse to trying the credit card banking app. I can 
appreciate his frustrations that he wasnt able to download the app onto his mobile phone 
given that the information on the literature Virgin issued said his phone should be 
compatible. When he called Virgin with the assistance of his support worker for help, he was then told 
that it was likely that his phone was too old if he wasnt able to download the app, and 
therefore not compatible. But I cant see that at any point during this call that Mr B was 
asked what phone he had so it couldve been confirmed whether his phone was compatible. 
Had Mr B been asked what phone he had, then I wouldve expected Virgin to have picked up 
that something wasnt right when he said he had an iPhone6 but still wasnt able to 
download the app on his phone.
In Mr Bs complaint following the call he had with Virgin about access to his credit card 
accounts, Virgin were able to confirm in their final response letter that Mr Bs iPhone6 was 
compatible. It wasnt until my involvement with Mr Bs case, and contact between our 
service, Virgin and Mr Bs support worker, that its recently been established that Mr B in fact 
has an iPhone5. This means Mr B doesnt have the relevant software on his mobile to be 
able to download the credit card banking app. 
Its taken a considerable amount of time to conclude whether Mr B was able to download the 
credit card banking app. Had Virgin asked more questions about the difficulties Mr B was 
having getting the app considering hed told them he had an iPhone6, it wouldve been found 
that Mr B in fact had an iPhone5  which wasnt compatible with the credit card banking app 
and was why he wasnt able to access the app on his phone.
Considering what Virgin know of Mr Bs disability and the difficulties he has with 
communication and how he gets confused, I wouldve expected them to have bottomed out 
whether his phone was compatible with the credit card banking app, and why he was having 
difficulties with this much sooner. He was given conflicting information and left confused and 
anxious as to why he couldnt access his account. 
For these reasons, Im intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint on this point. I intend to ask 
Virgin to award Mr B an additional £200 compensation for the time wasted, the misleading 
information as to whether his phone and software was compatible with the credit card 
banking app, and the distress and inconvenience and poor service hes received.
Alternatives means of accessing Mr Bs account
Now that its been established that Mr B doesnt have a phone thats compatible with the 
new app, Ive taken Mr Bs credit card account activity into consideration when looking at the 
alternative ways Mr B can monitor his account. 
Telephone banking
Mr Bs support worker has explained that Mr B isnt able to use the phone without support  
therefore this alternative isnt a viable alternative as hed need to pay his support worker to 
assist him each time he needed to call Virgin. As Ive already mentioned, Id like Virgin to 
comment on this in response to this provisional decision.
Interactive Voice Response (IVR)
As a quick way to check the balance of his account, Mr B could use Virgins IVR. However, 
Mr Bs support worker has explained that Mr B uses voice enabled software when using the 
phone, which wouldnt work with Virgins IVR system. As Ive already mentioned, Id like 
Virgin to comment on this in response to this provisional decision.
Electronic and paper statementsVirgin have confirmed that Mr Bs account is now set up for paper statements, however, a 
statement will only be issued if there is account activity. Mr B says he would access his 
account daily, and so having to wait for a monthly statement doesnt allow him to maintain 
his independence and be active in his own life regarding the basic need to do his banking. 
Online form
Virgin customers can contact them to ask questions, raise a query, and change details on 
their account using the online banking form. Mr Bs support worker says theyve trialled the 
idea of using the online form, but they encountered difficulties as theres a long delay before 
getting a response. When Mr B had access to his account online, he was able to obtain 
instant access. Having instant access to his account relieves Mr Bs concerns that someone 
could target his account.
Ive looked at Mr Bs account history to see how he uses and operates his credit card 
account. From what Ive seen it appears Mr B used the card to make a balance transfer and 
take advantage of a 0% interest rate. Mr B paid his monthly bill by direct debit and didnt add 
any additional spending to the card. 
From what Ive seen so far and from looking at Mr Bs need to access his credit card account 
and check his balance, Im satisfied that Virgin have provided reasonable alternatives 
considering Mr B cant access the credit card banking app. The online banking form would 
provide Mr B with the information he needed  and while I appreciate the response isnt 
instant, for what Mr B used his account for, I find this alternative adequate for Mr Bs needs. 
Disability discrimination
Mr B has complained that Virgin have failed to make reasonable adjustments for him. In 
other words, have failed their duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 
2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that 
its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and 
reasonable. If Mr B wants a decision that Virgin have breached the Equality Act 2010, then 
hed need to go to Court.
So, whilst its not for me to make a finding as to whether or not a business has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, I can take into account the Equality Act 2010 in this case, given that Im 
satisfied its relevant law here. Having done so, Im satisfied that Virgin havent acted unfairly 
and have offered Mr B viable alternatives considering the way he operates his account. So, I 
dont find Virgin have acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to send any additional comments or evidence they had before reaching 
a final decision. Mr B responded agreeing with my provisional findings - and Id like to thank 
Mr B for his comments.
Virgin responded disagreeing with my provisional decision. They said:
That the time taken to establish that Mr B had an incompatible phone wasnt because 
of their actions.
That theyve already paid Mr B just under £1,000 of goodwill payments following 
several complaints raised by Mr B, in acknowledgement of the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.Explanation as to the alternative contact methods and confirmation that Mr B has 
used some of these methods previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin have provided an explanation of how all the contact methods and account access 
processes work. Theyve also been able to indicate which methods Mr B has used before, 
including the Interaction Voice Response. So, Im persuaded that there are ways for Mr B to 
access his accounts without the need to use the credit card banking app.
When Mr B originally contact Virgin for help with accessing the app, I wouldve expected 
them to have gone further to support Mr B considering his vulnerabilities. The call hander 
wouldve been aware of this as notes to this affect had been added to Mr Bs accounts. So, 
when Mr B spoke to the call handler, I find that the call handler should have been better 
equipped in working out whether Mr B had a compatible device to use the credit card 
banking app. Virgin being the professionals wouldve been best placed to help Mr B to get to 
the bottom of whether he has a compatible phone or not. As Virgin didnt help as I wouldve 
expected them to, like asking more probing questions, it was wasted Mr Bs time and caused 
a lot of confusion. 
And for these reasons, I uphold Mr Bs complaint on this point and pay Mr B £200 
compensation for the time wasted, the misleading information as to whether his phone and 
software was compatible with the credit card banking app, and the distress and 
inconvenience and poor service hes received.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint in part. I require Clydesdale 
Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to award Mr B an additional £200 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman