DRN-3042901
The complaint
Mr R complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage it says arose under a hire-purchase agreement. Mr R says that the 
charge was made after the agreement was terminated, and disputes the basis on which 
BMWFS has applied it, expressing the view that such a charge runs contrary to relevant 
legislation.
What happened
Mr R had a car through a hire-purchase agreement from BMWFS, which he took out in 2015 
over a four-year term. The agreement set out that Mr R had the right to terminate the 
agreement at any time before the final payment was due. It included a provision that if Mr R 
did so BMWFS would be entitled to (among other things) the return of the car, any arrears 
and any other sums which had become payable under the agreement before the termination, 
including any excess mileage charge.
The basis on which the excess mileage charge would be calculated was also set out in the 
agreement. It said Mr R had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 and a total mileage 
allowance of 32,000. It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS could charge him 8.4 
pence for every mile by which he exceeded the allowance. It said that in the event he 
terminated the agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated.
Towards the end of 2018, Mr R sought to exercise his right to voluntarily terminate the hire-
purchase agreement. BMWFS wrote to Mr R saying his termination payment (which was half 
the total amount payable as specified on the hire-purchase agreement) would be zero, but 
that it would contact him separately to tell him of any other charges, such as excess mileage 
and vehicle damage. BMWFS subsequently sent Mr R an invoice for £1,622.65 in excess 
mileage charges.
Mr R objected to the excess mileage charge. He said that BMWFS was attempting to apply 
charges retrospectively to an agreement that had been terminated, and that section 100 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA1974) prohibited BMWFS from making the charge.
In response, BMWFS said that the excess mileage charge was provided for in the hire-
purchase agreement. It disputed that the charge was not in accordance with the CCA1974, 
saying that the charge was a liability that accrued before the termination. As such, BMWFS 
maintained that Mr R was liable to pay the £1,622.65.
Mr R was unhappy with BMWFSs response and referred his complaint to us. In doing so, he 
made detailed submissions setting out why he considered the charge ran contrary to the 
CCA1974. For reasons of brevity, I wont reproduce here all that he said. In summary, Mr Rs 
key points were that:
the CCA1974 affords consumers equal treatment regardless of a product and its 
features
the CCA1974 didnt offer differing levels of protection based on the product or the 
use made of it
there was no provision in the CCA1974 or the hire-purchase agreement for post-
termination amounts other than reasonable care provisions. At the point he gave 
notice of termination to BMWFS the amount he owed was zero.
In settlement of his complaint, Mr R wanted BMWFS to acknowledge that he didnt owe 
anything further under the hire-purchase agreement, to amend its systems to reflect that 
position, and to amend account information it held and had shared with other organisations. 
Mr R also sought compensation from BMWFS for wrongly pressuring him to pay money he 
didnt owe.
Our investigator was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess mileage charge 
correctly and in line with the terms of the hire-purchase agreement, that the damage costs 
werent raised unfairly, and that the charges were not inconsistent with relevant provisions of 
the CCA1974. He found that the terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of 
excess mileage and damage charges being payable on voluntary termination.
Mr R disagreed, maintaining his original objections. The complaint has been passed to me 
for review and determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr R that Ive read his original complaint letter and all his further 
submissions in full. Having done so, Im conscious how strongly he feels about what he 
believes are protections afforded to him by the CCA1974. However, I dont entirely agree 
with the arguments he puts forward in this respect. I think it would be helpful in 
understanding the context of my findings if I were to explain my thoughts a little further.
Mr Rs arrangements with BMWFS were governed by a number of factors. The contract 
between the parties set out the terms on which they agreed to do business. That agreement 
is regulated by the CCA1974 and by the provisions in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), both of which provide a layer of protection to 
consumers to ensure fair treatment.
Where the contract runs contrary to those regulatory provisions, the latter will take 
precedence over the contractual terms. But that doesnt mean the parties cannot agree 
certain terms between themselves, as long as they dont affect the consumers rights. And 
the absence of a particular provision in the CCA1974 doesnt mean a contractual term is 
invalid, as Mr R appears to be suggesting in his complaint submissions.
The CCA1974 provisions
The CCA1974 contains provisions relating to rights consumers have to voluntary terminate 
their hire-purchase agreements and the liabilities that might be due before and upon 
termination. 
Of particular relevance in this case are sections 99 and 100 of the CCA1974. Section 99 
sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire-purchase agreement early, and includes 
provision for liabilities that have arisen before termination. It says that any liabilities that the 
consumer accrued prior to termination are not to be affected by the termination. Section 100 
sets out the consumers liabilities that arise on termination. It includes the provision that on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of the agreement. 
Total price is defined in section 189 as the total sum payable under the hire-purchase 
agreement.
Mr Rs hire-purchase agreement set out that his obligation towards any excess mileage 
charge would accrue immediately prior to termination. On this basis, it clearly falls into  
and is not inconsistent with  the provisions of section 99. I see no reason to say that section 
100 negates the provision in section 99. In my view, the sections deal with discrete liabilities 
 those arising before termination and those arising upon termination.
So even if the excess mileage charge was caught by section 100 as part of the total sum 
payable, this would be in addition to it being a liability arising under section 99 and not in 
place thereof. As the investigator set out in his assessment calculations, the effect is simply 
that Mr Rs liability immediately before termination  the £1,622.65 excess mileage charge  
is not any greater because of his liability upon termination.
Reasonable care
In its response to Mr R, BMWFS expressed the view that section 100(4) of the CCA1974 
supported its right to charge for excess mileage, based on the provision relating to a failure 
by the debtor to take reasonable care of goods. BMWFSs position was that, given the 
impact higher mileage could have on a cars resale value, the mileage allowance was a fair 
measure of what would constitute reasonable care. Mr R has challenged this position. He 
considers it unreasonable, not least because the mileage in question was within tolerances 
set out in the car warranty.
I dont find BMWFSs argument in this respect to be particularly persuasive. Mr R makes 
what I think are some fair points, including the fact that reasonable care is already taken into 
account when reviewing the condition of the car and its return being subject to British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines on fair wear and tear. Im not 
persuaded BMWFS can fairly rely on this provision to support its claim, though given my 
other findings I dont consider it makes a material difference to the complaint outcome.
The contractual position
As long as Mr R made his monthly payments to BMWFS, the hire-purchase agreement 
allowed him use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for a final lump sum 
payment, though he didnt exercise this option.
While Mr R was entitled to use the car, he agreed that use would be subject to certain 
obligations, such as maintaining and taking care of the car. One of the other things Mr R 
agreed with BMWFS was that he would pay an additional amount based on the use he made 
of the car over and above a specified mileage (annual, and for the duration of the 
agreement).
Mr R exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. He wasnt required to pay 
anything to do so, as hed already paid more than half the total amount payable specified in 
the agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £1,622.65 that BMWFS 
applied. 
In some instances, voluntary termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without 
having to pay anything more than the amount specified as the total amount payable on the 
hire-purchase agreement. In Mr Rs case, hed already paid more than this through his 
monthly payments. But as Ive noted, Mr R had agreed with BMWFS that his liability would also include an amount to reflect the mileage he had undertaken, in the event that it 
exceeded the figures the parties had agreed. While the amount could only become an 
identifiable cost upon termination, it was a contingent obligation that Mr R accepted when he 
entered into the agreement. If Mr R didnt want to be bound by that term, he was at liberty 
not to take out the agreement.
Is the charge accurate?
Ive no reason to think that BMWFS calculated the excess mileage charge incorrectly. It 
appears to me to be entirely consistent with the agreement and the mileage recorded on the 
cars odometer. Im satisfied the wording of the agreement is sufficiently clear that Mr R 
ought reasonably to have been aware of the circumstances in which he might incur this 
charge.
Summary
Having considered matters very carefully, I dont consider Mr Rs hire-purchase agreement 
or the provisions for the excess mileage charge to be inconsistent with the relevant law or 
regulations. The agreement is clear and not misleading in respect of the charge for excess 
mileage, and the circumstances in which this might apply. Im satisfied the excess mileage 
charge is a liability that accrued prior to termination and can be applied in addition to any 
other liabilities that arise upon termination. It follows that Ive no reason to conclude BMWFS 
has acted unfairly in holding Mr R liable to pay the excess mileage charge.
Mr R says that BMWFS is unfairly reporting arrears on his credit file in relation to his 
agreement. However, as Mr R hasnt paid all the sums which fell due when he terminated 
the agreement early, I cant reasonably say that what BMWFS is reporting is either 
inaccurate, unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman