DRN-1408582
 
The complaint
Miss F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) as part of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP).
What happened
Miss F took out a mortgage in 2004 which was set up without PPI.
In 2005, Miss F took out TMPP cover to protect her mortgage repayments in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Miss F was unhappy with Halifaxs response when she complained about the way it sold her 
PPI, so she brought her complaint to us.
We investigated how the PPI was sold to Miss F. Our adjudicator didnt recommend 
upholding her complaint.  
Miss F disagreed with our adjudicator. Her main complaints are that she doesnt recall PPI 
being mentioned. Miss F told us that she wouldnt have requested it and she wasnt given 
any policy details. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Ideally Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. Halifax couldnt provide all the documents from 
the time of sale. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, 
given how long ago this sale happened, that all the paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt 
expect Halifax or Miss F to have kept this. 
Halifaxs records suggest PPI was sold to her in one of its branches  and thats what Miss F 
says too. I cant know exactly what was discussed about it, if anything, when Miss F 
arranged the cover. After so long, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect her to recall exactly 
what was said at the time. This means that what Miss F says isnt enough on its own for me 
to be able to uphold her complaint. I must look at all the available information and take into 
account the wider circumstances. I have to be impartial and decide what I think is most likely 
to have happened.  I think that Halifax made Miss F aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it 
out. I say this because shed had her mortgage for some time without PPI  so I think shed 
have known it was up to her to choose if she wanted to add it to her account. 
 
This service has seen examples of various forms Halifax used to sell the TMPP to customers 
who took out PPI in a Halifax branch around the time Miss F did. We think the TMPP 
paperwork wouldve made it clear to customers that it was up to them to choose if they 
wanted PPI. Ive no clear reason to think that Halifax wouldnt have followed its normal sales 
process here. So I think its likely that PPI was explained recommended for Miss F. 
And it looks as if Miss F must have decided she wanted PPI because following her meeting 
at the branch, Halifax then sent her paperwork confirming shed been accepted for the cover 
shed applied for, and saying: Thank you for choosing our Halifax Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP).
This clearly shows that Miss F had taken out cover to protect her mortgage repayments 
along with life and critical illness cover. 
The welcome pack included a page headed: Important Information which made it clear 
that the cover was optional. And a cancellation form was included for her to use if she 
decided she didn't after all want to take out this cover.
 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Miss 
Fs home couldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent paid in full and on time - 
and she alone was responsible for making the monthly repayments. So, I can see why she 
mightve felt PPI was useful to have at the time. 
It seems to me likely that Miss F was persuaded of the benefits of protecting her mortgage 
monthly repayments from that point on and she decided to buy the PPI. On balance, I cant 
fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that Miss F didnt choose to have it. 
Halifax says it recommended PPI to Miss F. If a financial business makes a recommendation 
about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable 
as well as giving important policy information in a clear way. 
It looks like PPI was suitable for Miss F based on what Ive seen of her circumstances when 
the policy was sold. 
She was eligible for the cover. PPI couldve protected Miss F if she was disabled or too sick 
to work as well as providing cover if Miss F lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
The policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim  so this gave Miss F significantly 
better cover than she wouldve had if she was only able to rely on getting statutory sick pay. 
And she told us that she had no other way of making the monthly repayments if she wasnt 
working. 
Miss F couldve made repeated claims under the policy. So PPI gave her long term 
protection for her mortgage. 
Having PPI meant Miss F could be sure she would be able to make her mortgage monthly 
repayments even if she couldnt work. I think this couldve been an important consideration at the time for Miss F  even if shes now forgotten this. And I think PPI was suitable for her, 
looking at what I know about her circumstances at the time.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in Miss 
Fs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected her decision to take it out.
I dont know if the cost and benefits of the PPI were made clear to Miss F when she bought 
the policy. But she chose to take out the cover when she didnt have to  including the extra 
benefit she took out over and above the amount needed to cover her mortgage monthly 
repayments. And the costs were clearly set out in the welcome letter Halifax sent her  so 
she could see what each part of the cover would cost her and it looks like she wanted PPI at 
the time and was happy to pay for it. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Miss F still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed, as it gave 
her useful protection in her particular situation. I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped Miss F buying PPI. So I dont find she has lost out as a result of anything Halifax 
may have done wrong during the sales process.
Ive taken into account Miss Fs comments, including what shes said about the way Halifax 
dealt with other PPI complaints shes made. But each case is looked at on its own merits 
and I am concerned here just with her complaint about the PPI sold to protect this mortgage. 
So, these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman