DRN-4080598
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Starling Bank Limited added a marker about him at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr Q says he was paid £300 into his Starling Bank account on 29 June 2022 by a family 
member. He was then told that the payment was disputed. He says that the family member 
had repaid money owed to him and was going to retract the claim as this was a mistake. He 
is unhappy that his account was closed, and the marker was added.
Starling Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It received a report that this money had been 
obtained fraudulently. It had been withdrawn from Mr Qs account. It has asked him about 
the payment on 4 July 2022 and for evidence about it. Starling Bank told Mr Q that the 
sender would need to retract the claim with their bank. Based on what Mr Q told it checks 
had been made with the sending bank and showed that no retraction had been made. So, it 
added the marker and closed Mr Qs account.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr Q had informed Starling 
Bank that the dispute had been withdrawn on 4 July 2022. Although he had provided what 
he says was a screenshot of an online conversation with the sender there was no evidence 
to show that the sender had actually withdrawn the claim. And Mr Q, who is now represented 
in this complaint, has since said that the sender couldnt withdraw the claim because their 
account had been closed. So, it wasnt clear what had happened. After she issued her view 
on the complaint the representative had then provided a letter it said was from the sender 
retracting the claim. She said it would have been helpful to see evidence that this had gone 
to the sending bank. And she still thought that Starling Bank had acted reasonably.
Mr Q didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. His representative said that it 
wanted to know what proof it could provide that the letter was submitted to the sending bank. 
It said that proof of posting of this the first time hadnt been kept safe but showed it had been 
sent by recorded delivery on 9 May 2023. And that it believed that the benefit of the doubt 
has to be given to Mr Q because of his vulnerable situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution, and we arent a court and so dont take 
evidence on oath and cross examine witnesses. If Mr Q doesnt accept my decision he 
remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Starling Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I can see that Mr Q provided a letter of authority to his representative dated 6 January 2023 
and that the representative pursued a complaint on his behalf. Starling Bank issued final 
responses on both 30 January and 2 February 2023, and it said that the closure of the 
senders bank account wouldnt prevent that bank retracting a claim. I note that the 
representative had referred to the potential of getting a witness statement and also 
mentioned that on the complaint form for this service. 
The letter that Mr Q says is from the sender to their bank doesnt appear to be dated or to 
provide that persons bank details. It doesnt comment on why the claim was either made or 
retracted. I know that our adjudicator said that it would have been helpful to have some 
proof of sending. Ive seen that has been done very recently.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the sending bank hasnt confirmed that the claim was 
retracted. Starling Bank has made clear that it would want to see this. It gave Mr Q the 
opportunity to demonstrate that at the time of the payment and when he made his 
complaint. He didnt do so or show he was entitled to this money. I think he is fairly 
responsible for the activity on his bank account and especially as he says he had a basis to 
receive these funds and also has as Starling Bank stated used the money. 
Starling Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr Q received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Starling Bank was fair to apply the marker, 
based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Ive reviewed Mr Qs account of events and the evidence he has provided, and I think hes 
had a reasonable opportunity including during the investigation of this complaint to provide 
this. Im satisfied that Starling Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be 
recorded. In coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr Q received funds into his account that remain reported as fraudulently obtained.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Starling Bank had grounds to believe that Mr Q had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.In light of this I cant see it was unreasonable for it also to close his account under its terms 
and conditions. I appreciate what is said about Mr Qs position and the impact of the 
marker and that he will be disappointed by this outcome.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman