DRN-4064283
The complaint
Mr O is complaining that U K Insurance Limited has declined a claim he made on his 
commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2022 Mr O contacted UKI to say his property had been damaged as a result of 
an escape of water in his neighbours flat. And he said he wanted to claim for the damage on 
his commercial property insurance policy. UKI declined Mr Os claim as it said the property 
had been unoccupied for more than 60 days and it said there was no cover for escape of 
water in those circumstances. Mr O didnt think this was fair as he said hed advised his 
broker that the property was unoccupied before the policy started.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think it was unfair for UKI to decline 
the claim given the property was unoccupied and he said, if Mr O was concerned about the 
sale of the policy, hed need to raise this with his broker.
Mr O still didnt think this was fair as he said his broker did tell UKI his property was 
unoccupied and he paid an increased premium as a result of this. So he didnt think it was 
fair for UKI to then not cover the claim. As Mr O didnt agree with the investigator, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint.
Mr O thinks its unfair UKI has declined his claim due to the property being unoccupied 
because he explained this was the case when the policy renewed. So, in essence, I need to 
consider:
1. Was it fair for UKI to decline the claim; and, if so
2. Was the policy mis-sold to Mr O?
Decision to decline the claim
Mr O was claiming for damage to his property arising from an escape of water. Regarding 
this, the terms of the policy say the policy covers:
Escape of Water from any tank, apparatus or pipe or escape of oil from any oil-fired heating 
installation, excluding Damage:
a. caused by water discharged or leaking, from any automatic sprinkler installations;
b. when the Premises are Vacant or Disused; or
c. from any portable oil-fired heating installation.
Vacant or Disused is defined as Buildings or any part thereof that have become 
unoccupied, untenanted or which have not been actively used for a period of more than 60 
consecutive days.
Theres no dispute that the property was unoccupied so the strict interpretation of the clause 
means the claim isnt covered. But Ive also thought about whether this was fair. Generally, 
in thinking about this Ive thought about whether UKIs potential liability has increased 
because of the leak. 
Mr O has said that he discovered the damage when he did his weekly check on the property. 
And, when he discovered the damage, he arranged to have the water turned off in his 
neighbours flat. But the inference from this has to be that the leak continued until the 
damage was discovered. This is precisely why insurers dont want to cover escape of water 
claims where the property is unoccupied as the damage may become more significant if it 
goes undetected for a period of time. I also note the comments Mr O has made about the 
challenges he faced in getting the leak isolated. But, ultimately, I cant say that the fact the 
property was unoccupied hasnt had any impact on UKIs potential liability on the claim. 
So, it follows, that I cant say it was unfair for UKI to say the claim wasnt covered under the 
terms of the policy.
Was the policy mis-sold?
When the policy renewed, Mr O explained to his broker that the property was unoccupied. 
The broker discussed this with UKI who explained that it would allow renewal on the same 
terms as the year before  i.e. with full cover. Ive asked UKI what it would usually do where 
its informed that a property is unoccupied and its explained the cover would be limited to 
fire, lightening, explosion, earthquake and airplane cover. But its provided a fuller level of 
cover. And I can see that its clearly explained this to the broker.
I recognise Mr O feels that its unfair that UKI reduced cover due to the fact the property was 
unoccupied, but it didnt reduce cover because the property was unoccupied. Its provided 
the policy in line with normal terms and subject to standard exclusion clauses. I should set 
out that most, if not all, buildings insurance policies will limit liability for escape of water 
where a property is unoccupied for the reasons I set out above. So UKIs actions are in line 
with standard industry practice. Ultimately I havent seen anything to show that UKI has 
acted unfairly in this matter.
If Mr O feels the policy limitations werent explained to him, hell need to raise this with his 
broker as it was the brokers responsibility to highlight these terms. And I cant hold UKI 
responsible for the actions of the broker.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman