DRN-3940895
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Allianz Insurance Plcs decision to reject his claim under a Motor
Trade Select insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R agreed to swap a vehicle he owned, which Ill refer to as vehicle M, plus an additional
amount in cash, for a van. Hed found the van on a website which allows people to arrange
this sort of transaction. Mr R handed over the vehicle with its keys, plus the cash, and took
possession of the van, along with the keys. Later, when he was driving the van, he was
stopped by the Police. They told him the vehicle he was driving was a cloned vehicle, which
meant it was a stolen vehicle with a false number plate matching a genuine vehicle.
Mr R made a claim under his policy for the theft of vehicle M. Allianz investigated the claim
and then turned it down. This was on the basis that vehicle M had not been stolen and there
was no other section of the policy that covered its loss. Mr R complained to Allianz, but they
said they were right to reject his claim.
Mr R asked us to consider his complaint about Allianz. One of our investigators did this and
said Allianz were entitled to turn down Mr Rs claim.
Mr R asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said he wasnt aware that his policy
didnt cover the type of loss hed claimed for and he thought that the policy might have been 
mis-sold.
I issued a Provisional Decision on 11 January 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy provides cover for the events set out in it. One of these is the theft of vehicles
insured under the policy whilst away from the insured premises. This comes under Section 2
of the policy entitled Road Risks. And the vehicle Mr R exchanged was insured under this
section of the policy at the time he exchanged it. The policy defines theft as follows:
The Term Theft used in Section 2 - Motor Vehicle Road Risks shall include the offence of
taking a motor vehicle or other conveyance without authority as defined in Section 12 of
the Theft Act 1968.
Section 12 of the Theft Act 1968 states the following:
12 Taking motor vehicle or other conveyance without authority.
(1 )Subject to subsections (5) and (6) below, a person shall be guilty of an offence if, without
having the consent of the owner or other lawful authority, he takes any conveyance for his
own or anothers use or, knowing that any conveyance has been taken without such
authority, drives it or allows himself to be carried in or on it.
The person who took vehicle M took it with Mr Rs consent. But he gained this consent under
false pretences. And it is clear he provided a stolen vehicle to cover what he was meant to
pay in consideration for Mr Rs vehicle. I think this means it is fair and reasonable to treat
this as the theft of vehicle M that was, at the time, insured under Mr Rs policy. I say this
because it can be said that  in effect  Mr R didnt really give his proper consent to the
person who took the vehicle. And the person had no other lawful authority to take it. I
appreciate it is arguable whether it was a theft according to the Theft Act 1968, but I think for
the purposes of his claim Allianz should have treated it as one.
There is an exclusion for theft by deception in Mr Rs policy, but this only applies to claims
under Section 1 of the policy entitled Material Damage. And Section 1 only covers property
belonging to Mr R whilst it is at the premises listed in the schedule. This means Mr R does
not have a valid claim under this section anyway. But, as Ive said, I think he does have a
valid claim under Section 2.
This means I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Rs complaint is for Allianz to settle
his claim in accordance with the claim settlement terms in his policy. As Mr R has been
without the funds due to him, I also think it is fair and reasonable for Allianz to pay interest
on the amount due at 8% per annum simple from one month after Mr R made his claim to
the date of actual payment. The one month is to recognise the fact Allianz would always
have needed a period to investigate the claim. 
I gave both parties until 25 January 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. 
Mr R responded and asked whether he had a valid claim under his policy for the cash he 
handed over for the van, along with vehicle M. He also asked whether he had a valid claim 
for the private registration number attached to vehicle M, as hed been unable to get this 
back after hed realised the van hed bought was stolen. 
I emailed Mr R and told him that I didnt think he had a valid claim for the cash he handed 
over, due to a theft by deception exclusion under Section 1 of his policy. I also told him that I 
didnt think the loss of his registration was covered by his policy. He has accepted my view 
on these issues. 
Allianz asked for an extension to provide further comments, which I allowed. Theyve now 
provided further comments. Theyve said there is judicial guidance as to the legal 
interpretation of consent within Section 12 of the Theft Act 1968. In their view, there has 
not been a taking without consent to satisfy this section and theyve cited a case considered 
in the Queens Bench Division of the High Court  Whittaker and Another v Campbell [1984] 
Q.B. 318. The Court decided in this case that where goods were obtained from the owner by 
fraud, but with the owners consent, that fraud did not vitiate (impair the legal validity) of the 
consent that had been given. Allianz thinks that applying this legal authority shows that 
where there is apparent consent to the taking, which was obtained by fraud, the position in 
law is that this will not necessarily constitute taking without consent as defined under Section 
12. 
In view of this Allianz feels that there has been no theft to satisfy the wording of Section 12. 
In which case  in their opinion - the policy does not respond to the event claimed for. As far 
as they are concerned legal consent was provided and no offence was committed. By no 
offence, I assume they mean the offence of theft. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Allianzs comments and studied the case it has cited, but it does not change 
my view on what the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Rs complaint is. 
I accept that in law the loss Mr R has claimed for may not constitute a theft. And, I did say in 
my provisional decision this was arguable. However, whilst I have to take the law into 
account, I must decide what  in my opinion - is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I have taken into account the relevant law to this complaint, including the case Allianz have 
cited. But it remains my view that  whilst the event Mr R claimed for may not be a theft 
according to Section 12 of The Theft Act 1968, the fair and reasonable outcome to his 
complaint is for it to be treated as if it were a theft and for his claim to be settled. This is 
because  whilst the legal position is that his car was obtained by consent and the fact he 
only provided it due to fraud does not vitiate it, Mr R still lost his vehicle due to 
circumstances outside his control. And to all intents and purposes, it was stolen from him, 
albeit as a result of a fraudulent act or acts. I appreciate that on a strict interpretation Mr Rs 
policy only responds where there has been a theft as defined by the Theft Act 1968. But I 
think the position Mr R has found himself in is fairly unusual and something many people 
would view as a theft. I say this as he handed over a valuable asset expecting to get another 
in return, but ended up with nothing. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I still consider the fair and 
reasonable outcome to Mr Rs complaint is for Allianz to settle his claim in accordance with 
the claims settlement terms in his policy. I also consider they should pay interest on the 
amount due to Mr R at 8% per annum simple1. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Rs complaint and order Allianz Insurance Plc to do what Ive set out above in the 
Putting Things Right section.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Allianz must tell Mr R if they have made a deduction for income tax. And, if they have, how 
much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax deduction certificate for Mr R if asked 
to do so. This will allow Mr R to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue & Customs 
(HMRC) if appropriate.