DRN-1651748
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Lloyds Bank PLC  trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester plc (Lloyds) - 
mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy alongside a further advance against their mortgage in 
2000. They paid a monthly amount for the policy and the benefits of the PPI were split 
evenly between them both.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
assessment, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds should have made it clear to Mr and Mrs L that they had a choice in buying the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs L say they werent aware the policy had been added to their borrowing. Lloyds 
has said Mr and Mrs L would have been aware they had a choice about buying it. And its 
provided us with copies of the PPI documents Mr and Mrs L completed at the time. 
There is a separate proposal form for the PPI which has been completed and Mr and Mrs L 
have also signed. This leads me to think that there was a discussion around the policy and 
Mr and Mrs L has selected the level of cover which best suited their circumstances at the 
time. And based on what I know about how Lloyds sold policies like this at the time I think 
the optional nature would have been made clear. 
There is also a copy of the covering letter sent to Mr and Mrs L at this time, which explains 
that the policy can be cancelled in 30 days if they have changed their minds. 
So, I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs L aware that they had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and they chose to take it  although I can understand why they cant 
remember this now. 
 
 
Mr and Mrs L says they dont remember if Lloyds recommended the PPI to them. Lloyds has 
told us this was a branch sale and that it provided advice during applications that took place in branch during this period. If Lloyds did advise Mr and Mrs L to take the policy, it had to 
make sure the policy was right for them. From what Ive seen, it seems to have been suitable 
for them based on their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
They both met the policys requirements so were eligible for it.
Mr and Mrs L say they would have received generous sick pay and 
redundancy benefits from their employers. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI 
would have paid their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if Mr and Mrs L was 
unable to work due to being too unwell or if they became unemployed. The policy 
would have paid out alongside Mr and Mrs Ls employee benefits. This would have 
meant they could have used their employee benefits to pay for other essential costs. 
It doesnt look like there was anything about Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances that 
would have made it difficult for either of them to claim. For example, they didnt have 
any unusual working patterns or an existing medical condition. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, I think Lloyds could have explained the cost of 
the policy better than it did. But even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs L would still have 
bought it. Mr and Mrs L were taking on a large financial commitment secured against 
their home. Although I know they had previously taken on additional advances 
without taking PPI, the advance taken in 2000 was the largest amount they had 
borrowed in addition to their initial mortgage. So, I think its likely they would have 
wanted the security of knowing the repayments were covered if either of them were 
too sick to work or became unemployed. And  from what Ive seen  it doesnt 
look like the policy was unaffordable for them.  
 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them, Lloyds shouldve taken reasonable steps 
to point out the main things the policy didnt cover to Mr and Mrs L. I dont know if Lloyds did 
point these things out. But Ive explained why I think the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs L. And 
I dont think clearer information would have changed their decision. I think they still would 
have bought it. I say this for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for them. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs L have lost out as a result of 
anything Lloyds mightve done wrong. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs L some of the commission 
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling, and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 these rules dont apply. So, 
Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs L paid for the PPI they had 
with that mortgage.
I know Mr and Mrs L feel strongly about this and will be disappointed by this outcome. They 
have put time and effort into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points 
theyve raised. But these points dont change my decision. 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionI don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman