DRN-2765903
The complaint
Miss H complains that Nationwide Building Society irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit 
card account and increased the credit limit which was unaffordable.
What happened
Miss H says Nationwide shouldnt have allowed her to open her credit card account and 
shouldnt have increased her credit limit. She says the lending was unaffordable and the 
lending decision irresponsible. Miss H would like all interest and charges refunded and any 
adverse information removed from her credit file. She would also like interest added to any 
refund. Miss H says she was in financial difficulties and says she was unaware she could 
bring a complaint to us.
Nationwide says it doesnt give us permission to look at parts of this complaint that took 
place more than six years before Miss H brought her complaint- which are events before 
April 2013. It says the account was opened in 2005 and various credit limit increases took 
place between 2013 and 2015 all of which were appropriately considered. Nationwide says 
Miss H managed her account appropriately for some years after the last increase and made 
regular payments and had money in other accounts. It says it spoke to Miss H before 
approving the increases.
Miss H brought her complaint to us and our investigator asked Miss H for further information 
about her complaint and asked for her credit file as well as details of why she says she was 
in financial difficulties. The investigator didnt receive that information and thought 
Nationwide had carried out appropriate checks before increasing the credit limit. The 
investigator didnt think we could look at events before April 2013 and thought Miss H 
managed her account appropriately for some time after the last credit limit increase.
Miss H doesnt accept that view.
I asked Miss H for further information and for the information she was asked to provide. I 
also asked her to let me know if she wished an ombudsman decision on both the jurisdiction 
element of her complaint and the credit limit increases complaint, but she hasnt replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We cant consider every complaint that is brought to us and operate under a set of rules 
known as DISP which are set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Those rules, as the 
investigator has explained, say we generally cant consider a complaint brought to us more 
than six years after the event complained of, or if later, three years after a complainant knew 
or ought reasonably to have realised, they had cause to complain.
Miss Hs account was opened in 2005 and she brought her complaint to us in 2019. Im 
satisfied that is more than six years after the event she complains about and so Im satisfied 
we cant consider Miss Hs complaint about events before April 2013 under the first part of 
our rules and can see that Nationwide doesnt give us permission to look at that part of the 
complaint.
Miss H hasnt told us why she didnt complain to Nationwide about these matters before she 
did and has told us she was unaware she could complain to us. I think Miss H ought 
reasonable to have known at the time of the lending or shortly afterwards that it was 
potentially unaffordable and so I dont think the second part of our rules provide a longer 
period for bring this complaint.
I appreciate Miss H hasnt told us what her view was on the investigators view about 
jurisdiction and so I make it clear that I dont think we can consider her complaint about 
events before April 2013. I also make clear that we can consider a complaint outside of the 
time limits if I were to consider there were exceptional reasons that prevented a complaint 
being brought in time. I dont think Miss H has told us about such reasons and I would have 
expected her to have complained to Nationwide before she did, even if she was unaware of 
this service. Im satisfied there are no exceptional reasons here that prevented a complaint 
being brought in time.
I have looked carefully at Nationwides records about the credit limit increases that took 
place after April 2013. Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on any application for credit or lending. Those checks will of course 
vary depending on the type and amount of the lending or credit. This is a complaint about 
increases to a credit limit rather than for example a mortgage and so I wouldnt have 
expected Nationwides checks to have been as detailed for that type of lending.
Having looked at Nationwides records Im satisfied that Nationwide did carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks on the credit limit increases. And was reasonably entitled to 
consider Miss Hs account management which I think was appropriate. I have not seen 
evidence at the time of the credit limit increases of any adverse information recorded about 
Miss H and I would have expected her to have provided us with a copy of her credit file if she 
maintained there was such adverse information on it. I dont think Miss H has provided any 
evidence of financial difficulties and so without it I cant fairly conclude Nationwides lending 
was unaffordable.
I can see from Nationwides records that Miss H held other accounts with it which I think on 
balance suggest any financial difficulties may have taken place some time after the credit 
limit increases.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
increasing Miss Hs credit limit. Im satisfied Miss H managed her account appropriately for 
some years after the last increase which I think provides additional evidence the increases 
were affordable at the time. It follows that I cant fairly order Nationwide to refund any 
charges or interest which I think were correctly applied in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and that part of this complaint has been 
brought too late for us to consider events before April 2013.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
David SinghOmbudsman