DRN-3205803
The complaint
Mr T and Ms W complain about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr T and Ms W booked two cruise holidays. They were due to depart on 28 
November 2020 and travel until 19 December 2020. On 6 December 2019, Mr T and Ms W 
took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker. The policy provided full cover 
between 28 November and 19 December 2020 and cancellation cover began on the day the 
policy was taken out.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, in September 2020, Mr T and Ms Ws cruise provider 
cancelled their cruises. So Mr T and Ms W made a claim on their travel insurance policy for 
the costs associated with the cancellation of their trip.
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said the circumstances of it werent covered by the 
policy terms and conditions and that Mr T and Ms W hadnt opted to take out additional 
cover which might have provided cover for their circumstances. And it said that it was the 
cruise providers responsibility to refund Mr T and Ms Ws cancellation costs.
Mr T and Ms W were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into 
their complaint. While the complaint was ongoing, they let us know that the cruise provider 
had offered them the chance to rebook their holiday. But they also stated that they felt Great 
Lakes should refund the cost of their policy premium.
Our investigator thought it had been fair for Great Lakes to turn down the claim. She thought 
that not only were the circumstances of the claim not covered by the policy, but that theyd 
been specifically excluded. She also felt the policy made it clear that Great Lakes would only 
cover irrecoverable costs, so she considered it had been reasonable for Great Lakes to 
require Mr T and Ms W to seek recovery of their costs from the cruise provider. 
The investigator noted though that after 17 September 2020, the date that the cruise 
provider cancelled the trips, Great Lakes bore no further risk of a claim being made under 
the policy. And it hadnt paid out any claims under the policy. So she concluded it would be 
fair for Great Lakes to offer Mr T and Ms W a pro-rata refund of their premium for the unused 
portion of their policy.
Great Lakes agreed to offer Mr T and Ms W a pro-rata refund of their policy premium, by 
way of a credit voucher, which would be valid for 36 months, would be fully transferrable and 
which could be put towards either a single or annual trip policy. The total value of the 
voucher was calculated to be £26.03.
Mr T and Ms W didnt accept Great Lakes offer. In summary, they said theyd asked to start 
the policy from the start date of the holiday, so they didnt think it was reasonable to treat 
cover as having begun from 6 December 2019.
The investigator reassessed the complaint. She explained that Great Lakes hadnt sold the 
policy to Mr T and Ms W, so it wasnt responsible for any information theyd been given at 
the time of sale. She also thought the policy contract and paperwork made it clear when 
cancellation cover would begin. So she considered it was fair for Great Lakes to treat 6 
December 2019 as the cancellation cover start date. 
In terms of the refund itself, the investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. She also explained that it is a 
fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable 
for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. And she 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because she concluded cover under the policy started on 6 December 2019 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr T and Ms W a credit voucher, which took into account the 
unused cover remaining on the policy. She didnt think the terms of the voucher were overly 
restrictive. So she didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mr T and Ms W a cash refund of 
their premium.
Mr T and Ms W disagreed. They considered the policy certificate clearly stated that cover 
began on 28 November 2020 and that if this wasnt the case, it shouldve been stated more 
clearly. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr T and Ms W, Ive decided Great Lakes 
offer is fair and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr T and Ms W that while Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and their submissions, Ive considered all theyve said and sent us very carefully. 
Its also important I make clear that this decision will only consider the actions of Great 
Lakes in handling the claim and calculating its premium refund offer. Whilst I understand Mr 
T and Ms W have told us that they asked for insurance cover to begin on the same date as 
their holiday, Great Lakes didnt sell the policy to them. The contract was taken out through a 
broker. So if Mr T and Ms W have any concerns about the way the policy was sold to them 
or the product they were sold, theyll need to firstly raise these with the broker before we can 
potentially look into them.
Did Great Lakes handle the claim fairly?
Mr T and Ms W first complained to us because Great Lakes had turned down their claim. 
However, they later told us that their cruise provider had offered them the chance to rebook 
their trips. This meant there were no longer any cancellation costs outstanding for them to 
seek to recover from Great Lakes and so I dont think I need to consider this complaint point in detail.
For the sake of completeness though, I would add that the policy terms include a list of 
General Conditions, which apply to the whole policy. This list includes the following term:
We will not pay for any costs which are recoverable elsewhere.
Most, if not all, travel insurance policies will only cover losses a policyholder cant get back 
from elsewhere  usually their airline or travel/accommodation provider. And in this case, the 
policy also excludes cancellation claims where a travel provider has failed to provide the 
booked service and instead states that claims in this event should be directed to the 
provider. Here, theres no dispute that the cruise provider cancelled Mr T and Ms Ws 
cruises.
So I think Great Lakes acted reasonably and in line with its policy terms in directing Mr T and 
Ms W to seek recovery of their cancellation costs from the cruise provider. And Im pleased 
to note that Mr T and Ms W were able to rebook their trips and effectively then recover their 
costs through the cruise provider. Overall, I find that Great Lakes handled the claim fairly.
Has Great Lakes calculated the premium refund fairly?
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations, and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
Its clear Mr T and Ms W feel strongly that its unfair for Great Lakes to treat cover under the 
policy as beginning on the day they purchased it, 6 December 2019, rather than their trip 
start date of 28 November 2020. Ive considered this carefully.
The policy terms and conditions, which form the basis of the contract between Mr T and Ms 
W, set out when cover will apply under the Period of Cover section. This says:
Cover under Section 1 (Cancellation) starts at the time you book the trip or pay the 
insurance premium, whichever is later.
Mr T and Ms Ws policy schedule also sets out the relevant cover dates. I acknowledge that 
this says: Cover Start Date 28/11/20 and Cover End Date: 19/12/20. However, immediately 
underneath these dates, the schedule says:
Cancellation cover for a single trip policy will begin immediately after booking your policy.
In my view then, both the policy terms and Mr T and Ms Ws specific schedule make it clear 
that cover begins under the policy when the premium is paid/the policy is purchased. In this 
case, that date was 6 December 2019. This means that Great Lakes was covering the risk of 
Mr T and Ms W making a claim from that date until the date the cruise provider cancelled the 
cruises.
I note too that in the complaint form Mr T and Ms W sent to us, which detailed their 
complaint, that theyve said: We took out an insurance policy on 06 December 2019 to cover 
us for any cancellation of our holiday which would have been on 28th November 2020. 
They continued: The policy started the date we took it out. 
The claim was made in September 2020, when the cruises were cancelled, which was over 
two months before their cruises were due to take place. So I think it appears that Mr T and Ms W did have at least some awareness that Great Lakes was covering them against the 
risk of cancellation before they were due to depart on their trip. 
Im satisfied then that Great Lakes is fairly, reasonably and contractually entitled to treat 
cancellation cover as starting on 6 December 2019 and to use this date as the cover start 
date when calculating Mr T and Ms Ws premium refund.
Next, Ive considered the relevant policy terms and conditions, which set out Mr T and Ms 
Ws cancellation rights. These say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay 
any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, 
Mr T and Ms Ws cooling-off period ended on 20 December 2019. But the holidays werent 
cancelled until 17 September 2020. So the effective cancellation date was substantially 
outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to 
use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic to be exceptional circumstances. I think 
this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the policyholder  
such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I dont think the terms and 
conditions of Mr T and Ms Ws contract with Great Lakes entitle them to any refund of 
premiums.  
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint 
(as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case I think Great Lakes offer of a credit voucher for 
the unused portion of Mr T and Ms Ws policy is fair and reasonable. And given the 
cancellation of the trips took place on 17 September 2020, I think its fair that this date is 
used to calculate the refund on the facts of this case 
 
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for the core policy for a 380 day period if the trips hadnt 
been cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 94 days of cover, after the 
cruises were cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mr T and Ms W 
making a claim after that point. 
Great Lakes has agreed to calculate the refund by dividing the actual price Mr T and Ms W 
paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk. Im 
satisfied that this leads to a fair outcome.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case. I say that first because the voucher will be valid for three years; is fully transferrable 
and can be put towards either a single or annual policy. Given Mr T and Ms W told us they 
rebooked their cruises, it also seems that they do plan to travel in the future. So I think its 
likely they will be in a position to put the voucher towards another policy in the future should they wish to do so. This means I dont think that the terms of the voucher are overly 
restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr T and Ms W will be disappointed in my 
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a full refund of their premiums and Im 
satisfied its current offer is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes has made a fair offer 
to settle Mr T and Ms Ws complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to calculate the refund due to Mr T and Ms W (to be paid 
by way of a credit voucher) by dividing the actual price they paid for their single trip travel 
insurance policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman