DRN-1643883
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold him a 
credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H took out the card and PPI in May 2005 via an internet application.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he wasnt aware that PPI had been applied to the credit card account. Mr H 
applied for the credit card online. From what we know of the internet process that Mr H 
would have had to follow, there was a page about PPI and Mr H would have had to click on 
a yes or no button to either request or decline the PPI. The record that M&S has of Mr Hs 
application shows that he clicked the yes option. 
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Hs recollection of 
events has faded. Based on the available evidence, I think its more likely than not that Mr H 
decided to take out the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers 
doing so.
M&S didnt advise Mr H to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ask him any questions about 
his circumstances or ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr H.
M&S did need to provide Mr H with enough information about the policy for him to be able to 
make an informed decision about whether or not it was right for him. I can see from the 
internet screenshots that M&S did provide some basic information about the benefits of the 
policy. I consider that Mr H would have known something about the policy  that it would 
cover his card repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think hed have decided to take it out without knowing 
anything at all about it.
Mr Hs employer would have given him three months full pay if hed been off work sick. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr H 
would have received full pay for. 
Mr H has said that he had savings of around £20,000 at the time. He has provided copies of 
statements from his savings account. There is one that covers the 2004/05 period. But this shows that he had £12.34 in savings in May 2005. He did put £10,000 into the account in 
July 2005 but had withdrawn all of that again within the same month. From the evidence that 
Mr H has provided, I am satisfied that he probably did have some reasonable level of 
savings, However, having the policy would have allowed him to retain these or use them to 
cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. So overall, I consider that Mr 
H had a need for the cover and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that M&S didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So hes no worse off as 
a result of anything M&S may have done wrong, so theres nothing that M&S needs to do to 
put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman