DRN-3702816
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around May 2015, Mr S and his late father were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at his home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase 
the system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In April 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced at least once during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500).
Furthermore, P had not explained that the system would deteriorate over time and become 
less efficient.
The CMC also said that Mr S had been recovering from a stroke and so his memory was 
impaired. His father did not speak much English, and Mr S had not been able to translate the 
sales documents to him quickly enough to keep up during the meeting. The sales 
presentation had not been personalised, and the only personalised quote which was 
produced had been sent to Mr S after the meeting and after he signed the loan agreement.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr S or that his health issues had impaired his understanding of the sales 
pitch. She found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the adjudicator had given too much weight to Ps quote;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law, yet the 
adjudicator appeared to have put the onus on Mr S to discover that the system would 
not be self-funding by reading the quote;
it was not credible to suggest that Mr S would have agreed to buy the system unless 
he had been told that it would pay for itself;
as Mr S was an eye-witness to what happened at the sales meeting, and the 
salesmans direct testimony had not been obtained by Shawbrook, Mr Ss evidence 
ought to be preferred.
(The CMC also raised a new point about damage caused to the roof of the property, but as 
this has not been raised with Shawbrook before, I am not dealing with that issue in this 
decision. That will have to await a new claim.)
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. Shawbrook denies that any commission was paid, and I have seen no 
evidence to the contrary, so I do not accept that it was.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and two versions of the solar quote, titled Getting Started and Your 
Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Mr Ss testimony and 
recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Both of the quotes are detailed documents that each set out key information about the 
system, the expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. I am 
satisfied that both of them were personalised for Mr S. P, via Shawbrook, has told this 
service that one of these formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr S and his father, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to him agreeing to enter into the contract. The other was sent to him 
afterwards. Mr Ss late father signed both of them.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Ss version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
I agree with the CMCs analysis of the law, which I have summarised above. If the salesman 
did mislead Mr S or his father about the system, then it would not be a defence for either P 
or Shawbrook to say that Mr S could have discovered any misrepresentations simply by 
reading the quote in his own time to find out the true position. Rather, the relevance of the 
quotes is that I do not think it is likely, on the balance of probabilities, that the salesman 
made oral representations which he knew were contradicted by the quotes at a meeting in 
which the quotes (or one of them) played a central part.
Therefore, although I have not heard directly from the salesman, I do not accept the CMCs 
submission that Mr Ss own evidence is the only evidence about what was said at the 
meeting. The quotes are also evidence about that.
Despite Mr Ss poor health, it is not in dispute that he was still able to follow what he was told 
at the meeting and was able to recall it afterwards. I accept that he was not able to translate 
everything in the quote to his father during the meeting, but Im sure he was able to do so 
after the meeting when they were sent a copy of the quote afterwards. That was after they 
had signed the loan agreement, but I dont think that matters, partly because there was a 14-
day cooling-off period, but also because, as Ive said, the quotes significance is that it is 
unlikely that the salesman talked Mr S through one of the quotes while simultaneously 
contradicting it.
FIT payments and savings
Mr S has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quotes 
that were provided by P as well as Mr Ss recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.The system analysis page of each quote sets out the estimated income Mr S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
from Getting Started from Your Personal Solar Quotation
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £461.36. The quotes both go on to look at the electricity savings Mr S 
could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are £227.11.
from Getting Started
from Your Personal Solar Quotation
When taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr S, the combined income and 
savings in year one are shown as £667.82. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
 
from Getting Started from Your Personal Solar Quotation
Since these specific figures appear in both quotes, and are identical in each, I am satisfied 
that both quotes were personalised and accurate.
The total income figure of £667.82 results in an average monthly income of £55.65. Im 
satisfied that the quotes each set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of 
£116.74. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr S was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres a section in each quote headed Repayments with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £116.74. (This is incorrect; the 
loan agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £118.57, but the difference  £1.17  is 
too small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never make 
enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about 
Mr Ss version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the 
sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph, in Your Personal Solar Quotation, which plainly 
showed that the system would not be enough to cover the loan payments.
Self-funding and system depreciation
Ill now consider whether P told Mr S that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.17 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr Ss 
father, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to their attention. On balance Im also 
satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of Your Personal Solar Quotation states in large font that it would 
take 11 years for the overall benefits that Mr S could expect to receive to match the cash 
price of the system.
I think the 11-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section of both quotes.
A later page of the quotes has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system 
over 20 years. This too shows that during year 11 the overall benefits that Mr S could expect 
to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,736.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £14,240, 
would be reached by the end of year 16.
In both quotes this table also shows, in the first column (which is titled Panel degradation), 
how the panels will reduce in efficiency year on year. This is shown as a percentage which 
reduces each year, ending in year 20 at 83.7%. Your Personal Solar Quotation also says 
(on page 3) that the 25 year warranty covers the panels for up to 90% of their original output. 
So Im satisfied that the quotes did take into account that the panels would deteriorate over 
time, and that this would have been factored into the table, and into the quotes generally. Im 
also satisfied that the quotes made this clear to Mr S.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr S that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 11 years, and for the loan in 16 years, as supported by the graph and the table 
above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider 
the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract between P and 
Mr S. Having done so, Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, at least in 
terms of energy generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr S has not seen the expected 
financial returns is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr S hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr S that the system would require 
no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did 
not tell him during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but that is not the 
same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that Your Personal Solar Quotation says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr S to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman