DRN-3817762
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) was unfair to decline 
their porting application. They say it should have told them it would decline the application at 
the outset. Mr and Mrs R ask that first direct waives or refunds the early repayment charge 
(ERC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had a mortgage with first direct. They took out a five-year fixed interest rate 
product in 2019 that included an ERC. Mr and Mrs R wanted to buy a property to move into. 
They intended to keep the security property and rent it out. In March 2022 they met with first 
directs mortgage adviser and made a porting application. 
first direct declined the porting application, saying it failed affordability checks. It said it didnt 
decline the application immediately as it wanted to consider whether it could port Mr and 
Mrs Rs mortgage, despite concerns about affordability. first direct said the application didnt 
meet criteria for a like for like port as Mr and Mrs R were taking on additional borrowing 
secured on a rental property and a new mortgage on the security property. 
Mrs R said this was unfair. In summary, she said their outgoings had reduced and their 
income had increased since they took out the mortgage with first direct. She said their 
income would increase further with the rental income. Mrs R said theyd have looked for a 
cheaper property if theyd known theyd have to pay the ERC (of about £2,000). Mrs R said 
while they could have pulled out of buying the property she didnt see why they should lose 
the property because of first direct and she didnt have the strength to start again.
Mrs R said first direct should waive the ERC as a gesture of goodwill after treating them so 
terribly.
Our investigator said first direct hadnt treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly and it was entitled to 
apply the ERC.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. Mrs R said the way first direct assessed affordability was unfair. 
She said it was wrong for first direct to assume zero rental income from the property just 
because they didnt have a tenant at that time. She said their intention was to let out the 
property but obviously couldnt do this until theyd moved out. Mrs R said it wasnt fair to 
include outgoings related to the property but not the rental income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R contacted first direct in January 2022 about porting their mortgage. The 
problems they experienced at that time are the subject of a separate complaint, and so I 
wont comment on it here except to say that their property purchase fell through.
Mr and Mrs R found another property to buy. Mrs R had an advised call with a mortgage 
adviser on 14 March 2022 to discuss porting. Ive listened to Mrs Rs call with the mortgage 
adviser and read the notes made by first directs underwriters. The adviser told Mrs R due to 
concerns about affordability first direct would only be able to port the same amount as their 
mortgage balance (or less). Mrs R said this would be fine. At the end of the call, the 
mortgage adviser said the application would be subject to sign off by the underwriters. He 
said Mrs R should hear from them in two working days. 
The underwriters said first direct couldnt port the mortgage as the application wasnt on a 
like for like basis. This was because Mr and Mrs R intended to take out additional borrowing 
for the purchase deposit secured on a buy to let property and a new mortgage on the 
security property, which they intended to let out. first direct told Mrs R the porting application 
was declined on 19 March 2022. 
Mrs R disagrees with the way first direct assessed affordability. But its first directs 
judgement to make, and Im not going to second-guess or interfere with a legitimate 
commercial decision. Other lenders may have different criteria for measuring affordability. 
Lenders dont all have to make the same decision. I dont think first direct treated Mr and 
Mrs R unfairly when it assessed and declined their porting application. 
Mrs R says first direct should have told them at the outset that it wouldnt port the mortgage. 
She says if theyd known theyd have to pay the ERC theyd have looked for a cheaper 
property. Mrs R has told us that she likes information to be clear and precise. While I 
understand this, its not always possible for a lender to know at the outset whether or not an 
application will be successful. Mrs R says she was told different things by first direct about 
the amount they could borrow, and I appreciate her frustration about that. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs R would in fact have looked for a cheaper property if theyd known 
theyd have to pay the ERC. But I dont think it would have been fair for first direct to tell Mr 
and Mrs R it wouldnt port until it had reviewed their application. first direct says it allowed 
the porting application to continue to see if it could port the mortgage despite its concerns 
about affordability. Ultimately, first direct declined the application. But this doesnt mean it 
was unfair for first direct to ask its underwriters to review it and see if porting could be 
allowed. 
first direct took five days, rather than two working days, to tell Mrs R their porting application 
was declined. This must have been frustrating when Mr and Mrs R were waiting to hear from 
first direct. I havent been provided with any information or evidence that this delay changed 
the outcome here. Mr and Mrs R successfully applied for a mortgage from another lender, 
despite the delay.
Mr and Mrs R had taken out a five-year fixed interest rate product in 2019. This included an 
ERC which was payable if they repaid the mortgage within five years. Mr and Mrs R agreed 
to this when they took out the product. The mortgage offer said first direct would consider a 
request to transfer the loan to another property (i.e. port the mortgage product). The 
mortgage offer said this was subject to its normal assessment criteria. Im sorry Mr and 
Mrs Rs porting application wasnt successful. But as I said, I dont think first direct treated Mr 
and Mrs R unfairly when it assessed and declined their porting application. 
In its final response letter, first direct said it looks to assist customers that need to move 
home but dont meet lending criteria. It says the circumstances in which it would waive an 
ERC are limited. It said this doesnt include customers who repay a mortgage so that they 
can acquire a third property.  
If Mr and Mrs R repay the mortgage during the product term, first direct is entitled under the mortgage terms and conditions to apply the ERC. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require first direct to waive or refund the ERC or pay compensation to Mr 
and Mrs R. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman