DRN-2438789
The complaint
Miss W has complained about U K Insurance Company Limiteds (UKI) actions in connection 
with her motor insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
Miss W had a policy with UKI for a number of years. In 2018 her car was damaged in an 
accident that wasn't her fault. UKI arranged for repairs and told Miss W it would reclaim its 
costs from the other drivers insurer. It told her the claim shouldnt affect her no claims 
discount (NCD) or premium.
When Miss Ws policy was due to renew she found out that the claim was still showing as 
open on a shared insurance database. UKI noted that it hadn't received the payment from 
the other drivers insurer. It took action to record the claim as non-fault on the shared 
database. Miss W then cancelled her UKI policy and complained.
UKI said the claim didn't affect the renewal premium it had quoted to Miss W. But it 
acknowledged some errors and offered Miss W £150 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. It also paid her around £82 to reimburse her for the cost of temporary 
insurance she'd taken out.
Miss W didn't think that went far enough and brought her complaint to us. I issued a 
provisional decision on 18 November 2020. For ease I've copied the relevant extract from 
my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Miss Ws made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything shes said but in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding issues following our investigator's assessment of her complaint.
Miss W thinks that because of UKIs delay in marking the claim as non-fault in 2018 the cost 
of her insurance increased in 2019. The other drivers insurer accepted fault for the accident 
and initially offered to settle the claim in August 2018. But for reasons that aren't clear the 
cheque wasn't cashed by UKI. So UKI didn't close the claim down on the shared database at 
that time.
It might help if I explain that most insurers Im aware of share claims information on a shared 
insurance database. And they often refer to claims as being fault or non-fault. But these 
terms are really a form of shorthand and might be somewhat misleading. A fault claim 
doesn't mean that the policyholder was to blame for the accident or claim, just that the 
insurer hasn't recovered its costs for settling the claim. And the shared database doesn't use 
the terms fault or non-fault. Instead it refers to NCD allowed (non-fault) or NCD 
disallowed (fault). And, generally, until an insurer has recovered their costs for settling a 
claim the shared database will show the claim as being NCD disallowed, in other words as 
a fault claim.
At the time Miss Ws policy renewed the database was showing the incident as a fault claim. 
But that doesnt mean Miss W has had to pay higher premiums as a result. It seems that 
there was an issue with the other drivers insurers payment, which meant it didn't go 
through. So, UKI hadn't updated the shared database to close the claim down. But UKI had 
already marked its internal system to show that the claim wasnt Miss Ws fault. And UKIs 
premium calculations aren't affected by non-fault incidents. That means the premium UKI 
quoted Miss W wasn't affected by any issue about how the incident was recorded on the 
shared database. So the premium it offered her in 2019 wouldn't have been any lower if 
there was no incident in 2018.
Miss W said the fault claim on the shared database did affect the premiums that other 
insurers quoted her. Shes shown us quotes she received from insurers through a 
comparison website. And, as some are quite high, she thinks the way the claim was 
recorded on the shared database must have affected those quotes. And she said she hasn't 
been able to find an affordable policy as a result. But I think thats unlikely.
In my experience, when providing quotes from information given on comparison sites, 
insurers don't usually examine a consumers claims history on the shared database at that 
point. Instead, at quote stage, most insurers I'm aware of, rely on the information the 
consumer has given when answering the questions on the comparison site. And thats 
generally an automated process. So those insurers wouldn't - at that stage - look at the 
shared database to see if that information is accurate. Thats usually something that insurers 
only do once theyve agreed to sell the consumer a policy and are looking to validate its 
details. So I think its unlikely that any information on the database caused Miss Ws 
premiums to increase when she was looking for quotes on the comparison site. Thats 
because, the quotes the comparison site generated, were based solely on the information 
shed given. So UKIs delay in marking the database as NCD allowed isn't the reason 
Miss W couldn't find affordable quotes at that time.
I also think its worth pointing out that while UKI has confirmed that the non-fault claim hasnt 
affected the premium it quoted, thats not the case for all insurers. I'm aware most insurers 
will also factor in non-fault claims when calculating a premium. That is they see drivers with 
recent non-fault claims as being a higher risk than drivers without such claims. And they 
reflect that in the premiums they charge. And while, generally, they might not consider that a 
non-fault incident would increase a consumers risk by as much as a fault claim, the non-
fault incident will still cause the premium to rise for many other insurers. That could explain 
why Miss W s quotes were higher than she might have expected. So I don't think that any 
delay by UKI in marking the shared database as NCD allowed is likely to have been the 
factor that has affected Mis Ws ability to find affordable insurance quotes while on 
comparison websites.
That said, while UKI has marked the incident as non-fault (NCD allowed) on the shared 
database, I'm aware that is still hasn't actually recovered its costs and so hasn't yet closed 
the claim down on the database. UKI did recognise some of its delay initially when it paid 
Miss W £150 compensation and refunded her £82 for a temporary policy she bought. 
Miss W doesnt think thats enough and she feels that £300 is a more reasonable figure. And 
she told our investigator that an insurer she spoke with while asking for a quote on the 
phone told her that the open claim was affecting the premium it would charge her. And I 
have no reason to doubt that was the impression the other insurer or broker gave to her. So 
Miss W thinks the open claim has continued to affect her. And in those circumstances I think 
UKIs impact on her has been more significant than its compensation of £150 recognised. So 
I think it should pay her a further £150 compensation, to bring the total to £300.Further, while UKI has marked the claim as NCD allowed on the shared database, given 
that the other drivers insurer didn't ever dispute liability, it's not clear why UKI has yet to shut 
the claim down completely. So, I think it should pursue that matter with the other drivers 
insurer in order to recover its outlay and close the claim. And it should also write to Miss W 
when the matter has closed on the shared database.
For completeness, Miss W also referred to being out of pocket for temporary insurance she 
took out after she cancelled her UKI policy. Ive seen that UKI agreed to refund £82 as a 
contribution towards that, which it has done. But I don't think it needed to continue to fund 
Miss Ws temporary cover, as she chose to take that out herself.
developments 
Neither Miss W nor UKI agreed with my provisional decision. UKI said that different insurers 
will treat open claims on the shared database differently. And it said it has no evidence it 
was the open claim on the database that caused the other insurer to quote a higher 
premium. It added that it's not responsible for the comments of another insurer. 
Miss W made a number of detailed points most of which repeated comments shed made 
earlier and which Id considered prior to issuing my provisional decision. I don't intend to 
repeat every point shes made here but will summarise her key comments.
Miss W repeated that UKI accepted, in June 2019, it hadn't closed the claim as non-fault on 
the shared database. And it paid her compensation as a result. She thinks that delay meant 
she couldn't find affordable insurance from other providers. And she again gave us quotes 
from a comparison website to show that.
  
Miss W said UKI had told her that the non-fault incident wouldn't affect her premium but she 
believed it had. She said when she first insured with UKI her premium was £76 a month but 
by 2019 it was £240 a month. And UKI didn't explain why it had increased. 
Miss W said UKI's actions had affected her credit score as it was pursuing her for a debt of 
around £290. She said she thinks UKI are dishonest and had found a way to penalise her. 
She added that the following actions needed to be taken:
 Compensate her for the increase in premiums for 12 months
 Reimburse her £15 she paid for temporary cover
 Compensate her £300 for her distress and inconvenience 
 Write-off the premium of around £290 she owed to UKI
 Amend her credit file
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I don't intend to change my provisional decision.
UKI said it hasn't seen evidence that other insurers quoted Miss W a higher premium 
because the claim wasn't closed on the shared database. UKI was correct to say that 
different insurers will treat information from the database differently. And Im aware that 
some insurers may consider a consumer with an open claim on the database as a higher 
risk than a consumer without an open claim. So, while I wasn't party to the conversation in which an insurer or broker told Miss W that the open claim was affecting her premium, I think 
its likely that happened as Miss W said it did. 
UKIs added that it isn't responsible for the actions of other insurers. But I think that misses 
the point. The other drivers insurer accepted liability for the accident in 2018 and made 
payment to UKI soon after. But UKI returned that payment and failed to follow up on it. Had it 
done so in a timely way its unlikely that the claim would have remained open on the 
database. And had the claim closed in a timely way then there wouldn't have been scope for 
another insurer to tell Miss W that the open claim was affecting her premium, even if that 
wasn't the case. So I think it's fair that UKI increases the compensation payable to Miss W 
by £150 to £300 in total to address Miss Ws distress and inconvenience as a result of that. 
Miss W has repeated that she thinks UKIs delay in closing the claim on the shared database 
meant shes received higher quotes from other insurers. And shes again provided some 
quotes she received at that time from a comparison site. But this was a point I explicitly 
covered in my provisional decision. I explained that in my experience insurers won't look at 
information on the shared database when providing quotes via a comparison site. So any 
information on the shared database shouldn't have affected the quotes she received at that 
time. It follows that I remain satisfied UKIs delay in marking the claim as non-fault, or in 
closing it down, didn't cause Miss W to receive higher quotes when looking for a policy 
through the comparison site. 
Miss Ws said that her premiums with UKI have increased over time. And it hasn't provided 
an explanation for those increases. It might help if I explain that insurance essentially 
concerns risk assessments. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of the likelihood that their policyholders will make a claim and how 
much they might have to pay out for it. Insurers take into account numerous different factors 
when deciding what to charge for their policies. And if the insurers assessment of risk 
increases, it may decide to increase the premium to address that increased risk. Thats 
something insurers are allowed to do.
Were not the industry regulator, so its not my role to tell an insurer what factors it should 
take into account when assessing risk. Different insurers will have different views on what 
presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of commercial judgement 
and not something we would usually think its fair to interfere with.
Also, like any business, an insurer has to think about its costs and profit margins to remain in 
business. And customers may expect a simple explanation for a price increase. But theyre 
unlikely to get one. Thats because how insurers calculate their premiums is commercially 
sensitive information and not something they would wish their competitors to learn about. 
Also for insurers like UKI there may be hundreds of variables it has to consider when setting 
a premium. And those include things like, address, the model and age of car, the age and 
driving experience of the policyholder, any penalty points and numerous other factors. And if 
an insurers assessment of those risks changes then they might choose to charge a higher 
premium. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they 
treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge 
what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. And insurers will re-rate the risks they 
consider regularly. So the quotes an insurer provides will change as its assessment of risk 
changes. And that may mean that some policyholders will be quoted higher premiums. And 
that's whats happened in Miss Ws case but it doesn't mean UKIs done anything wrong. 
I'm also aware Miss W seems to think that the non-fault accident did affect the renewal 
premium UKI offered to her in 2019. We asked UKI for information about how it had 
calculated Mis Ws premium. And it confirmed that the non-fault incident didn't affect that calculation. So I'm satisfied it hasn't treated her unfairly when calculating her premiums. It 
follows that I don't think it needs to offer Mis W any form of compensation because her 
premiums increased.
 
I understand that, after Miss W cancelled her policy, she still owed UKI around £290 in 
outstanding premium for her time on cover. But as I've said above I haven't seen any 
evidence that it calculated her premium unfairly. And as Miss W agreed to pay that premium 
when she took the policy out I don't think UKIs acted unfairly in asking Miss W to pay to it 
what she owes for her time on cover. It follows that, as I think its reasonable for UKI to 
recover that debt, I don't intend to comment further on any impact that action might have on 
Miss Ws credit score. 
 
Miss Ws also said UKI should cover a £15 charge for temporary insurance. As I said in my 
provisional decision Ive seen that UKI agreed to reimburse Miss W £82 for temporary 
insurance cover. And it paid her that sum in June 2019. But I don't think the fact it agreed to 
pay for some temporary cover means it must continue to pay Miss W for other cover she 
decided to take out. So I'm not going to instruct it to reimburse Miss W for that sum. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited 
to:
Pay Miss W additional compensation of £150, to bring the total to £300, to address
her distress and inconvenience.
Continue to pursue the other drivers insurer to recover its outlay and write to Miss W
to confirm when it has closed the claim down on the shared database.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman