DRN-2380643
The complaint
Mr T says that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
In 1996 Mr T took out a Nationwide mortgage along with PPI to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments. The policy covered Mr T in the event of unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr T disagrees. He 
mainly says he never knew that the policy existed and it was added without his permission. 
Mr T told us that, if hed known about it at the time, he wouldve refused PPI as he had 
sufficient resources and good work benefits he couldve relied on to cover the mortgage 
payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Im sorry Mr T feels our adjudicator has failed properly to take into account what was said by 
the ombudsman who looked at whether we were able to investigate this complaint. 
Id like to reassure Mr T that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. Heres why I say this.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. 
But that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. Mr T told us he took out the 
PPI during a meeting so I think its likely thats what happened.  
Ive taken into account everything Mr T has told us about the way he says Nationwide sold 
him the PPI. But what Mr T says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr T to recall exactly what was discussed at 
the time. I have to look at everything and decide, on balance, what I think is most likely. And 
I must be impartial. 
Mr T feels that an earlier ombudsmans findings that this service could investigate his 
complaint shows that its already been agreed that he didnt know the policy existed. Our 
adjudicator has addressed this point and explained that the ombudsman was deciding 
whether or not Mr T had brought his complaint to us in time  not whether the PPI was mis-
sold to him in 1996. 
It would be completely understandable that some years later Mr T might not have 
remembered he had PPI. That doesnt mean it was mis-sold.
Im looking at Mr Ts mis-sale complaint. So I must look at what happened in 1996 when the 
PPI was added to his mortgage. And in order to be able to uphold Mr Ts mis-selling 
complaint, Id have to find that its likely that he wasnt given a fair choice about PPI when he 
took it out in 1996 or that it was added to the account without his consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr Ts mortgage without his consent. 
I say this because the mortgage was a major financial commitment which Mr T signed up to 
pay back over 25 years. PPI offered a dependable means of ensuring the monthly mortgage 
repayments were protected if he couldnt work.
It appears that Mr T selected only the parts of the policy he wanted since he didnt take out 
accident and sickness cover but protection against unemployment only. 
And it looks to me like Mr T couldve found PPI useful if hed needed to claim. So I can see 
why he mightve felt that having some PPI was worthwhile for him when he arranged the 
mortgage.  
On balance, I think its likely that Mr T decided he wanted to protect his home by having the 
benefits the policy offered him against unemployment and it was added on to his mortgage 
account when he chose to buy the PPI. Although I can completely understand if hes 
forgotten this now. 
I've taken into account that Mr T says the policy was completely unsuitable for his needs.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend PPI to Mr T. And looking at what this service knows 
about how Nationwide sold policies in its branches in 1996, I dont think its likely it gave 
advice or a recommendation about PPI to Mr T. So it wasnt up to Nationwide to check 
whether the policy was suitable for Mr Ts needs.
But Nationwide still should have told Mr T enough about the policy for him to be able to 
decide if he wanted to buy it. And if that didnt happen, I have to decide whether this makes 
any overall difference to the outcome of this complaint.
I think, broadly speaking, its likely that Nationwide did give Mr T enough clear information for 
him to be able to decide if PPI was right for him - and where it mightnt have done, better 
information wouldnt have made a difference to Mr Ts decision to take out PPI. 
It looks to me like Mr T was eligible for the PPI. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months per claim in the event he lost his job unexpectedly and found himself out of work. 
Mr T has mentioned that he wouldve been able to depend on getting 6 months' full sick pay 
followed by half pay for 6 months from his employer. But that doesnt affect my decision here 
because Mr T didnt take out any sickness cover as part of the PPI he set up  he took 
unemployment cover only.
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure. And PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his job, giving Mr T some 
additional financial security in those circumstances.I dont know if Mr T wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make a claim 
as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And it looks like he preferred not to spend savings, or he had other plans for that money, 
since he took out this mortgage rather than invest savings in buying the house. Having PPI 
meant Mr T could depend on being able to continue to keep savings intact to spend on other 
things or to provide financial security for the future. 
There was always a risk that selling assets if Mr T wasnt able to work mightnt have been 
enough to pay the mortgage for very long, along with other outgoings hed have to meet, 
bearing in mind the mortgage was a financial commitment he was expecting to have to pay 
for many years. 
And having PPI meant Mr T wasnt at risk of being forced to sell any assets  perhaps at a 
time not of his choosing when he mightnt have been able to achieve the price he hoped for, 
given that market values could go up or down.  
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mr T couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving him long term protection for his 
mortgage.
So I think the policy offered Mr T useful benefits given his particular circumstances.
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mr T about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. 
But it appears that he couldve benefitted from the full extent of the unemployment cover 
hed taken out. 
So I dont think that having better information about the policys exclusions and limitations is 
likely to have put Mr T off taking out the cover he chose. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr T at the outset. But he appears to have 
tailored the PPI to meet his specific requirements so it looks like this reflected his wishes at 
the time. And I've seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a problem for him  
so thats not a reason for me to uphold his complaint. 
This was a policy he paid for monthly so Mr T was able to cancel it at any time if he no 
longer wanted to pay for it.
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr T wouldve made a different decision about whether to 
take out PPI if clearer information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still have 
taken it out. 
So I dont find that Mr T has lost out as a result of anything Nationwide did wrong. This 
means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionFor these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman