DRN-3863947
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Additions account in May 1996 and a fee-paying Tech Pack in January 2017.
Mr N says that his account was changed to an Additions account, but it wasnt explained to 
him that he would have to pay a monthly fee for the account.
Mr N says that his Additions account was then changed to a fee-free account, but with a fee-
paying Tech Pack added, without his consent.
What happened
Barclays said that Mr N had complained too late about the sale of the Additions account. 
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they agreed that it had been raised too 
late for our service to be able to consider that aspect of the complaint.
The adjudicator then went on to assess whether the Tech Pack had been mis-sold. They 
concluded that it hadnt been.
Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about the Tech Pack, so the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
As it has already been established that Mr Ns complaint about the Additions account was 
made too late, this decision will only focus on whether the Tech Pack was added to Mr Ns 
account correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to conclude that Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. I will 
explain why.
In 2016 Barclays decided to withdraw the Additions packaged account  which came into 
effect in January 2017. When it did this, it migrated all Additions accounts to a fee-free 
current account. At the same time, Barclays also added on a Tech Pack to the account but 
gave all affected account holders the choice to opt out of the Pack being added, if they no 
longer needed the cover it provided. I understand Barclays did this to ensure that similar 
mobile phone insurance cover was provided for those who were relying on the cover 
provided on their existing Additions account.
Mr N says that he never agreed to the changes that were made to the account or agreed to 
the Pack being added to his account. However, as the change to the account in January 
2017 was a migration, rather than the sale of a new account, I think that it was not 
unreasonable for Barclays to do this on an opt out, rather than opt in basis. I say this as 
the Pack was essentially introduced to replace mobile phone insurance benefits that account 
holders already had and were already paying for under the Additions account.
Barclays was able to make such changes to the Additions account - but only if it gave 
sufficient notice to all affected account holders. This was to ensure account holders had 
sufficient information and time to understand what changes would be made to their account. 
And to ensure account holders understood what options were available to them. I have 
therefore considered whether Barclays gave sufficient notice of the migration that took place 
on Mr Ns account.
Barclays wrote to Mr N on 29 September 2016 to inform him that the Additions package was 
being removed and explained that the account would be changing in January 2017. Included 
with this letter was a summary of all the benefits that will be removed  which included the 
Legal and Tax Helpline feature. It also explained what benefits will continue (via the Tech 
Pack) i.e. mobile phone insurance, that also included gadget cover.
Barclays then wrote to Mr N again, this time on 20 January 2017. This letter confirmed that 
Mr Ns account had been changed to a fee-free account that included a fee-paying Tech 
Pack. The letter explained that Mr N would be charged £9.50 per month for the Pack and 
provided a summary of the insurance cover that was included with the Tech Pack. The letter 
invited Mr N to check whether the account and the Pack benefits were still right for him, and 
if not, to contact Barclays by phone or in branch.
Having looked at copies of the letters that Barclays has provided from its system records, I 
can see that they were correctly addressed. So overall, I think its more likely than not that 
they were sent to Mr N. 
Mr N says that he has a visual impairment, so wont have been able to read the letters sent 
to him. In response to this point, Barclays has explained that it was only made aware of Mr 
Ns visual impairment on 13 January 2022. Mr N says that he told Barclays about this before 
then, but I cant find any evidence (either from Mr N or Barclays) that shows that Mr N did 
inform Barclays about this or had asked Barclays to change how it communicates with him 
prior to January 2022. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Barclays had done what it was required to do in terms of 
informing Mr N about the changes that were taking place on his account and explaining what 
his options were. And I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible for sending standard 
letters to Mr N, if it was unaware that he had different communication needs. 
I appreciate that Mr N says that the Tech Pack was not a suitable product for him. But 
ultimately, as Im unable to say that Barclays has done anything wrong or has acted unfairly 
when it migrated his account, I cant reasonably ask it to refund him the Pack fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman