DRN-3211590
The complaint
Miss G has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim she made 
for storm damage under her home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss G reported damage to her home following a storm in December 2020. Aviva instructed 
a loss adjuster (LA) to inspect the damage as part of Miss Gs claim. The LA said that while 
storm conditions occurred at the time, the damage was caused as a result of poor design of 
the roof and materials used. As Avivas policy excluded cover in these circumstances, it 
rejected Miss Gs claim for storm damage  but it said it could deal with some damage to 
tiles on the single storey roof from the double storey roof above as a result of falling debris 
under the Accidental Damage section of the policy. 
Miss G was unhappy with Avivas decision and so it agreed for an independent assessor to 
inspect Miss Gs roof. They came to the same conclusion as the LA. So Aviva didnt change 
its decision. 
Miss G asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought in light of the information 
from the LA and the independent assessor, Aviva had acted reasonably. 
Miss G doesnt agree. In summary she says that the area of damage which the two 
assessors focused on isnt related to her claim for storm damage: she says previous repairs 
were carried out to repointing of two valleys on the lower roof. Miss G says the damage she 
is claiming for is to the verges at the other end of the rows of tiles on the upper roof.
Miss G says that there were several properties in her road which were damaged by the 
same storm and had claims accepted by their insurers, including Aviva. 
Miss G says a number of contractors have advised her that there was no fault with the 
installation of the verge tiles  in fact these are designed to be held by the weight of the tiles 
above , with fixings on every 2nd or 3rd row. 
So Miss G wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we ask three questions in order to consider if an insurer has 
fairly declined a claim for storm damage. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
I can only consider the individual circumstances of Miss Gs claim against Aviva. 
Aviva has accepted that storm conditions occurred around the time when the damage 
occurred, so this isnt in dispute. 
I think its possible that the damage being claimed for is consistent with damage that a storm 
typically causes. However, I dont think there is enough evidence to show that storm 
conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
Aviva instructed a LA to inspect the damage to Miss Gs roof. I appreciate that the LA and 
the independent assessor who visited commented on damage to other areas of the roof that 
had previous repairs which Miss G says she isnt claiming for. 
Ive also looked at the picture of Miss Gs house provided by her where she helpfully points 
out the areas of damage she says were caused by a storm - and where previous repairs 
have been done. Colour coded arrows point to repairs carried out to both the double and 
single storey roof. 
Key comments from the independent assessor are that repointing repairs carried out four 
years before were done by cementing over existing mortar rather than removing the existing 
mortar first. The assessor found that the original construction of the verge tiles wasnt 
adequate  including the double storey roof and the single storey roof. They concluded that 
although storm conditions had occurred, the damage wouldnt have occurred but for the 
existence of the poor original construction and fitting of the verge tiles. 
Miss Gs policy with Aviva excludes cover for claims where the damage is caused by: faulty 
workmanship, defective design or the use of defective materials
So from the information available, I dont think Avivas decision to reject Miss Gs claim for 
storm damage was unreasonable. I think it properly considered the claim. It accepted a claim 
for accidental damage caused by falling tiles onto the single storey roof. I havent seen any 
evidence of equal weight to contradict the LA and assessors findings for Aviva to reconsider 
its decision. 
I understand Miss G will be disappointed, but for these reasons Im not upholding her 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman