DRN-3722615
The complaint
Mr V complains about Covea Insurance plcs (Covea) decision to decline cover for his pet 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr V says his dog injured his hip, so they attended a veterinary practice in September 2021 
and they recommended x-rays. They also suggested x-rays be carried out on the dogs 
knees. Following receipt of the x-rays, the vet recommended surgery to the knees and a 
possible operation on the hip. The veterinary practice submitted a pre-authorisation form for 
the surgery but Covea declined to cover this on the basis the claim related to a pre-existing 
condition which is excluded in the policy. A claim was then made for the vet fees incurred by 
Mr V, but this was also declined for the same reason. 
Mr V complained to Covea and they responded and explained the pet insurance policy 
started in July 2019 but the clinical notes showed attendances at the veterinary practice 
where the vet identified issues which are linked to the cranial cruciate ligament now being 
claimed for. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr V 
and Covea on 21 September 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows: 
     
My starting point is Mr Vs pet insurance policy. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and under the heading What we will not pay it says, The cost of any 
treatment for a pre-existing condition. The policy then describes a pre-existing 
condition as an injury that happened or an illness that first showed clinical signs 
before the start of the insurance cover or, an injury or illness that is the same as, or 
has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign that a pet 
had before the insurance cover started. The policy also defines a pre-existing 
condition as an injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, 
illness or clinical sign a pet had before cover started. The claim form submitted to 
Covea describes Mr Vs dogs condition as right and left cruciate ligament rupture. 
Covea firstly declined the claim to pre-authorise treatment on the basis the condition 
being claimed for was first noted prior to the policy start date. Covea then declined 
the claim for the treatment on the same basis. So, Ive looked into whether Coveas 
decision is fair and reasonable. 
  
I should stress that I am not a vet and nor do I have specialist veterinary knowledge, 
so when considering such complaints, I take into account what the clinical notes 
show and the opinion of the experts. And, thats what Ive done here. 
Under guidelines issued by their regulatory body, all vets are required to take the 
utmost care when writing records to ensure they are clear and accurate. It is 
therefore reasonable for an insurer to rely on the clinical notes as being a true and 
accurate representation of what was seen and heard at the time of each consultation. 
The clinical notes are a contemporaneous account of Mr Vs dogs clinical history. 
Ive looked at the clinical notes and theres an entry on 19 February 2019 which says, 
[Mr Vs dog] is limping with back leg and had some issue with his back leg two 
weeks ago but this then improved. The note goes further to say Mr Vs dog had been 
out playing more recently and Mr V noticed his dog with no weight bearing on R 
hindlimb and Mr V then placed an ice pack around his dogs right knee. The vets 
notes then describe some movement tests they carried out and notes their 
assessment as poss muscle injury?? Poss Knee-ligaments? Other
Theres a further consultation on 7 May 2019 where the vet notes there hadnt been 
much improvement following medication and Mr Vs dog starts limping if walking for 
more than 15 minutes. The vet notes they were unable to carry out a proper 
examination of Mr Vs dogs hips as he was sitting. The vet then notes movement 
tests carried out on the knees and says, L knee  mild crackes, cranial drawer test -
nad, patellar reflex  normal, tibial reflex  normal. R knee  reactive on touch, 
crackles on manipulation, cranial drawer test  positive, other joints/legs  nad. 
Assessment: partial vs total CCL [cranial cruciate ligament] rupture?? Unable to 
assess as very stiff. The notes go further to say the vet discussed options with Mr V 
which included x-rays and surgery. 
Insurers often appoint experts experienced in this type of work to provide an opinion, 
and thats what Covea did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for 
Covea to take an experts opinion into account. I can see Covea contacted the 
veterinary practice that carried out the x-rays and asked for clarification on whether 
the cruciate rupture is related to the treatment provided in 2019. The treating vet says 
the lameness back in 2019 [Mr Vs dog] recovered from that so this would not be 
related with his current cruciate lameness. Covea then seek an opinion from an 
independent vet and they say In my professional opinion, given all of the information 
provided I believe it is highly likely the previous right hind limb lameness was related 
to the current claim for cranial cruciate ligament disease. 
Where there is conflicting vet evidence, I have to weigh up which is more persuasive. 
Mr Vs dogs vet carried out the x-rays and their notes also show they carried out a 
thorough examination of Mr Vs dog. So, being the treating vet, they have first-hand 
knowledge of the issues leading to diagnosis and treatment in Mr Vs dog. And given 
that this vet was involved in all aspects of the condition including initial diagnosis, x-
rays, tests and observations, I think its reasonable to place more weight on the 
information provided by them. So, Im more persuaded by their opinion that the 
issues in 2021 arent related to the issue in 2019. 
I would add, the experts opinion isnt the only factor Ive taken into consideration. 
Theres a number of other factors which persuade me that its more likely than not, 
the issue in 2021 is unrelated to the issue in 2019. Between the consultation in May 
2019 and September 2021, theres more than a two-year gap. Ive reviewed the 
clinical notes and, while there are several visits to the vet during this period, the 
notes dont record any complaint about the issue identified in 2019. So, Im 
persuaded by the treating vets opinion that Mr Vs dog had recovered from the 
unrelated issue in 2019. I note Covea say theyre aware in most cases, cruciate 
ligament issues form part of an ongoing disease process. I do acknowledge this but, I 
believe, on the balance of probabilities, even a condition which gradually forms over 
a period of time, would show during consultations and observations carried out over 
a two-year period. In fact, theres a vet consultation in September 2019, which 
although for an unrelated issue, the vet notes Mr V took his dog for a walk and he 
was fine.   I dont disagree the notes for the consultations in 2019 refer to an issue with Mr Vs 
dogs knees. But, theres no definitive diagnosis of the issue. The assessment 
following the February 2019 visit is that it could be a muscle injury, knee ligament 
injury or something else. The assessment following the May 2019 visit again doesnt 
provide a full diagnosis. The vet notes they couldnt examine Mr Vs dogs hips 
properly and, while theyve noted whether there is a partial or total CCL rupture, they 
say theyre unable to assess this as the area was very stiff. The notes then show a 
discussion about treatment options, which includes x-rays and surgery, but I cant 
see these take place. And, the next vet consultation which takes place is around 
three weeks later, but theres no complaint about Mr Vs dogs knees or CCL. So, 
given that theres no evidence of a definite diagnosis of cruciate ligament rupture 
during the visits in 2019, Im not persuaded the evidence supports a link between the 
issues in 2019 and 2021. 
I note Covea refer to the definition of a pre-existing condition as set out in the terms 
and conditions. In particular, they point to the section which refers to a condition 
having the same clinical signs before the cover started. I do acknowledge Coveas 
point and I agree the clinical notes for the consultation in February 2019 show a 
discussion about there being an issue with Mr Vs dogs knee ligaments  so I 
understand why Covea believe this shows the same clinical signs as the issue in 
2021. But, I think its important to look at the context in which that note was made by 
the vet. The vet places a question mark beside their comment about the knee 
ligament which suggests theyre uncertain whether this is the issue. Im further 
persuaded this isnt a definitive diagnosis as the vet also questions whether it could 
be a muscle injury. And, Ive seen no evidence that completely rules out it being a 
muscle injury. The clinical notes of the consultation in May 2019 refer to the vet 
considering whether there is a CCL rupture but they were unable to assess this. So, 
while I acknowledge there is consideration by the vet in 2019 of issues relating to Mr 
Vs dogs knees, I dont think the evidence shows this was fully assessed and 
determined.      
Taking this all into account, I think Covea have unfairly declined Mr Vs claim for 
treatment costs and for pre-authorisation. So, I think Covea should reimburse the 
fees paid by Mr V for the treatment and x-rays and also pay compensation for the 
upset and inconvenience caused to Mr V. 
I can see Mr V says the cruciate surgery isnt something hes looking to pursue at this 
time. But, should Mr V decide to pursue the claim for pre-authorisation, Covea should 
reconsider this claim further, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. It is of course open to them to make any other further enquiries they feel are 
necessary, but I dont think its reasonable for them to decline it on the basis it relates 
to a pre-existing condition.   
So, subject to any further comments from Mr V or Covea, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint and require Covea to settle the claim and pay 
compensation.   
Following my provisional decision, Mr V has responded to say he accepts the decision. He 
also points out that the reason for the vet consultation in September 2021 was because of 
an issue with his dogs hip. And, it was while his dog was sedated that the vet suggested    
x-rays of his dogs knees also. Covea have responded and agree there was no definitive 
diagnosis noted in the clinical notes before 2021, but they point out their definition of a pre-
existing condition includes something that has the same clinical signs or symptoms. They 
say Mr Vs dog showed the same clinical symptoms as the cruciate ligament disease the 
claim is for. They also believe, while Mr Vs dog recovered from the lameness shown in 
2019, the symptoms and the vets potential diagnosis was the same as what they are claiming for. Covea say, while a diagnosis was not made, the vet believed the condition 
could be CCL rupture based on the symptoms Mr Vs dog was showing.    
Given that both parties have responded, I see no reason to delay making a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
I have carefully considered Coveas comments, but Im not persuaded the circumstances of 
this case fall within their definition of a pre-existing condition. As mentioned in my provisional 
decision, I agree the clinical notes for the consultations in 2019 do refer to Mr Vs dogs 
knees and also consideration of a CCL rupture. So, I dont doubt the symptoms which are 
being claimed for, were to some extent, considered by the vet in 2019. But, the most 
persuasive factor for me here is the lack of a definitive diagnosis. The clinical notes relating 
to the consultations in 2019 show that the vet couldnt carry out a full examination and, 
therefore, couldnt say with any certainty what the problem was. I dont think its fair to 
conclude that a note made by a vet which refers to a CCL rupture as being a possible issue, 
amongst other possible causes such as muscle injury, is a clinical sign of a CCL rupture. 
I think its important to add, Im not saying the problem in 2019 could never, under any 
circumstances, be linked to a CCL issue. What Im saying is that I havent seen compelling 
evidence that it couldnt possibly be something else, like a muscle injury. So, Ive applied a 
balance of probabilities test and, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im  
persuaded that its more likely than not, the issue in 2021 is unrelated to the issue in 2019.      
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Covea acted unfairly in declining Mr Vs claim for vet fees and for 
pre-authorisation. So, they should reimburse the fees Mr V has paid and claimed for together 
with 8% interest per year simple from the date Mr V paid, until the date his claim is settled. 
Should Mr V decide to pursue the claim for pre-authorisation, Covea should reconsider this 
claim further, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Covea should also 
pay Mr V compensation of £100 for the upset and inconvenience caused. Covea should 
provide Mr V with a certificate showing any taxation deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Covea Insurance plc must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman