DRN-3567680
The complaint
Ms W has complained that she was unsuitably advised by St Pauls Marketing Limited, an
appointed representative of Alexander David Securities Limited, to switch two personal
pensions to a SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension) and make high risk investments.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 6 June 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set out 
in that decision. I have reproduced the relevant sections of that decision below, and it forms 
part of this final decision.
Ms Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. In summary, he said Ms W
had applied for a SIPP and a trading account in November 2016. She had transferred a total
of £17,314 into the SIPP from her existing two pension providers. And then £16,413 had
been transferred to the trading account and invested in Just Loans debentures and shares.
Ms Ws representative had said that she had been cold called by an unregulated party that
had subsequently introduced her to St Pauls Marketing. It said that St Pauls Marketing had
then carried out a financial review and provided Ms W with financial advice. It said the advice
had been unsuitable as Ms W was an inexperienced and low risk investor.
The investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He said the promotional
material he had seen relating to Just Loans debentures said, An investment in the Company
is only suitable for investors capable of evaluating the risks and merits of such investment
and who have sufficient resources to bear any loss which may result from the investment.
He said St Pauls Marketing promoted the investment by direct offer. And that he understood,
the investment was a non-readily realisable security. He said it wasnt admitted to
an official list and, although it was listed on a recognised investment exchange, it couldnt
reasonably have been expected to be regularly traded (as defined in international standards)
on that exchange. The Just Loans promotional material referred to the debentures as illiquid,
said that there might be no market for them even after listing, and said that investors might
need to hold them to redemption.
The investigator said that the shares were listed on the Emerging Companies Market of the
Cyprus Stock Exchange and also on the Third Market of the Vienna Stock Exchange. He
said volume data was difficult to obtain on the websites for either exchange, however the
shares didnt appear to be regularly traded either. The investigator said that the
appropriateness rules in COBS 10 applied. He noted the rules said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable
security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought
reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response to a direct offer financial
promotion.
And that COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Ms Ws knowledge and
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered
or demanded so as to enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is
appropriate.
The investigator said that his understanding was that Ms W had no significant investment
knowledge and no experience of making investments of this nature. He said he could only
conclude that the investments werent appropriate for her.
The investigator said one of the Regulators strategic objectives was to protect consumers,
and its rules reflected that objective. He said the Regulators Principles required St Pauls
Marketing to conduct its business with integrity, pay due regard to its customers interests
and treat them fairly, and manage conflicts of interest fairly. He said whatever the precise
nature of St Pauls Marketings interactions with Ms W, they directly resulted in an
inexperienced investor investing most of her pension in illiquid, high risk bonds and small
company shares, from a single issuer. He said in his view St Pauls Marketing had failed to
act in accordance with the Principles or in Ms Ws best interests.
The investigator went on to set out how he thought fair compensation should be calculated
and paid to Ms W.
Alexander David Securities Limited didnt respond to the investigators assessment and
therefore the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Ms Ws original complaint or to the investigators
assessment of it. Alexander David hasnt disputed what the investigator said, or provided
any further evidence or arguments.
Theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at the time of the
transfer (technically known as a switch) and investment. In my experience its unusual for
someone with Ms Ws background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in
order to invest in this type of investment on their own volition, and without any prompting
from another party.
Ms Ws representative has said that she was cold called by another party and referred to St
Pauls Marketing who conducted a financial review and went onto provide financial advice. It
said she was told she would make more money by making the transfer as it would grow at a
rate in excess of that if she left the pensions where they were. It said there was clear
negligence in the advice to invest in such high risk investments that were not suitable for
someone with no investment experience, wanted low risk investments and had a low
capacity for loss.
The firm hasnt disputed this. On the balance of the limited evidence that is available, I think
its more likely than not that St Pauls Marketing did advise Ms W to switch her pension and 
invest in the debentures and shares. And given the significant risks presented by the
investments, I dont think they were suitable for Ms W in her circumstances, particularly as
she has said she wanted low risk investments and had only got a low capacity for loss.
However, if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Ms W, I think the evidence shows
it was involved in arranging the transaction. For the reasons given by the investigator, I think
COBS 10 applied and it required St Pauls Marketing to assess Ms Ws knowledge andexperience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered
or demand so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for her.
Ms W has said she had no investment experience and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that
she had experience of this type of investment. Both the shares and debentures presented
significant risks. In my view they werent appropriate for Ms W given her limited
knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the
debentures and shares werent suitable or appropriate for Ms W. I also dont think the firm
met its obligations under the regulators Principles for Business. It failed to act in Ms Ws
best interests by not ensuring the investment was appropriate or suitable for her. And it
failed to ensure the suitability of its advice, which I think Ms W was entitled to rely on.
Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Ms W to transfer and invest in the
shares and debentures, or if it had told her they werent suitable or appropriate for her, she
wouldnt have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Ms W to transfer and
invest in a product that she would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures
caused the losses that Ms W has claimed.
For the reasons outlined above, I said my provisional decision was to uphold Ms Ws 
complaint. I went on to set out how I thought Alexander David Securities Limited should
calculate and pay compensation to Ms W.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to
consider before I made my final decision.
Ms W, through her representative, said that she would like any compensation paid as a cash 
settlement rather than into her pension as she was over age 55.
Alexander David Securities Limited didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional
decision to uphold the complaint.
I think the methodology as set out in my provisional decision provides for fair compensation
in this case. And that any compensation should be paid into Ms Ws SIPP subject to the 
provisions set out in my provisional decision. Those monies would have been in a pension 
even if Ms W hadnt been advised to switch. So I think the starting point is that its 
appropriate to pay compensation where due into the pension  albeit the payment for 
distress and inconvenience should be paid to Ms W direct.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms W as close as possible
to the position she would probably now be in but for the firms failings.I think Ms W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she
would have done, but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable
given Ms W's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
My understanding is that Ms W reinvested the proceeds from the original debentures she
bought when they matured in January 2019 into a new issue of debentures. And that St
Pauls Marketing wasnt involved in that decision. I also understand that she still holds the
shares, and they arent currently tradeable.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Ms W fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should compare the
performance of Ms Ws investments with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Ms Ws pension plan to
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Ms Ws pension
plan, it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional
allowance should be calculated using Ms Ws actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her
selected retirement age.
I think Ms W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms W would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander David should:
Pay Ms W £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the loss in value of 
her pension has caused her.
Provide details of the calculation to Ms W in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms W how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Ms W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
decision8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Ms Ws
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date, excluding the value of the
bonds. If, at the end date, the JLG shares are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold
on the open market), it may be difficult to find their actual value. So, the value of the shares
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities
Limited should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value
acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation
and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the shares their value should be
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David Securities Limited may
wish to require that Ms W provides an undertaking to pay Alexander David Securities Limited
any amount she may receive from the shares in the future. That undertaking must allow for
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan.
Alexander David Securities Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the
undertaking.
Fair value
I dont think Ms W would have transferred but for the firms failings. So the fair value is what
the sums transferred from the previous plan, plus any charges incurred within those
plans on transfer, would have been worth at the end date had they achieved a return in line
with the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Alexander
David Securities Limited should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of
the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually
compounded basis.Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. The sum that matured and was
then reinvested of £12,614 on 25 January 2019 should be deducted in this way.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ms W has said that she was a low risk investor. As I have said above, I dont think Ms W
would have transferred her pension but for the firms failings. I dont know exactly how she
would have invested. But I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate
benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the lower level of risk that Ms W was willing to
take.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms Ws risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was only prepared
to take a limited level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So the 50/50 combination
would reasonably put Ms W into that position.
It doesnt mean that Ms W would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker
investment. Rather I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort
of return Ms W could have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk
attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Ms W as I 
have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman