DRN-2518354
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Yorkshire Building Society trading as Chelsea Building Society 
(YBS) and their failure to pay her the remaining balance she found in a passbook linked to 
a historic savings account.
What happened
Mrs Bs complaint has been brought to us using a third-party representative. I will refer to 
them both as Mrs B for ease of reference throughout the decision.
In mid-2020, Mrs B found a passbook linked to an old savings account which showed an 
outstanding balance of £2807.99 in 1988. As the passbook didnt show the account had 
been closed, she contacted YBS and asked them to pay her the remaining balance and 
close the account.
But YBS were unable to find a record of Mrs Bs account using the account number on the 
passbook, and Mrs Bs personal information. Because of this, they though the balance had 
already been paid and marked the passbook and account as closed. Mrs B was unhappy 
with this response, so she raised a complaint.
She didnt think it was fair for YBS to treat the account as closed. She thought the passbook 
clearly showed an outstanding balance. And she thought, as the passbook wouldve been 
needed to withdraw those funds, it was unfair for YBS to assume the balance had already 
been paid. So, she wanted the balance to be paid to her.
YBS didnt agree. They explained due to the amount of time since the passbook was last 
used, they were unable to say for certain what had happened with the account. But they 
explained if Mrs Bs account had remained open, it wouldve been transferred onto their 
system when they merged with Building Society C, who Mrs Bs savings account was initially 
with. And that a new account number wouldve been provided. As this didnt happen, they 
thought it was most likely that the account had been closed and the balance withdrawn and 
some point before the merger took place in 2011. So, they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong. Mrs B remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained he had limited 
evidence available due to the time that had passed since the passbook had last been used. 
He explained YBS were only obliged to keep records of accounts for six years, so couldnt 
say theyd acted unfairly by not being able to provide further information. And he explained 
based on the balance of probability, he thought it was most likely that the account had been 
closed and balance withdrawn. This was because YBS had no record of the account and he 
wouldve expected them to be able to locate it if the account was still open. He also referred 
to the pass book being marked as closed.
Mrs B didnt agree. She explained the passbook was only marked closed after shed 
provided the passbook to YBS in 2020. So, she didnt think it was fair for our investigator to 
rely on this as evidence of the account closure. Our investigator acknowledged this but 
explained this didnt change his opinion that the account was most likely closed at some 
point in the past.
Mrs B still didnt agree as she didnt think it was possible for the balance to be withdrawn 
without the passbook. And as the passbook showed an outstanding balance, she thought 
this showed the account had a balance that should be paid to her. As Mrs B didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this complaint has caused Mrs B. I appreciate Mrs B 
found a passbook that showed an account with an outstanding balance and no stamp to 
show it had been withdrawn. So, I can understand why Mrs B feels YBS should now pay her 
the balance. But due to the passage of time since the passbook was last used, YBS are 
unable to provide me with evidence to show exactly what happened with that account. So, 
Ive had to consider the testimonies of both Mrs B and YBS and decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened to the account. And for me to say YBS have done something wrong 
when not paying Mrs B the balance, Id need to be satisfied that it was most likely the 
account was still open with an outstanding balance. And in this situation, I dont think thats 
the case.
Im aware when Mrs B found the passbook, it showed an outstanding balance of £2807.99. 
And that it was only marked as closed when she provided the passbook as evidence to YBS 
in order to assist them in paying her the balance that remained. I can understand why Mrs B 
would be concerned by this but YBS have explained this wouldve been done when they 
failed to find details of the account as they assume the account had been closed at this time. 
So, I dont think they did anything wrong by doing this. But I also dont think the passbook 
being marked as closed should have any bearing on the decision Ive made. 
So, Ive considered the testimonies of both Mrs B and YBS. Mrs B has explained she thinks 
its unfair to assume the account had been closed as the passbook showed otherwise. And 
shes explained it wouldnt have been possible to withdraw the funds without the passbook. 
So, if the funds had been withdrawn, she thinks the passbook wouldve been stamped. And 
it wasnt.
But YBS have explained balances could be withdrawn and accounts closed without a 
passbook in certain circumstances. Theyve explained passbooks could be lost as so they 
would close accounts and pay balance if they were still able to verify the identity of a 
customer. So, while I cant say this is what definitely happened, I do think it was possible for 
Mrs B to have withdrawn the balance and closed the account without the need for the 
passbook.
And YBS have explained when they merged with Building Society C in 2011, all open 
accounts were transfers and a new account number provided to them. And they also 
contacted the customers of these accounts to explain this. Ive seen no evidence to show 
Mrs B received any contact from YBS, nor that she was provided with a new account 
number.Ive also seen screenshots of YBSs attempts to search for Mrs Bs accounts on their 
systems. Ive seen the details of the account were unable to be located using the account 
number, Mrs Bs name, date of birth and the address linked to the account. I think if Mrs B 
did have an open account on YBSs system, it wouldve been found through these searches. 
And as it wasnt, I think its most likely that Mrs Bs account was closed, and the balance 
withdrawn, before the merger between Building Society C and YBS in 2011. Because of this, 
I cant say YBS have acted unfairly when not paying the balance shown in the passbook to 
Mrs B and so, I dont think they need do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs B was hoping for. And I can understand her 
frustration as neither I nor YBS are able to provide an exact explanation of when the account 
was closed or how it happened. But as I think its most likely to have happened more than 
six years ago, this information is no longer available. And as I explained previously, I 
wouldnt expect YBS to be able to provide this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Yorkshire Building 
Society trading as Chelsea Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman