DRN-3492640
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled his claim for accidental 
damage on his contents insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr S had a contents insurance policy with Ageas. In February 2021 he made a claim after an 
accident that resulted in a set of shelves falling over, smashing a vase and a number of 
other items. This included two tablets and a smart phone. 
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster however Mr S made a complaint about the way theyd 
spoken to him when they made contact. So Ageas sent a different company out to inspect 
the damage and validate the claim. After the visit Ageas said it would need the first company 
to inspect the electrical items in order to complete the validation. It tried to arrange a date for 
the items to be picked up, but werent able to as it couldnt get hold of Mr S.
Following this Mr S made a complaint. He said there had been unacceptable delays to his 
claim. He said hed provided enough information for the claim to be validated, so didnt think 
it necessary for the electrical items to be inspected again. He thought Ageas should settle 
the claim based on the information he had already provided.
Ageas didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said in order to accept a claim it needs to take steps 
to validate it and inspecting the electrical items is part of that. It also said while thered been 
delays to the claim these were largely caused by Mr S as it hadnt been able to contact him 
for long periods. However it accepted it had provided poor service on a call Mr S made to its 
customer service team, and provided feedback to the team member. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this, he said hed provided Ageas with photos of the items as well as 
bills for their usage. And its loss adjuster had inspected the items on their first visit, so he 
didnt understand why any further inspections were necessary. He brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator considered everything but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said Ageas is entitled to validate the claim how it sees fit and it hadnt been able to carry out 
this process, so it was fair that it hadnt yet paid the claim. She also thought that the delays 
to the claim had been caused by Mr S as Ageas hadnt been able to get hold of him.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, the insurer will first need to validate the claim. This 
means it will need to assess that there has been an incident covered by the policy and 
decide how best to settle it  either by repairing or replacing the damage items. How the 
insurer chooses to do this will vary depending on the circumstances of the claim.
Here, I can see that Ageas sent out a loss adjuster who asked Mr S some questions and 
inspected the damaged items. And I can see Mr S has provided a number of different photos 
and documents to show that he owned the items. So I can understand why he is frustrated 
that the claim still hasnt been validated.
However Ageas has explained that the loss adjuster that attended Mr S home did so to get 
a better idea of how the accident happened. But wasnt an electrical specialist. So while they 
looked at the items and could see theyd been damaged, they werent qualified to assess the 
damage in detail. Another company was required in order to carry out these further checks. 
It isnt unusual that different companies will be used to validate different parts of the claim, 
especially where expertise is required, as it is with electrical items. So I dont think this is 
unreasonable.
Further, from the correspondence provided, Ive seen that Ageas made efforts to try and 
ensure the items were collected in order to be validated in way that would cause minimal 
disruption to Mr S. However it seems the only reason this hasnt been carried out is because 
it was unable to get in touch with him.
Based on this I dont think Ageas had treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably. Its reasonable 
that Ageas required the electrical items to be inspected by experts. And I cant see that it 
could have doe anymore to speed up this process for Mr S. So I wont ask it to do anything 
further.
Ageas has said that in order to move the claim forward, it will need to arrange for its experts 
to inspect the electrical items. Should Mr S want to proceed with the claim, he can contact 
Ageas directly to arrange this.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman