DRN-3415937
The complaint
Miss S complains that HSBC UK Bank plc have paid her less than they quoted her when she 
exchanged a foreign cheque and she would like the amount she was quoted.  
       
What happened
Miss S received a cheque in Australian dollars (AUD) to the value of 49,832.54 AUD. 
She says that when she banked it with HSBC, she was told that the value was £27800 GBP. 
She was told the cheque could take 16 days to clear, and she rang several times to check 
what was happening. On each occasion she was told the value was £27,800 GBP.
However, when the cheque cleared it was only worth £26,400 GBP.
Miss S complained to HSBC about the discrepancy. 
In August 2021 HSBC sent their final response. They said that having reviewed the calls, 
Miss S was not advised how much the cheque would be for. 
Miss S was unhappy with this response and brought the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. 
Miss S disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
Miss S paid her cheque into HSBC on 11 June 2021 and it was credited to her account on 2 
July 2021, which was the 15th working day after it was deposited. 
HSBC have sent me information about how they process foreign cheques. They hold a cash 
letter agreement with Australia, which means that cheques in AUD are sent for collection. 
This means that the money cant be credited to the customers account until it is settled by 
the foreign bank, which will be on the 15th working day after it is paid in, and the customers 
account will be credited on the 16th working day.  
When the funds were paid into Miss Ss account on 2 July 2021, she was sent a letter 
confirming the amount received was £26478.50 GBP using an exchange rate of 1.882, and 
there were charges of £28.00 deducted.
 
The letter also advised Miss S of the terms and conditions of international cheques. The 
letter said:
In certain circumstances we may not be able to negotiate a cheque. Where possible, we will 
send such items for collection. Collection of a foreign cheque means that we will credit your 
account only when we have received the money from the bank which it is drawn. For a 
cheque that we will collect we will deduct a fee from the proceeds at the time we received 
them. If it is not paid, we will charge a fee at the time we received unpaid notification 
I am therefore satisfied that HSBC have followed their process for collecting and paying 
foreign cheques and they havent delayed in processing the cheque in line with their 
process. 
I have then considered whether Miss S was given incorrect information when she called 
HSBC which led her to believe she was to receive more than she did. 
I have listened to 5 calls provided by HSBC that Miss S made to them, from both before and 
after she deposited the cheque. 
Miss S called HSBC on 8 June 2021 to discuss an international cheque that she had 
deposited previously and to advise that she was depositing a further cheque that she had 
received from abroad. Miss S told the call handler that she thought the cheque would be for 
the equivalent of £27800 GBP. However, the call hander didnt confirm the amount during 
that call. Miss S subsequently paid the cheque in on 11 June. 
There are four further call recordings from after the deposit was made - on 15 June, 21 June 
and two on 1 July. During these calls Miss S asks about her balance and expresses 
frustration about how long the cheque is taking to clear, as she needs it urgently.  On three 
occasions she is asked how much the cheque is for, and she responds by saying I dont 
know and then gives an approximate figure, which varies in each call. However, I am 
satisfied that the HSBC call handlers dont confirm an exchange figure in any of these calls.
Therefore, I am unable to find any evidence that HSBC misled Miss S regarding the amount 
that she would receive in GBP when her cheque cleared.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about 
HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman