DRN-2163697
The complaint
Mrs T says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs T took out a secured loan with Lloyds in 1991. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy. Mrs T paid a monthly amount for the policy. If shed made a successful claim on the 
policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have covered her monthly loan 
repayments for up to 12 months.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs T disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken
this into account when deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of the loan agreement or PPI application. I dont think thats 
surprising or unreasonable, given that Mrs T took out the loan around 29 years ago. 
Mrs T says that Lloyds didnt point out to her that the PPI was optional, and she believed 
that the insurance was compulsory. But I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds didnt make it 
clear to Mrs T that she didnt have to take the policy, based purely on her recollection of 
a meeting that took place so many years ago.
Lloyds and Mrs T agree that Lloyds recommended the PPI to her. This means it had a 
responsibility to check that it was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ts circumstances at the time.
Mrs Ts told us shed have been entitled to generous sick pay from her employer. She 
says shed have received 12 months pay if shed been off sick. Based on what we know 
of typical conditions for people in Mrs Ts line of work. I think its likely that some of that 
time would have been at a reduced rate of pay  for example six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay. If Mrs T had made a successful claim on the PPI for 
accident or sickness, it would have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. 
And the policy would have paid the same benefit if Mrs T had made a successful claim 
for unemployment. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments 
Mrs T received from her employer. So shed have been able to use those to meet other 
expenses.
Mrs Ts told us she had significant savings at the time. But Ive borne in mind that shed 
chosen to take out a loan, rather than use her savings. And its apparent from a letter 
that Lloyds sent Mrs T when the loan was advanced that it was being used, in part, to 
repay a previous loan. Mrs T has explained that it was just easy to get a loan, and to 
keep her savings in the bank so that she had something to fall back on in case of 
emergency. Having the PPI would have allowed her to continue to protect her 
emergency fund for future use.
I acknowledge that Mrs Ts told us that her husband was retired and had a steady 
pension income. But I think its likely that their household income would have dropped 
noticeably if Mrs T had been off sick for an extended period. And although Mrs Ts 
mentioned that she had a life assurance policy connected to her mortgage, thats a 
different type of policy, providing a different type of cover. So I dont think it made the PPI 
unsuitable for Mrs T. Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been 
useful to her.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover - for example 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements. But from what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mrs T would have been affected by 
any of these. So Im not convinced that better information about the policy would have 
put Mrs T off taking it out.
Im not sure whether Lloyds told Mrs T how much the PPI would cost before she agreed 
to take it. But the monthly cost of the policy was shown clearly on a letter from Lloyds 
confirming that the loan advance had been made. And the letter refers to the cover being 
set up in accordance with terms and conditions of issue previously notified to Mrs T. On 
balance I think its likely that Mrs T knew how much the PPI would cost before she 
agreed to take it out. And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at 
any time without further cost if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no 
longer wanted the cover.
Ive taken account of all Mrs Ts comments, including what shes said about having felt 
pressured into taking the PPI. But while Lloyds advisor may have recommended the policy, 
pressure is a different matter, and I cant fairly decide that unfair pressure was put on Mrs T 
to take the policy without stronger evidence. On balance, I think she decided to take the PPI 
because she wanted the cover that it offered.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mrs T. Its always difficult to decide 
a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what shes told us. 
And Im not persuaded, on balance, that I can fairly and reasonably uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman