DRN-3667360
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the way a claim he made under his Home Emergency (HE) 
policy was handled by the insurer AWP P&C SA (AWP) 
All reference to AWP in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr N reported loose tiles on his roof following a storm to AWP. AWP 
arranged for a contractor to attend and where necessary carry out temporary repairs (or 
permanent repairs if these costs were the same) in line with the policy. 
Mr N complained to AWP. He was very unhappy with the way the contractors behaved and 
the way they spoke to him. Mr N said the contractors didnt carry out any repairs. Mr N said 
that he since arranged for repairs to the roof to be done and his roofer included repairs to 
make the roof watertight. Mr N said the contractors instructed by AWP failed to carry out 
repairs to fix an existing leak. Mr N wanted AWP to cover the costs of internal repairs and 
pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
AWP apologised to Mr N for the upset caused by the contractors visit. It said it had provided 
feedback to the contractors. AWP said the notes from the contractor showed they had found 
the roof to be watertight as the roof felt had recently been replaced. But the contractor found 
numerous roof ridges to have come loose due to poor workmanship. The contractor had 
safely removed the ridges and so AWP said it had acted correctly. 
Mr N remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought AWPs approach in giving 
feedback to the contractor and its apology to Mr N for his experience was reasonable. 
The Investigator explained that the information didnt show Mr N had reported a leak to AWP 
when reporting the damage - or since - until his roofer carried out repairs in April 2022. 
Taking this into account the Investigator didnt think it implausible that further bad weather 
had caused a leak after AWPs contractor attended.
Mr N didnt agree. He said he made many calls to the contractor and AWP. He said the 
contractor failed to inspect the loft for signs of a leak when they attended and had promised 
to return but didnt. 
The Investigator asked AWP if it had any notes of calls from Mr N since he first reported the 
damage in January 2022. It said it didnt. The Investigator said there was no evidence but 
told Mr N he may have phone records to support his account. 
Mr N reiterated his complaint points but didnt provide any new evidence. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has made detailed submissions about his complaint. I can assure Mr N that Ive 
considered everything he has told us. My decision focuses on the salient issues of his 
complaint. 
The purpose of the HE policy Mr N holds with AWP is to provide emergency assistance for 
damage to his property. 
I understand Mr N says that he wasnt in a position to check the loft for signs of a leak in 
January 2022 when he reported the damage to his roof. 
The contractor instructed by AWP to carry out HE repairs reported the following:
Numerous ridges had blown loose due to poor workmanship. 
The roof is watertight due to recently being re roofed so roofing felt is underneath. 
Made roof safe by removing loose ridges and putting them in garden.
Ive looked at what Mr Ns HE policy with AWP says about repairs. The policy reads:
We will make a permanent repair if this can be carried out during the same visit and 
at a similar cost to the temporary repair. If a permanent repair is not possible or the 
cost difference is significant, we will make a temporary repair and you will need to 
replace this with a permanent repair at your own cost within 30 days.
AWP defines the term temporary repair under the policy as:
Repairs and / or work immediately required to stop further damage being caused by 
the emergency. You will need to replace this with a permanent repair at your own 
cost within 30 days.
Mr N has provided a copy receipt from his roofer which sets out the works done in April 2022 
as:
gable end roof tiles rebedded and replaced new where required. To make 
watertight.
I appreciate Mr Ns experience with the contractors instructed by AWP was a negative one 
and caused him upset. I dont doubt Mr Ns account. But without any evidence of what 
happened I think AWPs approach to put things right here was enough. It apologised for the 
experience Mr N had and it gave feedback to the contractors.
I havent seen anything to show that Mr Ns roof wasnt watertight and that the contractors 
findings in January 2022 were inaccurate. The receipt from Mr Ns roofer in April 2022 
doesnt have enough detail for me to make a finding that AWP did anything wrong. I havent 
seen anything to show me that Mr N reported the leak to AWP when he reported the 
damage to the roof - or since - until he sought reimbursement for the roof repairs he paid for 
in April 2022. 
I understand Mr N will be very disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I 
cant say that AWP acted unreasonably. So Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman