DRN-3215267
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim made on
their travel insurance policy.
All references to ERGO include its representatives.
What happened
Around 19 July 2019, Mr and Mrs W took out a gold worldwide, single trip, travel insurance
policy underwritten by ERGO (the policy) to cover a prolonged trip abroad.
The policy covered the period 30 July 2019 to 20 July 2020. Mr and Mrs W had planned to
visit many countries during their trip and the Schedule of Insurance reflects that
Australia is the country they would be spending most time in.
As part of their trip, on 20 March 2020, Mr and Mrs W were due to fly from one country in
Asia (country 1) to another country in Asia (country 2). Theyd pre-paid for flights and
accommodation.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential international
travel on 17 March 2020, initially for a period of 30 days. So that guidance remained in place
at the time Mr and Mrs W were due to depart country 1 for country 2.
Mr and Mrs W promptly contacted ERGO. Given the FCO advice, Mr and Mrs W felt they
shouldnt fly to country 2 as planned. They said it was difficult to book flights back to the UK
from country 1. And rather than cutting their trip short and returning to the UK, they asked
whether the policy would cover them if they booked a flight directly to Australia as they could
stay with family there.
Mr and Mrs W were told that a claim would only be considered under the policy, if they
returned to the UK and they werent given any assurance that theyd be covered if they
continued to travel.
Mr and Mrs W cancelled their plans to fly to country 2 on 20 March 2020, and instead
managed to book an indirect flight back to the UK, departing country 1 on 20 March 2020.
They made a claim on the policy for the costs of their flight home, the unused flights from
country 1 to country 2, pre-paid accommodation in country 2 and visas. They subsequently
managed to get a refund for the flights to country 2 from the airline.
In early June 2020, ERGO declined the claim because the reason which led to Mr and Mrs
Ws trip being cancelled wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. It said
that the policy didnt cover claims caused or contributed to by or on the order of any
government, public or local authority.
Mr and Mrs W didnt think that was fair so complained to ERGO. When responding to their
complaint, ERGO also said the cancellation/amendment section of the policy listed specific
reasons for which ERGO would provide cover if a trip was cut short. And the circumstances
surrounding Mr and Mrs Ws claim didnt fall within those reasons.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs W complained to our Service. Our investigator upheld their complaint.
Although, the trip was cut short for a reason not listed in the cancellation/amendment section
of the policy terms, there was also an exclusion in the policy limiting cover if theyd travelled
against the advice of the FCO. So, if Mr and Mrs W hadnt cut short their trip and had
travelled on to country 2 as planned, they wouldnt have had cover under the policy.
As such, our investigator didnt think it was fair and reasonable for ERGO to decline the
claim for the reason it did. He concluded that it would be fair and reasonable for ERGO to
treat the claim as covered under the cancellation/amendment section of the policy. And
recommended ERGO assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the
policy.
ERGO didnt agree. It reiterated that the specific insured perils for which a claim may be
considered are clearly set out in the policy terms. As the circumstances giving rise to the
claim made by Mr and Mrs W fell outside of those insured perils, it said it was unable to
consider the claim. It also provided comments from its underwriter.
The complaint was then passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision in 
November 2021 explaining, in a bit more detail, why I was also intending to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below: 
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case in his view dated 19 July
2021.
The investigator also highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to
this complaint.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)
The IPID provided to us by ERGO says at the top of page 1 that:
 This Insurance Product Information Document is only intended to provide a
summary of the main coverage and exclusions, and is not personalised to your
specific individual needs in any way. Complete pre-contractual and contractual
information on the product is provided in your policy documentation
Under the heading What is insured? on page 1 of the IPID, it says:
Cutting short your trip  up to £5,000
And, under the heading, Where am I covered? on page 2 of the IPID it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For
further details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
The policy terms and conditions
Page 6 of the policy terms and conditions says:Please read the Policy Wording carefully to understand what this policy covers.
Pages 36 and 37 of the policy terms and conditions set out the amendment/cancellation
terms. Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, the policy will pay for a policyholders:
pre-booked unused travel and accommodation expenses that You have paid, or
have agreed to pay, under a contract which You cannot get back if it is necessary
and unavoidable for You to cancel or cut short Your Journey as a result of:
You dying, becoming ill or injured.
 the death, injury or illness of a Close Relative, Business Associate, Your travel 
companion or a Close Relative or friend living overseas with whom You plan to stay.
You being called for jury service or as a witness (but not an expert witness or where 
Your employment would normally require You to attend court) in a court of law.
an accident to a vehicle in which You were planning to travel which happens within 
seven days of the date You planned to leave which leaves the vehicle unusable (this 
applies to self-drive Journeys only).
if You are a member of the armed forces or police, fire, nursing or ambulance 
services and You have to return to duty because of an emergency.
You being made redundant from full-time, continuous, permanent employment as 
long as You are entitled to payment under the current redundancy payments law and 
that, at the time of booking Your Journey it was unforeseeable.
the police needing You to stay after a fire, flood or burglary at Your Home less than 
48 hours before the date You planned to leave.
You having to retake or resit any exam which counts towards Your final qualification 
as part of You attending a university or any other tertiary education institution, subject 
to the dates of these exams not having been made public prior to the Relevant Time.
You becoming pregnant after You have purchased the policy and You will be more 
than 32 weeks pregnant (24 weeks for multiple pregnancy) at the start of, or during 
Your Journey or Your doctor advises You are unfit to travel due to complications of 
pregnancy.
Under the amendment/cancellation section of the policy (at pages 37 and 38), there are
specific exclusions which set out what ERGO wont pay for.
At page 38, it says ERGO wont pay for:
claims caused or contributed to by or on the order of any government, public or local
authority.
Ill refer to this as the government order exclusion.
Pages 63 to 66 of the policy set out the general exclusions which apply to the policy.
And page 65, clause 19, says ERGO wont pay for:
loss, damage, expense or indemnity incurred as a result of travelling to an area that
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised against travel, provided that
such loss, damage, expense or indemnity is directly or indirectly related to any
circumstances that are the reason for the advice.
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion.
Ill now explain what this all means in the context of this complaint and why I currently think
ERGO hasnt acted fairly and reasonably when declining Mr and Mrs Ws claim for thereasons it has.
(a) The FCO exclusion
Mr and Mrs W were due to travel on from country one to country two. But they curtailed their
trip because ERGO gave them no assurance that theyd be covered if they continued their
trip in either Country 2 or Australia. So, based on the available evidence, ERGO would have
considered Mr and Mrs W to have been travelling against the advice of the FCO, if theyd
have continued with their trip as they wanted to.
Cutting short a trip for this reason isnt one of the specific, listed insured events for which
curtailment cover is provided. This means Mr and Mrs Ws claim isnt covered under the
terms and conditions of their policy.
However, having taken into account industry guidelines and the relevant law, I dont think its
fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Mr and Mrs W to have no cover when they had to
curtail their trip. Ill explain why.
ERGOs reliance on the FCO exclusion means, if the Mr and Mrs W had continued with their
trip, they would they would have had no cover whatsoever under their policy. So, the policy
would have been no use to them. And they werent covered if they travelled on to country
two or Australia. They werent covered if they curtailed their trip, but they also had no cover if
remained abroad.
Mr and Mrs W would have needed to cross refer between page 2 of the IPID, the
cancellation/amendment section of the policy and the general exclusions to understand that
there was no cover if they had to cut short their trip because of a change in FCO advice
mid-way through their itinerary.
I dont think the exclusion of cover from claims arising from changes to FCO advice was
clearly highlighted to the consumer in the IPID, and I dont think this was easily
understandable from the policy documents either.
The cancellation/amendment section of cover doesnt list changes in FCO advice as an
exclusion so Mr and Mrs W would need to read the terms and conditions of the policy from
beginning to end to understand the full effect of the policy. I dont think this is fair or
reasonable, and I think a reasonable consumer would expect an exclusion like this to be
brought to their attention in a more prominent and transparent way.
Overall, I think the way the documents were presented means the combined effect of the
policy wasnt clear to the consumer. The consumer had no cover at all when FCO advice
changed and I think this created a significant imbalance between the rights of the Mr and
Mrs W and the rights of ERGO.
I dont think this is fair and I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs W would have bought the
policy if theyd realised there would be no cover under the policy if FCO advice changed
after the cover was purchased.
So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for ERGO to treat the claim as covered under the
cancellation/amendment section of the policy.
(b) The government order exclusion
ERGO also sought to rely on the government order exclusion when initially declining
Mr and Mrs Ws claim. And Ive thought about whether its fair and reasonable for it to do soin the circumstances of this case.
I dont think it is because on 17 March 2020, when the FCO advised against all but essential
travel, it was made clear that there was no instruction for British citizens to cut short their trip
and return home. The government advice said:
We are not currently advising British people to immediately return to the UK if they
are overseas, except for a few countries detailed in our travel advice.
However, British people should keep in mind that flights may be cancelled at short
notice or other travel restrictions may be put in place by foreign governments.
If people do want to return to the UK soon, then they need to take account of the fast 
moving situation and plan accordingly, while flights remain available in many places.
That advice didnt change until 23 March 2020 when the FCO advised British people
travelling abroad to immediately return to the UK, if commercial flights were still available.
So, I dont think that there was an order of any government, public or local authority to return
home to the UK on 17 March 2020.
Response to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs W accepted my provisional findings. 
ERGO disagreed. It referred me to previous final decisions issued by our Service which 
werent upheld. In those cases, ERGO says the government order exclusion referred to 
above meant that it was fair and reasonable not to consider the claim under the travel 
insurance policies relevant in those complaints. ERGO asked that I reconsider Mr and Mrs 
Ws in light of those cases. And although the circumstances werent identical in all the cases, 
it says the overriding principles are the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Ive considered the final decisions referred to by ERGO. I think the circumstances of those 
complaints are materially different to the one Ive been asked to decide. Further, they 
concern cancellation claims and the exclusion relied on in the travel insurance policies is 
worded differently to the government order exclusion which is contained in the policy taken 
out by Mr and Mrs W. 
In any event, each complaint is decided on its individual circumstances. And here, for the 
reasons already set out in my provisional decision  outlined in the background section of 
this final decision  I remain satisfied that ERGO hasnt fairly and reasonably declined Mr 
and Mrs Ws claim. And I think it would be fair and reasonable for ERGO to treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation/amendment section of the policy.
Putting things right
I direct ERGO to assess the claim as if its covered as an insured peril under the
cancellation/amendment section the policy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of
the policy  including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the policy, and the applicable
excess.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman