DRN-4394203
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the service she received from Nationwide Building Society
surrounding the restricting of her debit card.
What happened
Mrs H noticed that a debit card payment hadnt been processed and so contacted 
Nationwide to ask why. Mrs H was told that they had restricted her debit card and that a
replacement debit card would be provided to her. Mrs H was also told that her existing card
could no longer be used and that if she needed to withdraw money from her account, she
would have to visit a Nationwide counter service branch. Mrs H wasnt happy about this and
felt that Nationwide should have contacted her about her debit card rather than simply
blocking it. So, she raised a complaint.
Nationwide responded to Mrs H and explained that theyd received a notice from the card
provider  the company whose logo is on the debit card  that her debit card details may
have been compromised. And Nationwide also explained that their process when they
receive such a notice is to immediately block the potentially compromised debit card to
mitigate against the possibility of potential fraud and to send a replacement card to their
customer. Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response and felt that their process
wasnt fit for purpose. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Nationwide had followed their
process correctly, but that in doing so had caused a degree of trouble and upset to Mrs H
that reasonably should have been avoided. Our investigator therefore recommended that
this complaint be upheld in Mrs Hs favour and that Nationwide should make a payment of
£100 to Mrs H for the worry and inconvenience shed incurred.
Nationwide didnt agree with our investigator and didnt feel they should reasonably be asked
to compensate Mrs H for correctly following a policy designed to protect her from potential
fraud. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
However, Nationwide noted that when Mrs Hs debit card was restricted, the chip and pin
function of the card remained active. This meant that Mrs H could have used her debit card
for chip and pin transactions while the replacement card arrived. Nationwide apologised for
this provision of incorrect information and offered to make a payment of £50 to Mrs H as
compensation for the upset and inconvenience it may have caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 October 2023 as follows:
It isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a business to make changes to its policies or 
processes. As such, while Im aware Mrs H doesnt feel that Nationwides processes 
surrounding the restricting of her debit card arent fit for purpose, it isnt for me to instruct 
Nationwide to change those processes, because I dont have any authority to do so.
However, it is within my remit to assess the fairness of Nationwides actions, including
regarding the process that Nationwide followed here. But having done so, I can also confirm
that I dont feel that Nationwide have acted unfairly towards Mrs H by following the
processes, including the restricting of her debit card, as they did.
This is because Nationwide have confirmed that they received a notice from the card
provider  the company who name is on the debit card  that Mrs Hs debit card details may
have been compromised. The card provider may have developed these concerns about the
security of Mrs Hs card details themselves, or they may have been notified by another party,
such as a merchant or the police. Whats important here is that when a business such as
Nationwide is notified by a card provider that card details may have been compromised, they
arent given the details of how this may have happened  only that it may have happened.
Nationwide, like all financial institutions, have an obligation to protect their customers
money. So, having been told that Mrs Hs debit card details may have been compromised,
Nationwide followed their process for when such notifications are received by them. This
involved restricting the functionality of Mrs Hs card  to ensure that if the card details had
been compromised, no unauthorised fraudulent transactions could occur  and to send a
replacement card to Mrs H. And Nationwides process in this regard seems both reasonable
and understandable to me, given Nationwides obligations as previously described.
Mrs H is unhappy that Nationwide didnt contact her more proactively, having restricted her
account, and that they only did so via posted letter. But Nationwide have confirmed that its
their process to contact customers by post in such circumstances, in part because they dont
consider other forms of communication to be sufficiently secure when an instance of
potential fraud might be taking place. Again, this seems reasonable to me, and I can only
reiterate that it isnt for this service to instruct a business to change its processes.
It should also be noted that the recurring debit card payment which alerted Mrs H that her
Nationwide account wasnt functioning as she expected was a transaction that Nationwide
only played a minor role in. This is because debit card transactions are processed by the
debit card provider. And, when such a payment doesnt complete, its usually the debit card
provider or the merchant which didnt receive the money which informs the account holder
that the payment has failed or that the money hasnt been received.
All of which means that I dont feel that Nationwide did anything wrong or acted unfairly by
following the processes that they did, having received notice from the debit card provider
that Mrs Hs debit card details may have been compromised. This isnt to say that Mrs H
wasnt troubled or worried by what happened. But it is to say that instances such of this are
an unfortunately necessary and unavoidable consequence of modern banking practices. And
I dont feel that Nationwide should fairly or reasonably be asked to compensate Mrs H for
acting as they did to protect her account.
However, Nationwide have acknowledged that when they spoke with Mrs H about the
restrictions on her account, she was incorrectly told that she wouldnt be able to use her
existing debit card while a replacement card was being sent to her. Nationwide have
apologised for this misinformation, and theyve offered to make a payment of £50 to Mrs H
as compensation for any upset or inconvenience this may have caused.
Nationwides offer of £50 compensation seems fair to me, in consideration of the impact that
the incorrect information may have had on Mrs H. And so, my provisional decision here will
be that I uphold this complaint in Mrs Hs favour on this limited basis only and thatNationwide must make a payment of £50 to Mrs H.
Mrs H responded to my provisional decision and made a point of correction. Specifically, in 
the What happened section of my provisional decision letter I had stated that Mrs H had 
noticed that a recurring debit card payment hadnt been processed. This was incorrect, and 
what happened was that Mrs H called the business in question and made a debit card 
payment over the telephone and received confirmation from that business during the 
telephone call that the payment had gone through.
Id like to thank Mrs H for correcting my understanding of what took place here. However, I 
dont feel that this makes a material difference to the outcome of this complaint. This is 
because the essential point of what happened  that a debit card payment didnt complete  
remains the same. Indeed, given that the business to which the payment was made 
confirmed the payment, it only strengthens my opinion that this business reasonably should 
have reached out to Mrs H when the payment it believed had been confirmed didnt 
subsequently complete  especially given the nature of the service that Mrs H had 
purchased from them.
Ultimately, it remains my position that Nationwide havent done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly by restricting Mrs Hs debit card here. And this is for the reasons as explained in my 
provisional decision letter. Similarly, my position also remains unchanged regarding how 
Nationwide chose to notify Mrs H solely by mail of the restrictions that they had placed on 
her debit card, again for the reasons as explained in my provisional decision letter. Indeed, 
given the circumstances as Ive described them  that Nationwide had received a notice 
from the card provider that Mrs Hs debit card details may have been compromised  Id 
potentially consider Nationwide to have acted negligently if they hadnt acted as they did.
I realise that Mrs H would like some reassurance that similar events wont happen again. But 
I hope that shell understand that it isnt possible to provide such reassurance. The 
obligations on financial institutions to protect their customers money means that caution will 
be, and reasonably should be, exercised by those institutions where they feel its necessary 
to do so. And this caution extends to how financial institutions attempt to communicate with 
their customers about such matters. Accordingly, it will always be incumbent on an account 
holder to monitor their accounts and on businesses to promptly notify customers if payments 
dont complete as expected. 
All of which means that my final decision will be as described in my provisional decision. 
Specifically, that while I will be upholding this complaint in Mrs Hs favour, Ill only be doing 
so on the limited basis that Nationwide must make a payment of £50 to Mrs H as 
compensation for their agent not referring Mrs Hs concerns correctly, which led to Mrs H not 
receiving a call back about those concerns as quickly as she should have.
I hope that Mrs H will understand, given all that Ive explained here, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Nationwide must make a payment of £50 to Mrs H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman