DRN-3083787
The complaint
Mr W complains about the suitability of the advice provided to him by Harvest Associates Ltd 
(Harvest) to transfer the value of his defined benefit (DB) British Steel Pension Scheme 
(BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
What happened
The history leading up to this complaint is well known to the parties and therefore I have only 
summarised events below.
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of 
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB schemes when their employers become insolvent.
On 31 March 2017, the BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was subsequently approved by 
the Pensions Regulator in August 2017.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits to a private arrangement (such as a personal pension plan).  
A deadline was set for members to notify scheme administrators of their choice in 
December 2017.
 
Mr W met with an adviser from Harvest in October 2017.  A transfer analysis and fact-find 
were prepared, which recorded the following, among other things:
He was 51 years old, married with two adult children.
He was employed earning around £45,000 per annum.
He had approximately 33 years of service within the BSPS. At retirement, this would 
provide an income of £31,910 each year from age 65 with the option to take tax-free 
cash and a reduced income of £22,092 each year. Spousal benefits were also 
available.
His home was valued at roughly £250,000, jointly owned with no mortgage.
He and his wife had savings and ISAs; no further details were provided. 
He was planning to retire at 60, or earlier, if possible, with an income of £18,000 per 
annum, levelling with state pension from age 67. His normal retirement age under the 
DB scheme was 65.
He was a member of his employers defined contribution (DC) scheme making 
contributions of £300 per month (net); this was matched by his employer. 
Mr Ws attitude to risk (ATR) was also assessed. After a risk profiling exercise and further 
discussions it was agreed his ATR was lowest medium.
It was also recorded that Mr Ws reasons for looking at transferring were because he wished 
to have control over [his] funds, access [his] pension in a flexible, tax efficient manner and 
achieve increased death benefits. 
Two TVAS reports were completed based on a retirement age of 65 and a cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of around £574,000, one with fees and charges included and the other 
excluding these figures. These showed that with the fees and charges included investment 
growth, or critical yield, of 7.1% was required to replace the benefits of the DB scheme at 
retirement. When fees and charges werent included, the critical yield needed was calculated 
to be 6.4%.
A third TVAS report was later produced using a CETV of £592,899.99. This showed the 
critical yield needed to match benefits if Mr W were to take a tax-free cash lump sum and a 
reduced pension was 6.8%. Cashflow analysis showed that if Mr W were to take an annual 
income of £31,910 (equal to the final salary pension from age 65 without a cash lump sum) 
this fund would exhaust at age 88. Additional cashflow analysis showed if he were to take an 
income of only £12,000 from age 60 (levelling off with the stage pension from age 67) this 
fund would last until age 120.
Following advice from Harvest to transfer to a personal pension plan, on 15 November 2017 
Mr W completed an application for a flexi-access personal pension arrangement. The 
transfer completed in May 2018. 
Mr W complained to this Service in August 2020 following a letter from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) informing him that he may have been badly advised to transfer out of the 
BSPS. He said he felt that his financial security had been affected and wanted compensation 
to match his previous pension.
We let Harvest know of Mr Ws concerns and it looked into his complaint. Harvest responded 
setting out the reasons for Mr W wanting to transfer and concluded that the transfer had 
been suitable because it was the only way that met all of those objectives. It also said the 
actual growth rate of the funds hes invested in has been higher than the assumptions used 
at the time of advice, so Mr W is now in a better financial position than originally envisaged. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr W pursued his complaint with the Financial Ombudsman.  
An investigator upheld the complaint and thought Harvest should pay compensation in line 
with the FCAs redress methodology for unsuitable DB transfer advice as well as £350 for 
the distress caused.
 
In summary, the investigator felt Mr W was always likely to be worse off as a result of 
transferring as the growth required to simply match the benefits available under the DB 
scheme were unlikely to be achieved based on his circumstances and attitude to risk. But he 
also didnt think the TVAS had been properly conducted as it didnt consider retirement at 
age 60, which is what Mr W was planning. And he noted that the fact find recorded Mr W 
needed an income of £18,000 per annum in retirement, but the analysis was based on a 
yearly income of £12,000. The investigator wasnt persuaded this sum accurately reflected 
Mr Ws income needs in retirement given that this was substantially less than what he 
currently earned. He also didnt consider that Mr W had a genuine need to transfer at that 
time and that the objectives of flexibility and control werent controlling given Mr Ws age and 
time remaining to retirement when the advice was given. He wasnt persuaded the transfer 
had to happen when it did since Mr W was at least nine years from retiring. And he didnt 
understand why Harvest discounted the BSPS2 as an option in its suitability report. As a result, the investigator felt that the advice wasnt in Mr Ws best interests and if suitable 
advice had been provided, he thought Mr W would have ultimately moved his benefits to the 
BSPS2.
 
Harvest didnt agree. It said the investigator had placed too much weight on the critical yields 
and the guaranteed nature of the DB pension. Harvest also said all client specific objectives, 
including:
retire at age 60
income of 12k net per annum
to take pension benefits in a tax-efficient manner
to have flexibility in how pension benefits are taken
to have increased death benefits and a pension pot that can be inheritable
could be met by a transfer and not be met by the BSPS2 or PPF.  
And Harvest said Mr W would not have been happy with a level of risk as demonstrated in 
his risk profile, to accept a large proportion of his pension assets in one single company 
shares via the BSPS2 (the suitability report said BSAPS2 would be given a 33% equity 
stake in Tata Steel UK Limited). And that by advising a transfer when they did all of the 
client specific objectives could be met on a sustainable basis without jeopardising future 
financial security. It also referred to emails from Mr W which Harvest says expresses his 
concerns over securing the transfer within the timescales set out by BSPS. 
The investigator responded but wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He noted that the 
justification regarding the 33% equity stake was not a reason provided for the advice at the 
time it was given.
  
Harvest subsequently responded that if the complaint were to be upheld, redress should be 
based on a comparison to the PPF and not the BSPS2 as it did not yet exist at the time of 
advice.
 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed arguments and a lot of documentation to consider. And 
Id like to reassure them that Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided. If I dont 
comment on or refer to everything Ive been sent or that either party has said this isnt meant 
as a discourtesy or because I havent thought about it. Rather, it is because my decision will 
address what I consider to be the key issues in deciding what is fair and reasonable. This 
reflects the informal nature of this Service as an alternative to the courts. 
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that 
is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Harvests actions here.
 PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
 PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
 COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
 The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Harvest should have 
only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws best 
interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator - the advice to transfer to a 
personal pension plan wasnt in Mr Ws best interests. Had he been suitably advised I think 
he would have transferred to the BSPS2.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr W was 51 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 60. The critical yield required 
to match Mr Ws benefits at age 65 was 7.1% if he took a full pension. The critical yield 
needed to match benefits at age 60 was not provided, but it would be greater than 7.1% as 
there would be less time for investment growth. And its important to remember here that the 
effect of charges and fees associated with the initial and ongoing advice and the personal 
pension would further reduce the likely growth. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.1% per year for 13 years to retirement at age 65. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates have also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I agree with the investigator 
that there would be little point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the lowest relevant critical yield was 7.1% (6.8% if a cash lump sum was taken), I think 
Mr W was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme 
at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk. 
And Im not persuaded this was made sufficiently clear to Mr W as I note the suitability report 
recommending the transfer said: 
The growth rate required to match the benefits payable under the existing scheme at age 
65 are 6.8% per annum if a full pension is payable. You were happy to accept this in 
order to achieve your objectives, understanding that it is likely that the proposed plan will 
achieve this rate of growth and the pension payable is likely to be higher than the existing 
scheme.
This isnt accurate. First, the analysis demonstrated a growth rate of 7.1% was required if a 
full pension was taken. But critically, it also showed that Mr W was likely to be financially 
worse off as a result of transferring to a personal pension and investing in line with his lowest 
medium ATR. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ws best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Harvest 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Harvest is adamant that transferring to a 
personal pension arrangement was the only way to achieve all of Mr Ws objectives which it 
lists as being:
retire at age 60
income of 12k net per annum
to take pension benefits in a tax-efficient manner
to have flexibility in how pension benefits are taken
to have increased death benefits and a pension pot that can be inheritable
Ive considered each of these below.
Early retirement and income needs
In its comments to this Service Harvest said the clients overwhelming objective was to 
retire at age 60 and did not want the prescriptive nature of an occupational pension scheme 
or a PPF pension.
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr W might have genuinely hoped to retire early, Ive seen nothing 
that shows this was anything more than something he aspired to do at that stage, as 
opposed to being part of a formulated plan. I say this because Mr W was only 51 years old 
at the time of advice and from what Ive seen, he had no concrete plans for retirement at 
that point. Ive also noted that Mr W could have retired early as a member of the BSPS2 and 
the PPF.
So, even if I were to consider that Mr Ws retirement plans were more advanced than the 
mere aspirations set out by Harvest - and he really did want to retire early - I think Harvest 
should have more comprehensively assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst 
being a member of the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
Harvest also said Mr W wanted to have an annual income of around £12,000 in his 
retirement. Though I note that £18,000 was recorded in the fact find. Regardless of which figure was used, both are substantially below the £45,000 he was earning per year working. 
So I dont know how realistic this income estimate really is. As Ive explained above, 
retirement for Mr W, aged 51 at the time, was most likely still quite a few years away. In my 
view, what income hed need as a retiree could only really be an estimate at this point. 
Nevertheless, I still dont see any evidence to support a recommendation for Mr W to 
transfer away from a DB scheme to a personal pension for this reason. 
Even if I were to accept £12,000 was roughly what Mr W needed to fund a retirement, Ive 
seen nothing that shows the BSPS2 wouldnt have helped meet these needs anyway. And 
Harvest hasnt disputed this.
Flexibility and control 
Harvest said Mr W wanted control of his pension going forward and its investment strategy. 
However, theres no real evidence of what his personal involvement in money market type 
investing actually was. Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr W really had 
a capacity or desire to manage his pension if he transferred out to the extent that it was 
influential in his decision about what to do. There were certainly no advantages around 
cost in transferring out to a personal plan. In my view, Harvests statements about control 
over the funds are generic, and they dont explain how Mr Ws personal control would be in 
his best interests.
But I do accept that Mr W, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his 
pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and Harvest said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and Harvest said he could have more control over his pension fund.
So, its quite possible that Mr W was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because 
of the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. 
However, it was Harvests obligation to give Mr W an objective picture and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So when Harvest now says that not enough was known about the new 
scheme, I dont think thats right. Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were still 
being proposed at that very point, but we know a great deal about the timeline because 
weve seen many similar complaints to this one. Its possible this scheme may not have gone 
ahead, but I still think the benefits available to Mr W through the BSPS2 should have been 
factored in with this advice so that he was able to make an informed decision.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Harvest 
should have reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr W through the PPF would have still provided a 
significant portion of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was still unlikely 
to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR. And although the increases in 
payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any 
investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to Harvests 
recommendation to Mr W to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Harvest have also said that Mr W wanted the flexibility to take a variable income in 
retirement. However, I cant see that it was part of a formulated plan. I say this because 
Mr W was only 51 years old at the time of advice and from what Ive seen, he had no 
concrete plans for retirement at that point. And moving to the BSPS2 wouldnt preclude a 
future decision to transfer to a flexible pension arrangement should it become clear closer to Mr Ws retirement that this was suitable. So I am not persuaded that to achieve all of Mr Ws 
objectives the transfer had to happen when it did.
Furthermore, I dont think Harvest promoted the additional income and flexibility Mr W would 
enjoy at retirement as a result of joining his employers new DC scheme. He had already 
accrued a significant sum in this pension and both he and his employer would be 
contributing to this for at least another 9 years, even if retiring early. In my view, Mr W would 
have been in a good position: the DB pension (BSPS2) was guaranteed, and index linked; 
and the DC pension had the added flexibility were his circumstances to change. I think this 
fitted in very well with Mr Ws likely financial needs going forward. Harvest failed to 
adequately account for this when advising him.
Death Benefits 
Harvest says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr W died.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr W. But
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought
it was a good idea to transfer from the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Harvest explored to 
what
extent Mr W was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death
benefits.
Mr W was married, so this made the death benefits in BSPS2 very relevant to their situation.
In this context, I think the likely death benefits attached to the new DB scheme (BSPS2)
were underplayed because the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been
useful to Mr W if he predeceased her. I dont think Harvest made the value of this benefit 
clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
In any event, there may not have been a large sum left anyway in a personal pension upon
Mr Ws passing, particularly if he lived a long life. So I dont think the advice should have
implied his wife / children would benefit more from a personal pension. Furthermore, it
doesnt appear that Harvest took into account the fact that Mr W could have nominated
someone as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr W
had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Therefore, Im not persuaded that the different death benefits available through a transfer to 
a personal pension justified the likely decrease of the valuable retirement benefits
Mr W would enjoy through the BSPS2.
Summary
I dont doubt that the early retirement, flexibility, control, and the potential for higher death 
benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features 
to Mr W. But Harvest wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr W needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free, and increasing income within the DB scheme. By transferring to a 
personal pension, the evidence shows Mr W was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. 
And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer
and outweigh this. I think Harvest ought to have advised him against transferring out of his 
DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement. This is 
especially true considering that all the reasons provided for the transfer were not 
particularly time sensitive in the sense that Mr W was in good health and still had at least 9 
years before he hoped to retire. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme benefits to 
a personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties at the time that the BSPS2 was most likely going ahead. 
Mr W still had several years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have 
been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme 
entering the PPF. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr W would have retained the ability to transfer 
out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to, something that doesnt 
appear to have been considered by Harvest.
Also, I think he would have wanted to consider a wifes pension and that it would be set at
50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was
taken at retirement (if Mr W chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.
On this basis, I think Harvest should have advised Mr W to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered whether Mr W would have transferred to a personal pension in any event. 
I accept that Harvest disclosed some of the risks of transferring to Mr W and provided him 
with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it advised Mr W to transfer out, and I 
think he relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr W would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme,
against Harvests advice. I say this because Mr W asked Harvest for advice and this pension
also accounted for most of his retirement provision at that time. So, if Harvest had provided
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about the PPF were so great that he would
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his
best interests. So if Harvest had explained Mr W was also unlikely to exceed the benefits
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Harvest should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulators defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Harvests unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice. So, Harvest should use the benefits offered by the BSPS2 
for comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect. He has not 
expressed a preference. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W. 
For clarity, Mr W has not retired. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Harvest may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, itshould be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date Harvest receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Harvest to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Harvest to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
I have also considered the impact on Mr W of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £350 should be paid to Mr W by Harvest for what 
he referred to as the distress and inconvenience caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive 
taken into consideration all of the circumstances of this complaint, and I agree that Harvest 
should also pay Mr W £350 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice which 
has likely had an impact on his retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I now direct Harvest 
Associates Ltd to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Harvest Associates Ltd to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Harvest 
Associates Ltd to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Harvest Associates Ltd pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Harvest Associates 
Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.The loss assessment calculation should be provided to Mr W in an easy-to-understand 
format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman