DRN-4216159
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has unfairly settled his 
claim. 
What happened
Mr H took out a travel insurance policy with Admiral online. He cancelled his holiday due to a 
medical problem and made a claim. 
Admiral said Mr H didnt provide full and accurate information when asked about pre-existing 
medical conditions. It treated this as a careless qualifying misrepresentation and 
proportionately settled his claim. 
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld as he 
thought Admiral had acted fairly. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator as he said his GP had misrepresented his medical 
history and he had answered questions truthfully about any conditions within the last two 
years. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Admiral thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
failed to declare his heart condition.
Ive looked at the questions asked and I dont think Mr H took reasonable care when 
answering the question as it asks if he had ever suffered from a heart problem. Had Mr H 
declared his medical history accurately, Admiral would have charged an additional premium. 
Admiral has provided a re-screening with the correct information Mr H should have declared 
at the time he bought the policy, to show how much extra it would have charged. 
This means Im satisfied that Mr Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Admiral has treated Mr Hs misrepresentation as careless which produces the most 
favourable result for Mr H. Ive looked at the actions Admiral can take in accordance with 
CIDRA and settling the claim on a proportionate basis is the fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint.
Mr H says Admirals decision is based on incorrect information provided by his GP. He says 
his heart condition was treated in 2019 and does not go back to 2003 as noted by his GP. I 
can see Mr H sought to challenge this and provided additional information to Admiral which it 
reviewed. Admiral has shown and confirmed that it still would have charged the higher 
premium based on one episode. So I am satisfied that it has taken his correct medical 
history into account when assessing his claim.
Mr H also says he had accurately declared his two-year medical history when he bought the 
policy. But there is an additional separate question which asks if Mr H has ever been 
diagnosed with or treated for a heart or other specified conditions. On the application, Mr H 
had ticked yes and declared other conditions but hadnt declared his heart problem from 
2019. Had he done so, an additional premium would have been payable. 
Finally, Mr H isnt happy with the errors Admiral made and the length of time it took to deal 
with his claim. Ive seen that Admiral issued a cheque to Mr H for £70 compensation plus a 
further cheque for £50 compensation for delays, which I consider is reasonable. I dont think 
the delays in assessing the claim had a long-lasting impact and Im satisfied that the overall 
claim decision is correct. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman