DRN-3448616
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to refund over £40,000 he says he 
lost to an investment scam in 2020. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr K authorised the disputed payments he made to the 
merchant FXVC.EU using his HSBC debit card. The payments were requested by 
him using his legitimate security credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether there was any obligation on HSBC to have 
prevented Mr K from making the payments. But Im not satisfied there is. I appreciate 
that Mr K considers he has been the victim of a scam. But I do not consider there to 
be sufficient evidence to substantiate his claim. Rather, it appears that Mr K has lost 
money through an investment with a legitimate offshore broker dealing in high risk 
trades. 
There are also various elements of Mr Ks dealings with FXVC that indicate it is not a 
scam. For example, he has received credits of £7,450 back from the merchant. To 
receive such aa high amount back from a scammer would be very unusual in 
comparison to other investment scams, particularly after alleging that the merchant is 
fraudulent. FXVC also responded to Mr Ks complaint about it, and has maintained 
correspondence with him throughout, which would also be unusual for a fraudulent 
broker. I understand that the risks of the investment may not have been presented 
appropriately in the brokers promotional materials, which it has since been 
established were misleading. But that does not necessarily mean it was a fraudulent 
entity that had set out to dishonestly appropriate Mr Ks funds through deception. 
The broker was also regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission 
(Cysec) and still is. So, even if there was any reason for HSBC to have prevented 
these payments (which I do not consider there was), Im not persuaded that any 
questioning or discussion about the purpose of the payments would have likely 
resulted in Mr K thinking it was a scam, as he would have found that they were an 
offshore broker that was regulated in another jurisdiction. 
I appreciate an FCA supervisory notice was later published in April 2021 stating that 
the regulator had stopped FXVC from offering CFDs to UK investors due to its 
business practices and misleading promotional materials. But this notice does not 
state that FXVC was operating a scam, and I note that the broker has since referred 
the supervisory notice to the Upper Tribunal, which would be a highly unlikely course 
of action to be taken by a scammer. 
Even if I were to accept that the FCAs notice could constitute a scam warning, it was 
still published after Mr K had made his payments between April and July 2020. So 
even if HSBC had intervened, there would have been very little to suggest that the 
merchant was operating a scam, meaning any warning from HSBC to do further 
research on the brokers legitimacy would have been unlikely to yield any results that 
would have ultimately prevented the payments from being made. 
HSBC has no obligation to protect its customers from bad bargains or to provide 
investment advice. So, given the circumstances here, I dont consider HSBC was 
under any obligation to prevent these payments from being made under any of the 
codes Mr K has cited in his submissions. 
Ive also considered whether HSBC ought to have done more to recover the funds, 
as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the bank raising a 
chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr K used his debit card to 
pay a legitimate broker. So, he wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback 
claim in these circumstances because the company he paid had ostensibly provided 
the services as intended. Therefore, I do not think HSBC were under any obligation 
to raise a chargeback for Mr K either.
I note that Mr K has also raised concerns about how HSBC handled his complaint. 
However, complaint handling is not an activity regulated by the FCA (it is not the 
provision of a financial service, for example). So, Im afraid it is not something this 
service has the jurisdiction to be able to consider.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, and Im sorry to hear about the 
losses he has incurred. But I dont think HSBC can fairly or reasonably be held liable for 
those losses in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman