DRN-3576507
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Ageas Insurance Limited declined their travel insurance claim. 
My references to Ageas include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a single trip travel insurance policy, insured by Ageas. They had booked 
to go on a cruise in the summer of 2020 which was cancelled due to the covid-19 pandemic. 
The cruise provider wouldnt refund the cost but gave Mr and Mrs S credit to rebook a cruise 
at a later date. 
The cruise provider later altered its terms and conditions to require passengers to have 
received a vaccination against covid-19 before being allowed to travel. As Mr and Mrs S 
arent vaccinated they couldnt use the credit the cruise provider offered so they claimed on 
their travel insurance for the lost cruise costs. 
Ageas declined the claim. It said the reasons why Mr and Mrs S couldnt go on the cruise 
werent covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. They said they hadnt cancelled the cruise, it was the 
change to the cruise providers terms and conditions that meant they couldnt go. As the 
cruise provider wouldnt give a cash refund they thought the policy should cover the cost of 
the cruise.
Our investigator said Ageas had fairly declined the claim. Mr and Mrs S disagree and want 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision is only about whether Ageas fairly and reasonably declined Mr and Mrs S claim 
under their travel insurance policy. I understand Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that the cruise 
provider changed it terms and conditions from the ones that applied to the original booking. 
But this service only has the statutory power to look at complaints about financial services, 
not complaints about cruise providers.
The relevant rules and insurance industry guidance say that Ageas must handle claims 
promptly and fairly, and it mustnt reject a claim unreasonably. I find that Ageas reasonably 
declined the claim. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out Mr and Mrs S contract of insurance with 
Ageas. Insurers can decide what risks they want to insure and I need to consider what Mr  
and Mrs S policy says about their cover.
The policy terms and conditions say Ageas will cover a holiday cancellation (subject to the 
policy terms) in the following specific situations:
1.the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close 
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending 
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding 
or fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at 
your home; or
6. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.
Mr and Mrs S original cruise was cancelled by the cruise provider due to the covid-19 
pandemic, which isnt one of the reasons the policy gives cancellation cover for. If the cruise 
provider hadnt offered any refund or credit at that point Ageas wouldnt have covered the 
lost cruise costs as there was no cover under the policy.
The cruise provider did offer a credit note for a rebooking. Mr and Mrs S say they didnt 
cancel the planned replacement cruise. They were unable to go because they hadnt had a 
covid-19 vaccination as the cruise providers new terms and conditions required. But Ive 
looked through the policy terms and conditions and there is no cover for not being able to 
travel due to not being vaccinated or not being able to travel due to a change in the terms 
and conditions of the travel provider.
Im satisfied that there is no cover under the policy for the circumstances of Mr and Mrs S 
claim and I cant fairly say Ageas was unreasonable to decline the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman