DRN-4410409
Complaint
Miss M has complained about a loan which she says Mitsubishi HC Capital UK PLC (trading 
as Novuna Personal Finance) unfairly lent to her. She says that if her records had been 
checked correctly she wouldnt have been lent to.
Background
Novuna provided Miss M with a loan for £8,500.00 in October 2022. This loan had an APR of 
10.6% and the total amount to be repaid of £11,896.08, which included interest fees and 
charges of £3,396.08, was due to be repaid in 84 monthly instalments of around £141.62.
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss M and Novuna had told us. He thought that 
Novuna hadnt acted unfairly by providing this loan to Miss M and so didnt think that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Miss M disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ms complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Novuna needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Novuna needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Miss M could afford to make her repayments before providing 
this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Novuna says Miss Ms loan application was approved after she provided details of her 
monthly income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked Miss Ms 
declarations against information on a credit search it carried out. This included cross-
referencing Miss Ms declaration of income against the funds she received into her bank 
account each month. 
In Novunas view all of the information it gathered showed that Miss M could afford to make 
the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Miss M has said she had taken 
out a lot of credit in the lead up to this loan and this in itself ought to have led to further 
checks. And had these further checks been carried out it would have been apparent that she 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss M and Novuna have said. 
Its clear that Novuna did obtain some information about Miss M before it decided to proceed 
with her application. So it wasnt simply a case of Novuna accepting at face value that           
Miss M could repay this loan. And the information gathered does appear to suggest that, at 
the time at least, it was reasonable for Novuna to conclude the monthly loan repayments 
were affordable for Miss M. 
I accept that Miss Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Novuna obtained. I also accept that the real 
reason for any difficulty Miss M may be having making the payments to this loan is readily 
apparent when her bank statements are considered. I also accept that its possible  but not 
certain  Novuna may have reached a different conclusion had Novuna seen her 
statements. 
But what I need to think about here is whether Novunas checks were proportionate  not 
just what Miss Ms bank statements show. And given the information Novuna obtained, this 
being a first loan and the low monthly repayments required, I dont think that proportionate 
checks would have extended into obtaining bank statements from Miss M in this instance. I 
appreciate that Miss M says that her indebtedness was increasing rapidly. But her other 
borrowing didnt show up on the credit check  most likely because the borrowing in question 
was taken so soon before this loan. 
I think its also worth me explaining that Novuna could only make a reasonable decision 
based on the information it had available at the time. And Im satisfied that information 
gathered did appear to suggest that at the time at least, the monthly payments to this loan 
were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Novuna acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when lending to Miss M. It carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
and the information gathered suggested that the monthly payments were affordable. 
As this is the case, I cannot reasonably and do not uphold this complaint. I appreciate this is 
likely to be very disappointing for Miss M as its clear she feels strongly about this matter. But 
I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns 
have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint, I would remind Novuna of its continuing 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration should it be the case that Miss M 
experiencing difficulty making payments and it chooses to collect payments from her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman