DRN-3284681
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc approved her for credit accounts which she 
feels werent affordable for her at those times.
What happened
Ms C applied for a Capital One credit account in January 2017. Her application was 
approved, and Capital One issued Ms C with a credit account with a £200 credit limit.
In September 2017, Ms C applied for a second Capital One credit account. Her application 
was again approved, and Capital One issued Ms C with a second credit account, again with 
a £200 credit limit.
Ms C applied for a third Capital One credit account in February 2018. This application was 
also approved, and Capital One issued Ms C with another credit account, once again with a 
£200 credit limit.
In September 2021, Ms C raised a complaint with Capital One because she felt that shed 
been unable to afford all the credit accounts that Capital One had approved her for. Ms C 
also felt that this should have been apparent to Capital One, had they undertaken checks 
into her financial position before approving her applications. 
Capital One looked at Ms Cs complaint. But they confirmed they had undertaken checks 
into Ms Cs financial position before approving her for the credit accounts, and they felt that 
thered been nothing resulting from these checks that should have reasonably given them 
cause to suspect that Ms C might not be able to afford the credit she was applying for.
Ms C wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Capital One 
hadnt acted unfairly towards Ms C by approving her for the three credit accounts, and so 
they didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Ms C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that before approving a 
customer for credit, the business would undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that the credit being offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Capital One say that they did that here, and note that before each provision of credit they 
obtained information from Ms C about her annual income as well as used expected 
expenditure modelling to asses whether Ms C would in all likelihood be able to afford credit 
account under consideration. 
Additionally, Capital One confirmed that on each occasion they obtained information from a 
credit reference agency to get a better understanding of Ms Cs wider financial position. And 
in each instance Capital one maintains that there was nothing resulting from these checks 
that should have given them any cause to suspect that the credit Ms C was applying for 
might be unaffordable for her at those times.
When Ms C applied for the first credit account in January 2017, she declared to Capital One 
that she had annual income of £16,500. Capital One reviewed Ms Cs credit file, which didnt 
show any significant existing credit commitments, and when Capital One modelled the 
affordability of the applied for credit account they concluded it was likely that Ms C would be 
able to afford an account with a credit limit of £200, which they then approved Ms C for.
This doesnt seem unreasonable to me, especially given that the monthly minimum payment 
that would have become due on the account, had Ms C used close to the maximum amount 
of credit available to her, would have been approximately £7. I can therefore understand why 
Capital One would have concluded that such payments would in all likelihood be affordable 
for Ms C at that time, and as such I dont feel that Capital One acted unfairly towards Ms C 
by approving her for this credit account.
Ms C may point out that she had defaulted on previous credit commitments in the past, and 
that this should have been visible to Capital One on her credit file. Indeed, I note that Ms C 
had several such defaults, but that these all took place in 2014 and 2015. As such, given the 
length of time that had elapsed since the defaults took place, I dont feel that it was 
unreasonable for Capital One to have given greater importance to Ms Cs more recent credit 
history, which appeared to be unproblematic, and to have approved Ms Cs credit application 
as they did. And this is especially the case in consideration of the low amount of credit that 
they approved Ms C for.
When Ms C applied for the second credit account in September 2017, she declared to 
Capital One that she had an annual income of £17,500. Once again, Capital One reviewed 
Ms Cs credit file, which continued to show that Ms C had relatively low existing credit 
commitments at that time, and also continued to show that Ms C appeared to be managing 
her existing credit commitments without incident. 
Additionally, Capital One reviewed how Ms C had managed her first credit account. And 
while Ms C was maintaining the balance of that account near the £200 credit limit, she hadnt 
exceeded the credit limit or missed a payment on the account and appeared to be managing 
the account unproblematically. It therefore seems reasonable to me that Capital One, after 
modelling the affordability of a new account for Ms C, would conclude that Ms C would most 
likely be able to afford a second credit account with a £200 credit limit. And so, I dont feel 
that Capital One acted unfairly towards Ms C by approving her for this second credit 
account.
Finally, when Ms C applied for the third credit account in February 2018, she declared to 
Capital One that she had annual income of £18,500. Its notable that Ms Cs existing credit 
commitments had increased to approximately £2,250, but this balance remained reasonably 
low when considered against Ms Cs declared annual income. Furthermore, Ms Cs credit file 
showed that she wasnt in arrears on any of these other credit accounts and appeared to 
show that Ms C was managing her existing credit commitments without incident.
The same also appeared to be true in regard to Ms Cs management of her two other Capital 
One accounts, and while Ms C was maintaining the accounts near the agreed £200 credit limits, Ms C was making payments towards the accounts and maintaining the balance of the 
accounts within the credit limits. And while there was one exception to this on one of the 
accounts, where Ms C went over the credit limit and incurred an over-limit fee as a result, its 
notable that Ms C was able to make the payment necessary to bring that account back 
under the credit limit so that similar fees werent incurred in the months leading up to the 
third credit account application. 
As such, it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that Capital One would conclude that Ms C 
would in all likelihood be able to afford the third credit account with the limit of £200 that Ms 
C applied for. And I therefore dont feel that Capital One acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Ms C by approving her for that account.
Finally, Ive considered whether it was reasonable for Capital One to have approved Ms C 
for three separate accounts here, all with £200 credit limits, rather than looking to increase 
the credit limit on the first of Ms Cs credit accounts. But Ms C applied for three separate 
accounts, and there can be legitimate reasons why a person might want separate credit 
accounts  for instance, if that person wants to keep certain aspects of their finances 
separate from one another. As such, I dont feel that Capital One acted unreasonably or 
unfairly by providing Ms C with three separate credit accounts each with a £200 credit limit.
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Capital One have acted unfairly 
towards Ms C by approving her applications for credit here, and Im satisfied that Capital 
One did undertake checks into Ms Cs financial position before approving her for credit and 
that there wasnt anything resulting from those checks that ought reasonably have compelled 
Capital One to not offer credit to Ms C.
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms C was wanting, but it follows that my decision here will 
be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Capital One to take any further 
action at this time. I hope that Ms C will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman