DRN-4026996
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the advice he received about his taxi insurance policy from Extracover
Limited trading as Zego (Zego).
What happened
Mr G had a private-hire taxi insurance policy purchased via Zego. The policy ran for 30 days
and could be renewed when each period expired. In July 2022 Mr G contacted Zego and
they advised he would have four years no-claims discount (NCD) in October 2022 (including
the two years he came to Zego with, and two years since then). Mr G arranged insurance via
another provider from then on.
However, Zego only provided three years NCD rather than four. They said their agent had
given Mr G incorrect advice when calculating the amount, as they hadnt realised there had
been a gap in cover. Mr G was unhappy Zego had given him incorrect advice as this meant
he had missed out on a years NCD, so he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She accepted Mr G
had been given incorrect advice by Zego, but she said he hadnt earned four years NCD in
line with the policy terms, as he hadnt had consecutive policies with Zego.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Ive reached a different outcome to our 
investigator, so Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity 
to comment on my initial findings before I reach my final decision.
Zego say Mr G has had a gap in his insurance, and therefore he hasnt accrued two 
years NCD since hes been with them. Theyve referred to the policy terms which 
say:
No Claims Discount
As soon as you have 12 months or more continuous claims free cover with 
us, you will start to earn a no claims discount (NCD).
We will allow a NCD against your renewal premium if no claim has been 
made, or any accident likely to give rise to a claim has occurred, during the 
previous continuous 12-month period of insurance. The level of discount 
applied will be in line with our NCD scale, applicable at the time of renewal.
Mr G took out an insurance policy with Zego on 28 July 2020. The policy term was for 
30 days and could be renewed but ended on 26 August 2020. Mr G had a second 
30-day period of cover from 2 October 2020 to 31 October 2020. However, that 
policy wasnt renewed either. So, these two policies dont form part of the continuous 
cover Mr G had via Zego.
Another 30-day policy was taken out on 19 November 2020, and this was renewed
continually until October 2022. Having considered all the start and end dates of the 
policies, the continuous duration here was 23 months. So, Mr G only had one year 
and 11 months of continuous cover when the last policy ended. Therefore, Mr G only 
accrued one full year of NCD during this time. Consequently, I dont think Zego has 
acted unfairly by not providing two years NCD for this period.
However, Zego accepts that their agent gave Mr G incorrect advice. The agent told 
Mr G he would have four years NCD in October 2022 (he joined Zego with two years 
NCD already). However, the agent hadnt taken into account the gap prior to 
November 2020. So, Mr G wouldnt have actually had two years or 24 months 
continuous cover until the following month.
Mr G says that if Zego had told him the correct date, he would have renewed for 
another 30 days in order to accrue the extra year NCD, and I accept what Mr G has 
said here, as Im persuaded thats what he would have done. But as a result of the 
incorrect advice from Zego, Mr G moved elsewhere a month earlier than when that 
additional year NCD would have been earnt.
I recognise Zego has apologised for the incorrect advice Mr G was given. But I dont 
think this goes far enough to put things right for Mr G, as this doesnt take into 
account the actual impact of Zegos error.
I cant reasonably ask Zego to provide four years NCD (including the two years he 
came to Zego with). This is partly because Zego wasnt the insurer, but regardless, in 
any event, Mr G hadnt had 24 months continuous cover. So, he didnt actually 
accrue this and he left Zego with three years and 11 months. However, Im 
persuaded Mr G solely didnt earn this extra year on the basis of the incorrect advice 
Zego gave.
Determining the exact impact of Zegos incorrect advice on Mr G isnt possible. This 
is because Mr G has one year less NCD than he would have if it wasnt for the 
incorrect advice from Zego. And this will impact him on each renewal for at least the 
short to medium term. But quantifying that impact financially isnt possible.
I say this because Mr G can shop around for his insurance renewal each time its due 
(his new insurance is a 12-month policy rather than 30 days). Each insurer will quote 
differently based on their own risk rating, and applying their own criteria of any 
discounts for the NCD Mr G has. And different insurers will treat maximum NCD at 
different levels, with differing levels of discount applicable. And in the future, there 
could be claims made, or changes of vehicles, all of which will impact the price Mr G 
pays, alongside having one year less NCD than he should due to the incorrect advice 
from Zego.Mr G has explained that when he went to his new insurer, based on the incorrect 
advice from Zego, he told them he had four years NCD which resulted in the 
applicable discount. He then paid approximately an additional £150 to have the four 
years NCD protected. When Mr G then had to tell his insurer that Zego had only 
provided three years NCD (and the reasons for this), they reduced the NCD to three 
years and removed the protection as the earliest they could do this was with four 
years NCD, but they kept the price the same.
I think this gives a reasonable amount to base things on here for a potential cost 
impact in the short term. Essentially the base cost of the policy was £150 less for four 
years NCD than three. And its likely this will impact Mr G for at least the next two 
years. I say this as some insurers consider five years as maximum NCD, and based 
on Zegos incorrect advice, it will now take Mr G two years to get to that point rather 
than one year if they hadnt given the incorrect advice. So Im minded to conclude 
using this as an approximate difference to compensate Mr G for the next two years (a 
total of £300) is a fair and reasonable starting point for what Zego need to do to put 
things right in the short term.
As I say though, it may well impact Mr G beyond that point too. But quantifying how, 
or the amount, isnt possible given the variables that could happen. But I do need to 
take into account that Mr G may be at what some insurers deem maximum NCD in 
two years anyway, so it may not impact him with some insurers past that point.
However, this situation could have been completely avoided if Zego hadnt given the
incorrect advice to Mr G at the outset. And its clear this has impacted Mr G, but there 
is no way to quantify exactly how much in the future. So, unless anything changes as 
a result of the responses to my provisional decision, along with the £300 for the 
reasons Ive outlined above, Im also minded to direct Zego to pay an additional £200 
compensation for what happened and the additional impact and inconvenience to 
Mr G, as I think that is a fair and reasonable additional amount in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Zego to pay Mr G £500 
compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr G responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
Zego also responded and accepted my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I reached. Having done so, and 
as neither party has provided anything which would lead me to depart from the provisional 
decision I reached, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Extracover Limited trading as 
Zego to:
Pay Mr G £500 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman