DRN-1990641
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way in which Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) handled his 
chargeback claim.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr S booked a holiday through a retailer and paid £1137.90 using a 
credit card supplied by BOI.
Prior to Mr Ss holiday taking place, the retailer ceased trading. Mr S thought his holiday had 
been cancelled as a result and raised a chargeback claim with BOI.
BOI declined the chargeback. It said the holiday itself was provided by a third-party provider 
who was still trading and therefore the holiday was available for use.
Mr S brought his claim to this service. Hes unhappy that the chargeback was declined, and 
hes dissatisfied with the level of service provided by BOI.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the information showed that the 
holiday Mr S had booked was still available, and that because he hadnt provided any 
evidence to show that his holiday booking couldnt be fulfilled, BOI hadnt acted unfairly by 
declining the chargeback.
Mr S didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to say that BOI needs to refund the cost of the holiday. Ill 
explain why.
Mr S has raised several points in his submissions to this service. Ive considered all of these, 
but Ive concentrated on those which I think are most relevant to my decision.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary one. Its a process by which payment disputes are 
resolved between card issuers and merchants, under the relevant scheme rules. What this 
means here is that BOI can, in certain circumstances, ask for a transaction to be reversed if 
theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant, which in this case is 
the holiday company. But the chargeback proves doesnt give the consumer a legal right and 
it isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. 
There has to be a right to apply for a chargeback under the card scheme rules. Its at this 
stage that Mr Ss chargeback claim runs into difficulty. Ill explain why.
Mr S has said that he booked a holiday with a travel company. Hes also said that prior to his 
holiday taking place, the travel company ceased trading. On discovering this, and being 
concerned about his holiday, Mr S contacted BOI and was advised to apply for a chargeback 
and provide further information.
BOI has said it initially asked Mr S to provide confirmation that his booking wasnt ATOL 
protected. It says that when it received information from Mr S and attempted the chargeback, 
it was advised by the holiday companys bank that the holiday was still available for use, 
because the supplier of the holiday was a separate holiday provider and not the holiday 
company which had ceased trading.
Ive looked at the booking documents. These show that the holiday company whom Mr S 
booked with were acting as an agent. The provider of the holiday is a separate holiday 
provider.
I can see that BOI contacted Mr S and advised him to contact the holiday provider. Its not 
clear whether Mr S did this  hes explained that he tried to contact the holiday retail 
company several times, but I havent seen anything to suggest that he contacted the holiday 
provider. I think perhaps theres a degree of confusion here in that Mr S did not appreciate 
that the holiday retailer and the holiday provider were separate entities. Both companies 
have similar names so I understand why this may have been confusing. But Im satisfied that 
they are two separate companies and that importantly, the insolvency of the holiday retailer 
did affect the ability of the holiday provider to fulfil Mr Ss booking. 
Mr S hasnt provided any evidence to BOI to show that his holiday booking couldnt be 
fulfilled. BOI says it explained to Mr S that he needed to provide this evidence in order for a 
second chargeback attempt to be made. I cant see that Mr S provided any evidence to 
suggest that his holiday couldnt be fulfilled. So, I cant say that BOI made an error by re-
debiting the transaction.
I appreciate that Mr S feels that he received poor service from BOI. But having reviewed 
everything, I think BOI gave Mr S the correct advice to contact ATOL, based on its 
understanding of his booking at the time. When BOI later became aware that Mr Ss holiday 
provider was still trading and able to offer the holiday, I cant say that BOI had any other 
option but to decline the chargeback.
Mr S has told this service that he wants to make a section 75 claim to BOI. If Mr S can 
provide evidence that the holiday he booked wasnt honoured by the holiday provider, then I 
think it would be reasonable for BOI to consider a section 75 claim.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think BOI handled the chargeback claim unfairly. I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman