DRN-4282577
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Santander UK Plc blocked payments he had requested to be 
made from his current account. He has said that the payments were blocked in error by the 
bank.
What happened
On 1 January Mr N made a number of payments from his account. Of those, two were 
flagged by Santander for additional security checks, resulting in it contacting Mr N over the 
phone to ensure the payments were valid. Once Mr N had confirmed that the payments were 
genuine, Santander removed the block on them, and I understand that it arranged for the 
payments to be made on 1 January.
Mr N complained to Santander about the blocking of these payments. He suggested that this 
may have been carried out by a member of staff deliberately. He also stated that the blocks 
had denied him access to his account, preventing him paying money that was due and 
resulting in him being charged interest.
Santander responded that the blocking of the payments was not the result of a mistake on its 
part. It explained that it has automated systems in place to prevent fraudulent transactions. 
Santander stated that it was not its intention to cause unnecessary distress to Mr N, but it 
was obliged to ensure his funds are safeguarded. This was why the payments were referred 
for additional checks.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr N brought a complaint to this service. He said that 
there had been no fraudulent transactions on his account, and in his view Santanders 
automated system was at fault in flagging these particular payments as needing further 
checks. Mr N said that Santander had failed to identify why his genuine payments were 
suspicious, and that it was not in his best interests to be denied access to his own money. 
He stated Santanders security team is not available 24 hours of the day, meaning he had 
lost access to his account for over a day, and he had had to ring the bank on multiple 
occasions. Mr N commented that Santanders actions had caused him financial loss, 
together with anxiety.
After referring his complaint to us, on 1 February Mr N contacted to say that his account had 
been blocked by Santander again, and that he had been asked to go to a branch to prove 
transactions had been requested by him. On 2 February Santander texted Mr N to say that 
the requested payment had now been processed, and that there were no blocks on his 
account. Mr N suggested that a rogue employee of Santander might have caused these 
events to happen.
With regard to this more recent incident, Santander responded to say that Mr N had made 
multiple payments on the same day, some of which were high value, and this had resulted in 
it making further checks to ensure these were genuine requests. It stated that these types of 
payment requests can flag on its systems as looking suspicious, and this is designed to 
protect both the bank and customer, rather than to cause inconvenience.
In early March, Mr N told this service that his account had been blocked again.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She appreciated why Mr N was frustrated that 
some genuine transactions had been picked up for further investigation by Santanders fraud 
detection system, but she considered the bank was acting in line with its policies, and 
attempting to protect both itself and Mr N.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators findings. He stated that Santander had not adequately 
explained the reasoning for its fraud detection systems picking up the particular transactions 
that it had. Mr N asked what procedures Santander was using that resulted in these 
transactions being flagged. He commented that he knows all the activity taking place in his 
account is legitimate, and he has been transparent and cooperative with Santander when it 
has asked him questions about the payments so that it can be reassured these are genuine. 
Mr N stated that he had proved there is no reason for Santander to decline any transactions 
he requests.
Mr N suggested that Santanders automated systems can make mistakes, or that human 
error might be incorrectly flagging certain transactions he has requested. He said that the 
investigator had not asked Santander for relevant information to show that its fraud detection 
systems are not faulty.
This complaint was passed to me for review. I asked Santander to clarify the procedures 
which were followed when Mr Ns transactions were blocked. In response it reiterated that 
payment blocks occurred when a large number of high value transactions were requested in 
a short period of time. Santander commented that this type of activity is similar to how a 
fraudster might operate, and so it flags transactions for further checks. By sending a text to 
Mr N to check the transactions were genuine, and with Mr N responding promptly, this 
ensured the block was removed quickly. Santander highlighted that the block on the 
transactions made on 1 January was removed just over half an hour after it had been put in 
place.
Santander stated that when transactions are flagged, its the result of an automated system, 
and is not the result of an employee reviewing the account. By using an automated system 
to monitor transactions, Santander stated its ensuring that its being vigilant, in an effort to 
prevent customers losing money to scams.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that Mr N has suffered frustration as a result of several transactions being blocked 
by Santander over the course of several months. What I need to determine is whether 
Santander has acted within the terms of the bank account when blocking certain payments, 
and also whether I consider the bank has acted fairly.
The account terms state that Santander can refuse a payment instruction if it reasonably 
suspects it relates to fraud. Where transactions are being processed as faster payments, 
which I understand was the case for Mr N, the terms state that (t)here may be a delay in 
processing the payment while fraud prevention checks take place. We may need to contact 
you if we suspect that a payment is fraudulent. It states this may be by phone, and I 
understand in Mr Ns case, he was contacted both by text message and with phone calls.
The account terms also state that Santanders fraud detection systems can highlight unusual 
spending patterns. If this occurs, the bank may call, write to or text the account holder if it believes the account is at risk of a security threat. On balance, my view is that the terms of 
Mr Ns account permit Santander to block payments when it has suspicions that these may 
not be genuine.
Mr N has questioned the reasoning behind Santander blocking certain transactions. 
Santander has responded that on the occasions when the transactions have been blocked, 
this was the result of a number of high value payments being requested on the same day. It 
considers such activity to justify further investigations for security reasons. Mr N does not 
consider that Santander has given sufficient explanation about the reasons for blocking his 
payments. Although I note his comments, my view is that Santander has adequately clarified 
why some of the payments made on these specific dates were blocked.
Mr N has suggested that human intervention and error may have caused his payments to be 
stopped. Santander has stated that the blocks are being flagged by its automated systems, 
rather than by an employee. On the weight of evidence provided, I consider it is the case 
that the blocked payments were the result of the actions of automated systems, rather than 
the result of any human intervention. I am not persuaded that an employee is the cause of 
the stopped payments.
Mr N has stated that the banks security team is not available 24 hours of the day, and that 
this has caused him to lose access to his account for more than a day. But based on the 
submissions provided, it seems to me that once Mr N contacted Santander to confirm that 
each payment was genuine, the bank acted promptly to lift the blocks in place.
Santander has also explained that its actions when stopping the payments are to protect 
both the bank and Mr N. I acknowledge that Mr N has felt inconvenienced when Santander 
has blocked payments, and that this has now happened on several occasions. However, 
overall I consider Santanders actions are permitted by the policy terms, and are a 
reasonable way in which to reduce the risk of Mr N falling victim to fraudulent activity on his 
account. Although I appreciate Mr N will be disappointed with my findings, my conclusions 
are that Santander has acted fairly in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023. 
John Swain
Ombudsman