DRN-3581997
The complaint
Ms G complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) caused her 
unnecessary costs and losses after unfairly declining her claim on her home insurance. 
What happened
Ms G had home insurance that was underwritten by RSA, for a property she owns and rents 
out. 
In 2019 she made a claim following a flood in the cellar of the property. RSA declined the 
claim initially, as it said there wasnt a leak but instead the water in the cellar was due to a 
problem with the damp proof course and this wasnt covered under the policy. 
To rectify the problem Ms G installed a sump pump in the cellar.
Sometime after this the local water company discovered a leak from a supply pipe at a 
neighbouring property and confirmed this had caused the flood in Ms Gs cellar. 
Ms G made a complaint to RSA which she later brought to this service. An ombudsman 
issued a final decision on the matter requiring RSA to consider the claim under the policy. 
Following this decision Ms G made a further complaint to RSA. She said that her tenants 
had moved out due to the number of contractors regularly attending the property. And 
thought RSA should pay loss of rent for the period she didnt have tenants. She also said 
she had installed a sump pump following RSAs experts recommendations, and this had 
turned out to be unnecessary, so she thought RSA should cover the cost. 
RSA upheld the complaint and offered £200 compensation for service failings. However it 
said the policy didnt cover her costs for the sump pump and loss of rent is only provided 
when a property is uninhabitable, which hers had never been. 
Ms G was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She said 
that Ms G had only installed a sump pump off the back of RSAs experts findings which 
were later found to be incorrect. So she thought it fair and reasonable that RSA cover this 
cost. However she didnt think it should pay for loss of rent as the property wasnt 
uninhabitable.
Ms G accepted our investigators outcome, however RSA didnt. It said the policy didnt 
provide cover for the cots of the sump pump and its expert didnt recommend this was 
installed. So it didnt agree it was fair to ask it to cover the cost.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator that RSA should cover the cost of installing the 
sump pump, for the following reasons:
RSA previously declined Ms Gs claim as it said the water in the cellar was standing 
water caused by poor damp proofing. Based on this, Ms G installed a sump pump in 
order to rectify the problem. While RSAs expert report didnt specify the exact action that 
was required, it did recommend taking corrective action to resolve the issue. And RSA 
offered no further assistance.
Ms Gs policy specifies that in order for cover to apply she must take all reasonable 
steps to prevent further damage.
It has since been shown that the conclusions of RSAs experts were incorrect and the 
water was caused by a leak. The local water company who identified the leak confirmed 
that this made the sump pump redundant. 
This service has already determined that RSAs initial conclusions about the cause of the 
leak were incorrect. And I am satisfied that Ms G acted in good faith when installing it, in 
order to meet the conditions of the policy and follow the information provided by RSAs 
experts. And, based on the water companys findings, this wasnt necessary.
Had RSA correctly identified the leak in the first instance, Ms G wouldnt have had to 
cover the cost of the sump pump. So if it hadnt been for its error, she wouldnt have 
incurred the associated costs. 
I therefore think it fair and reasonable that RSA reimburse Ms G the cost of installing the 
sump pump on receipt of the invoice for the amount. As Ms G has been without the 
funds for some time, it should also pay 8% simple interest from the date Ms G paid for it 
until settlement is paid. 
Ive also considered Ms Gs request that RSA cover loss of rent. The policy specifies that 
loss of rent is paid in consequence of the Buildings becoming uninhabitable. As the 
damage from the flood only affected the cellar of the property, I agree that this would not 
meet a reasonable definition of uninhabitable so cover wouldnt apply. 
My final decision
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Ms G the cost of installing the sump pump, on receipt of an invoice for the 
amount. 
Pay 8% simple interest from the date Ms G paid for the sump pump until the date 
settlement is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman