DRN-3182576
The complaint
Mrs Q complains that Swinton Group Ltd didnt make her aware of an increase in the 
compulsory excess that applied to her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Q purchased motor insurance from Swinton. Her policy renewed automatically in 
December 2020. 
A couple of months later, after a minor collision, Mrs Q discovered that shed have to pay an 
excess of £850. This comprised a compulsory excess of £650 as well as her voluntary 
excess of £200. Mrs Q complained to Swinton, saying shed never have agreed to such a 
high excess. But they said theyd made this clear in the renewal documentation theyd sent 
her.
Our investigator didnt think Swinton had done anything substantially wrong. She said that, 
although the brokers role is to search for policies that meet customers needs, the onus lies 
on Mrs Q to ensure the product was right for her. And that this was made clear on the first 
page of the renewal document. 
The investigator said it wasnt within her remit to challenge where information was placed 
within the renewal document. She noted that Swinton had sent the information a month 
before the renewal date, giving Mrs Q enough time to read it. And that theyd offered a 
further 14-day cooling off period after the policy renewed, in which Mrs Q could cancel if she 
wasnt happy with the cover. 
Mrs Q disagreed. She said Swinton should have brought such a material change to her 
attention, rather than it being lost in the many pages of the renewal document. She felt the 
documentation wasnt clear, because the compulsory excess wasnt shown in the same 
place as the voluntary excess that applied. She asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets principles that businesses such as Swinton must 
follow. These can be found in the FCA handbook, which is available on their website. 
Swinton are expected to provide information their customers need in a way thats clear, fair, 
and not misleading. Ive considered Mrs Qs complaint with this in mind.
Swinton have provided a copy of their renewal invitation, notifying Mrs Q that her existing 
insurance policy expired on 4 December 2020. The renewal invitation is dated 9 November 
2020. The front page includes a renewal summary box. It gives brief details of the proposed 
policy, including the vehicle and drivers insured, type of cover and the insurers details.  It 
also shows the amount of no claims bonus and voluntary excess that apply. 
I appreciate that Mrs Q feels the renewal documents were quite lengthy  and that she 
would have been more likely to notice the change to the compulsory excess if it had been 
included in the summary box on the front page. Ive given careful thought to the point shes 
made.
Its not my role to tell Swinton how to set out their renewal invitation  thats a business 
decision theyre entitled to make. When considering whether the information Swinton 
provided was clear and not misleading, I have to bear in mind the practical difficulty of 
summarising the large amount of information Mrs Q needed in order to make an informed 
decision as to whether this insurance product was right for her.  
Information about compulsory excesses is set out in the policy schedule that was enclosed 
with the renewal invitation. Ive seen that the compulsory excess of £650 doesnt apply to all 
claims. Different excesses apply, according to the type of claim made. For example, if the 
car was stolen the compulsory excess would be £100. I find this to be clearly explained. 
Im satisfied that the front page of Swintons renewal document included a prominent 
warning. This specifically drew Mrs Qs attention to the importance of checking the enclosed 
documents to ensure she was happy with any excesses or endorsements that may have 
changed  and that the policy still met her needs. I find that warning to clearly highlight the 
importance of checking that she was happy with the excesses that applied.
I note that Swinton sent the renewal information the month before Mrs Qs previous policy 
expired. Im satisfied that this gave her sufficient time to read through Swintons proposal 
and, if necessary, find alternative cover that better suited her needs. So, Im unable to say 
Swinton did anything wrong here. 
I can appreciate Mrs Qs disappointment when she discovered her compulsory excess had 
increased. But I dont consider the renewal invitation she received to have been unclear or 
misleading. So, I wont be directing Swinton to cover the cost of any administration fee Mrs 
Q may have had to pay in order to switch to a different policy mid-year. 
My final decision
Although I realise that Mrs Q will be disappointed with this decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022. 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman