DRN-2979854
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim under his 
buildings insurance policy.   
What happened
On 24 February 2020, the retaining wall at the rear of Mr Ss property suffered damage. He 
said that part of his rear neighbours wall collapsed after two big storms had recently 
saturated the ground. This collapse in turn caused his next-door neighbours retaining wall to 
collapse. And this caused part of his own adjoining retaining wall to collapse. He reported 
this incident to RSA as a claim on his policy the same day.
Mr S said he asked RSA to investigate the claim under both storm damage and accidental 
damage. RSA sent a surveyor to assess the damage.
The surveyor reported that the wall had collapsed as it no longer had the ability to withstand 
the horizontal forces exerted upon it. But also noted that Mr S had regularly maintained his 
wall.  And that: modifications carried out to the garden at the top end of the wall will have 
had a significant impact leading to an increase in horizontal loads acting on the wall by up to 
30%. Recent weather conditions will also have resulted in causing saturation of the fill and 
additional loads being applied to the wall due to high winds. The report also noted that there 
was no storm at the time of the collapse. 
RSA declined the claim. They said the wall didnt collapse due to storm conditions. They 
noted that Mr S had reported a claim for damage to the wall in 2013. But that this had been 
declined due to wear and tear. So they felt this showed the wall had pre-existing issues. 
They also noted there was pre-existing damage to Mr Ss adjacent neighbours wall. 
Mr S said that the repairs hed had carried out in 2013 showed that the wear and tear had 
been corrected. He noted that although the retaining wall runs the length of the street, no 
other section had suffered damage apart from the part that was underneath the wall that 
initially collapsed. 
Mr S said he was initially told that RSA might consider his claim under the accidental 
damage section of his policy. But he didnt think theyd investigated this. 
Mr S complained to RSA. RSA maintained that it was correct to turn down the claim. They 
said there was evidence of pre-existing damage to the retaining wall at the neighbouring 
property. And that there was no evidence of any insured peril on 24 February 2020. So, Mr S 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He felt that the main cause of the damage to the wall 
was the storm conditions at the time proceeding its collapse. And that RSA should settle the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
RSA didnt agree. They said that although they didnt feel the wall wasnt affected by the 
recent heavy rainfall and build-up of water, it was the straw which broke the camels back. 
They said there was pre-existing damage to the wall. And that they would expect a wall of 
this construction to cope with heavy rainfall. So the complaint has been referred to me for 
review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 10 August 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. However, my reasons for upholding it are a little 
different from that of our investigator. I dont consider the storm conditions that were present 
before the collapse to be the main cause of the damage, although I do agree that they were 
a contributory factor. Instead, I consider that RSA should cover this claim under accidental 
damage. Ill explain my findings.
If I was satisfied that the wall had been failing due to poor maintenance or gradual wear and 
tear then I would agree with RSA and not uphold Mr Ss complaint. But the only relevant 
evidence which Ive seen for this argument is a reference to Mr Ss reported claim from 
2013. And hes provided evidence showing that the wall was repaired appropriately at the 
time. RSA have also noted that Mr Ss neighbours wall was poorly maintained. But it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold Mr S responsible for that. 
RSA have referred back to a report of damage to Mr Ss wall in 2013 to evidence that it was 
damaged at that time and so it wasnt something caused by storm conditions in 2020. They 
said they have evidence this wall was leaning seven years ago. But Im more persuaded by 
Mr Ss evidence that he had the wall repaired at that time. And the surveyors report stated: 
It is the case that Mr S undertook regular maintenance works to his wall in the form of 
pointing and ensuring that the weep holes remained free draining thus avoiding build-up of 
hydrostatic pressures upon the wall.  Therefore I agree with him that the issues had been 
addressed appropriately.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Mr Ss wall was well-maintained before its partial collapse 
in early 2020. So I need to decide, based on the expert reports and other evidence, the most 
likely cause of the damage. 
The surveyors report suggested the cause of damage to be overturning failure. It stated 
that this occurs when the wall no longer has the ability to withstand the horizontal forces 
exerted upon it.
The report also stated: What cannot be overlooked is the effect of recent weather conditions 
and their potential impact upon the wall. The effect of significant rainfall results in saturation 
of the fill behind the wall which causes an increase in horizontal pressures on the wall.
The effects of high wind would result in additional loads being applied to the wall due to the 
presence of the fencing along the wall top. Whilst weather records indicate there to have 
been no particular storm conditions on the day of the collapse, weather conditions prior to 
the collapse were generally wet with higher than average winds.
The report also noted that Mr Ss rear neighbours had increased the original height of 
retained earth by approximately 0.3 metres. Alongside other amendments, the surveyor 
noted that: this will have increased the horizontal loads acting on the walls by as much as 
30% and will have increased the moment at the base of the wall by up to 70%. These 
actions will have placed the wall under more severe stress. 
And it noted that Mr Ss next-door neighbours wall: had undergone slight tilt. This was evidenced by the formation of a lip at high level between his and his neighbours wall. We are 
also aware that the neighbour appears to have undertaken some temporary propping works 
in the form of installing scaffold tubing which has been inserted between the lean to building 
adjacent the wall with the front of the main house.
Mr S said he witnessed the collapse. He said: The wall collapsed on 24th February this year 
after 2 named storms had saturated the ground and put stress on our neighbours wall above 
the retaining wall in our garden. Their wall fell down onto our retaining wall below and 
caused our neighbours wall at the right of our property to breech which took our wall with it in 
a domino style. Mr Ss neighbour confirmed his version of events. 
RSA said theyd expect a wall of this construction to cope with heavy rainfall. So would I. Mr 
S said that no other section of the street-long retaining wall had suffered damage apart from 
the part that was underneath the wall that initially collapsed. So its apparent that the wall 
was generally fit for purpose. So Im persuaded that the heavy rainfall didnt directly cause 
Mr Ss wall to collapse. But that the amendments to the original rear neighbours wall, 
coupled with the pre-existing damage to the adjacent neighbours wall, acted together with 
the weather conditions to cause the collapse of Mr Ss wall.
Mr Ss policy defines accidental damage as:
Visible damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside force, which has not been 
caused deliberately.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that the chain of events leading to the damage 
to Mr Ss property meets this definition. The damage was clearly visible. It was clearly not 
caused deliberately. It was caused suddenly by an outside force  no one at Mr Ss property 
did anything to damage the wall. And from what Ive seen, Mr S couldnt have expected the 
damage, as he properly maintained his part of the retaining wall. 
So I intend to require RSA to pay the claim under the accidental damage section of the 
policy.
Distress and Inconvenience caused by the complaint 
After the damage was surveyed, RSA took several weeks to reach a decision on the claim. 
They said they needed to allow the other insurers involved the time to inspect and report on 
the damage. They said this was because they couldve discovered a reason as to why the 
section of wall had collapsed which wouldve influenced their decision. 
From what Ive seen, RSA didnt investigate Mr Ss claim under the accidental damage 
section of the policy, although Mr S did ask them to. I consider that if they had, they wouldve 
resolved the claim more quickly. 
Since the damage occurred, Mr S said hed had issues with access to his washing and 
drying facilities, which were vital to him for his work. He said he and his family had no access 
to their rear garden during the pandemic due to the damage. Hed also incurred additional 
costs due to not having access to other possessions he kept outside. Mr S said that this 
claim had caused him severe stress and inconvenience.
Based on what Ive seen, I consider that RSA couldve done more to help Mr S under the 
circumstances. I can see why the claim wouldve been stressful and inconvenient. So I 
intend to require RSA to pay Mr S £500 for the trouble and upset theyve caused him.
Responses to my provisional decisionRSA confirmed their agreement to settle the claim in line with my provisional decision. They 
said theyd contact Mr S about his claim and the £500 compensation award in due course.
Mr S asked me to confirm that my provisional decision related to the entire cost of repair to 
the wall, outbuilding and garden. He said that RSA had originally said theyd consider the 
damage to the garden and outbuilding under accidental damage. But that they wanted to 
resolve the reason for the wall collapse. He felt this made his claim sound like two claims, 
which it wasnt. So he wanted clarification on this point.
Mr S also asked this service to request a rapid response to repairing the damage. He said 
that hes concerned about the approaching winter and the potential for further storms.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has asked me to confirm that my decision relates to the whole claim. That is both the 
repairs to the garden and outbuilding that RSA had already accepted under accidental 
damage AND the wall collapse. I confirm that my decision does relate to all parts of the 
claim. I consider the damage to have been caused by the single sudden and unexpected 
event of the wall collapse so expect it to be dealt with as one claim.
Regarding Mr Ss request for a rapid response from RSA, I would expect RSA to comply with 
my decision within 28 days of the final decision being accepted. 
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to: 
Pay the whole claim (outbuilding, garden and retaining wall) under the accidental 
damage section of the policy, less any excess. 
Pay Mr S £500 compensation for trouble and upset.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to take the actions detailed in the Putting 
things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman