DRN-4184984
The complaint
Mr E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed his current account and withheld 
his funds for longer than necessary. As a result, he was unable to pay his credit card bill and 
incurred additional charges. 
What happened
Mr E had both a current account and a credit card with NatWest. In July 2020 the bank gave 
him notice that it was closing his current account and that it would be suspended with 
immediate effect. The bank asked Mr E to indicate where he would like funds on the account 
transferred. The balance on the current account at that point was a little under £6,000. At the 
end of July 2020 the balance on the credit card account was just under £900. 
Mr E completed the necessary forms to arrange for the release of his funds on or about 22 
September 2020, and funds were released on or about 20 November 2020.
Mr E said that he had no other accounts and was therefore unable to make any payments to 
his credit card account while his current account was suspended. He said this had caused 
the account balance to increase significantly, by the addition of interest and charges. 
NatWest did not believe that it had done anything wrong in closing the current account. It 
acknowledged however that Mr E had been (incorrectly) told that he would receive a 
telephone call about the credit card account. It paid £50 to Mr Es credit card account in 
recognition of its error. 
Mr E referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators sent a provisional 
assessment of the complaint. Whilst he was broadly in agreement with the banks position, 
he thought that it should have released the funds on the current account earlier than it had 
done. He recommended that NatWest pay interest on the current account balance at 8% a 
year simple for 60 days. The bank accepted the investigators assessment, but Mr E asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I believe that NatWest was within its rights to close Mr Es current account and to suspend it 
 in line with its legal and regulatory obligations  while it waited for Mr E to provide details of 
an alternative account to receive the funds. 
One consequence of that was however that Mr E was unable to make payments to his credit 
card account. The balance on that account increased to around £980, but only a small part 
of the increase was due to interest and charges. NatWest suspended interest and charges 
from around December 2020. 
That is of course unfortunate for Mr E. However, since I do not believe that the bank acted 
incorrectly in suspending his current account, I cannot properly require it to compensate Mr 
E for the consequences. He remained liable to pay the credit card bill in line with the credit 
card account terms. I do of course acknowledge that, without a bank account, that may have 
been difficult for him. 
Mr E has suggested that the bank should allow him to pay the balance on his credit card 
account by instalments. If he is having difficulty making payments  having in mind that the 
account has been defaulted  I would of course expect him and the bank to try to reach a 
satisfactory arrangement. I am not however in a position to impose any such arrangement 
on them.   
As I have said, the investigator thought the bank should pay interest to recognise the delay 
in releasing funds after Mr E had provided it with his new account details. NatWest agreed to 
do that, but I will make an award in those terms in any event. I calculate that the payment 
should be in the region of £80.      
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Es complaint in full, National Westminster Bank Plc 
should pay Mr E interest at 8% a year simple on the balance of his current account at 
closure for 60 days. Payment is to be made within 30 days of Mr Es acceptance.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman