DRN-3650557
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked its account, and this led to 
financial loss.
What happened
R received a payment for £4,800 to its account on 31 May 2021. On 14 June 2021 its 
account was blocked based on information HSBC had received about this payment. On 5 
July 2021 R provided an invoice and details of the services the payment related to. It 
contacted HSBC several times about its account. On 11 August 2021 the block on the 
account was removed. R says that as a result it lost business and had to borrow money and 
wants to be compensated.
HSBC said it hadnt made any mistake. At the time it issued a final response letter the block 
was still in place and it said that the information provided by R was under review. It had 
acted in line with its terms and conditions.
Our investigator recommended that R be paid £300 for inconvenience. She had asked it to 
show any financial loss, but it hadnt done so. The director had provided information in the 
form of his bank statements and credit card borrowing. There had been transfers from R in 
the past to what seemed to be a savings account. And she thought it had access to these 
funds and HSBC wasnt responsible if it had decided to take out borrowing. She noted the 
delay in this being investigated and the number of calls the director had made about this. 
The block had been in place for nearly two months and clearly caused inconvenience. 
Although it wasnt unfair for HSBC to place the inhibit on the account the length of time 
involved did seem long even taking into account the potential impact of the pandemic.
HSBC said it agreed to pay the compensation.
R didnt agree and provided complete copies of bank statements. It said that money 
transferred from R in the past had been invested. The director had marked the borrowing 
from friends and family. He said that this amounted to £20,620 and then there was a further 
£10,850 on credit card.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 4 July 2022. I set out below what I said.
I wanted to explain how I had assessed the evidence that R has provided and my thoughts 
about compensation. And to allow any comments about that.
HSBC needed to take any concerns about a payment seriously and investigate these. A 
typical and proportionate response would be to inhibit Rs account. And in doing so I didnt 
think it acted outside its terms and conditions. However, inhibiting the account was a serious 
step and I wouldnt expect that to continue for any more than necessary to address potential 
risks. It received from R what seems to be cogent and accepted evidence of the legitimacy 
of the payment. And it didnt identify any other concerns that this service has been made 
aware of.
The account of R was inhibited from 14 June to 11 August 2021. HSBC didnt ask R for 
information until 5 July 2021 and R provided it straightaway. Id seen HSBCs file note about 
this dated that day. I was unclear what further checks it needed to make. And it hasnt 
provided any documentary evidence of those. R had called about the account on a number 
of occasions and didnt seem to be asked for any more information. I inferred that the delay 
here was largely down to HSBCs processing times. When it did look at things after a call 
from the director on 9 August 2021 the matter was then quickly resolved.
Assessing compensation
Its up to R to substantiate and explain its claim for financial loss. Id looked at the bank 
statements provided by R. These relate to current and savings accounts at a different 
financial business in the name of the director of R. I immediately needed to highlight that for 
the purpose of this complaint the complainant is R, a separate legal entity, and it and the 
director arent interchangeable. And just because he may have borrowed money doesnt 
automatically mean that this arose from any loss at R.
There were a significant number of transfers to and from his accounts and that of R at HSBC 
in the past. I understood from the information provided that some of this money was used to 
deal in investments for R.
In order to assess whether there was a financial loss that HSBC can reasonably be 
responsible for I needed to consider things in stages.
R would need to show that as a result it had to turn clients and business away and so lost 
income and that this couldnt be mitigated. Id not seen any evidence of that. I also noted that 
when it applied for a recovery loan from HSBC on 5 August 2021 it stated that We have had 
less business than usual and loads of refunds because people from the [anonymised type of 
company] have not been working so we couldnt get results!
Id also noted above that funds for investment seemed to go through the directors accounts. 
Hes highlighted on his statements what he says were loans. Id need to be clear that these 
were taken for R and what these related to. If for example hed used this for investments 
then I didnt see any loss. But if there were running costs for R Id expect R to repay them. I 
was unclear what relevance his personal credit card borrowing had and again why this is a 
loss for R. Either R would be required to repay that, or it wouldnt. And Id need to be thinking 
about any loss for R as I said and not borrowing for him personally.
The point here is that Id not been shown that any expenses were on Rs behalf during the 
period and also that it wouldnt have incurred these anyway. 
Id already said that HSBC was entitled to take the action it did. So, I wouldnt reasonably be 
able to consider any loss over the whole period the account was inhibited. Here I might have 
taken the view that this ought reasonably to have been resolved in a month or less. But in 
any case I didnt consider that there were financial losses.
I still needed to think about inconvenience to R. I took the view that R was caused 
unnecessary inconvenience by HSBCs actions. In the calls Id listened to between R and 
HSBC there didnt seem to be any sense of pace in addressing this. And as I said based on 
what Id seen the length of time involved wasnt reasonable for R. Id looked at our published 
guidelines about compensation and applied my own judgement. I considered that the appropriate amount to reflect this inconvenience for R here is £500. I appreciated that the 
director would remain disappointed by my conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it accepted my decision. R did not provide any further comments.
That being the case I see no reason to depart from the conclusions of my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay R 
£500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman