DRN-3289042
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way American International Group UK Limited trading as 
AIG (AIG) handled his mobile phone insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr C has mobile phone insurance cover provided as part of a package of benefits with his 
bank account.
On 26 July 2021 Mr C made a claim as he said his phone was faulty. On the same day, AIG 
arranged for him to be sent a replacement refurbished phone. They also said theyd give him 
£20 so he could purchase a new phone charger. 
Once Mr C received the replacement phone, he complained that it was faulty as it wouldnt 
stay charged. AIG initially gave Mr C some advice on how to improve the phones battery 
life. However, as he said this didnt resolve the problem, a few days later they agreed to 
provide a replacement. Mr C then complained again as he said the second replacement 
phone was also faulty. He also said he was unhappy with AIGs customer service and 
highlighted a delay in receiving the £20 Ive mentioned above.
To resolve the matter, Mr C said he wanted AIG to cancel the claim and refund the £100 
policy excess. He also said they should agree to send him a brand new replacement phone, 
so he could be certain it would work correctly. 
In response to the complaint, AIG agreed there were some occasions where they could have 
progressed the claim faster. They also acknowledged the delay in providing Mr C with the 
agreed £20. To reflect these issues, they offered to pay him £55 compensation. They 
werent prepared to refund the excess or provide a new replacement phone. However, they 
did say they'd exchange his current device for an upgraded refurbished model. Mr C didnt 
think this was fair, so he kept his existing phone. 
Our investigator then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She felt AIG had already 
provided Mr C with a reasonable resolution to his complaint. So, she didnt think they needed 
to do anything more. 
AIG accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr C didnt. He said the outcome isnt fair as 
hes been left with a phone, that needs to be charged twice a day. He acknowledged receipt 
of the £55 compensation, but said AIG initially sent him the wrong amount. So, this was 
another customer service failing on top of everything else.
Ive therefore considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators opinion for the following reasons: 
As Mr C is aware, after he returned the first replacement phone, AIG ran diagnostics 
to see if it fell below their usual quality standards. The result of this diagnostic was 
that the phones battery was operating at 99% and no problems were identified with 
the way the phone was working. So, while I appreciate Mr C has said he experienced 
difficulties with this phone, the available technical evidence doesnt suggest it was 
faulty. 
Mr C hasnt returned the second replacement phone. So, AIG havent been able to 
complete any diagnostic tests to check its battery life. Mr C also hasnt provided any 
supporting technical evidence such as an independent report. So, there isnt any 
documentary evidence which indicates the second phone was faulty. In any event, 
AIG have already offered to exchange the phone. So, Im satisfied theyve responded 
to this issue in a fair and reasonable way.
I appreciate Mr C feels AIG should provide him with a brand new phone. However,  
the policy terms say they will settle mobile phone claims by providing a repair or a 
refurbished replacement. So, I dont think directing AIG to comply with Mr Cs request 
would be fair. I also think AIGs offer to provide an upgraded phone was a reasonable 
gesture to reflect the trouble Mr C has gone through. As phone upgrades arent 
included under the terms of the policy.
I was sorry to hear that Mr C currently needs to charge his phone twice a day. This 
must be inconvenient and frustrating. I also appreciate that being sent three phones 
in connection with one claim is far from ideal. However, as AIG offered to replace   
Mr Cs current phone in August 2021, Im satisfied hes already been offered a 
reasonable solution to the reported battery problem. It also wouldnt be fair to hold 
AIG responsible for Mr Cs decision to keep his current phone, as he could 
reasonably have exchanged it several months ago.
I appreciate Mr Cs comments that he was initially provided with £45 compensation 
instead of the promised £55. However, having carefully considered all the 
circumstances, the timescales involved and the overall impact of AIGs actions, I 
dont think the compensation should reasonably be increased.
Im also satisfied there arent reasonable grounds for directing AIG to refund the 
policy excess, as Mr C has made a successful claim under the policy. I know he 
disputes the quality of the current device, but I think AIGs offer to exchange it for an 
upgraded refurbished phone is fair and reasonable. So, I dont require them to do 
anything more. If Mr C would now like to exchange his phone, he should contact AIG 
directly to arrange this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied American International Group UK Limited have 
already offered Mr C a reasonable resolution to his complaint. Theyve paid him £55 
compensation and offered a further phone exchange. So, I dont direct them to do anything 
more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman