DRN-3267657
The complaint
Mr M complains that esure Insurance Limited avoided his motor insurance policy and 
refused to pay his claim.
Reference to esure includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with esure over the telephone. When he was 
involved in a road traffic accident, he made a claim to esure for the damage caused.
esure said Mr had answered the question it asked him about the registered keeper of the car 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to 
avoid his policy and not deal with his claim.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and recommended it be upheld. He 
thought Mr M had answered the question incorrectly, but that he hadnt failed to take 
reasonable care to do so. Our investigator thought esure was acting unfairly by avoiding Mr 
Ms policy. He thought esure should reinstate the policy and assess Mr Ms claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions.
esure didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It thinks Mr M did fail to take 
reasonable care, so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
esure thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said that he was the registered keeper of the car. It said had it known he wasnt the 
registered keeper of the car, it wouldnt have insured him.
Factually, Mr M made a misrepresentation here. When asked whether he was the registered 
keeper of the car, he told esure that he was. He wasnt.
But CIDRA says an insurer can only take action if the misrepresentation is a qualifying one. 
To be a qualifying misrepresentation, a misrepresentation needs to have made a difference 
to the insurer, and the consumer needs to have failed to take reasonable care when giving 
the answer they gave.
Here, the information Mr M gave was incorrect, and had it not been, esure has evidenced 
that it wouldnt have insured him. That part needs no further consideration.
What I need to consider is whether Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he gave the answer he did. CIDRA doesnt require the consumer 
(Mr M) to answer every question with 100% accuracy. It requires him to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. And the level of care required is that of a reasonable 
consumer.
So, what I need to consider is why Mr M gave the answer he did, and crucially, decide 
whether or not a reasonable consumer would have answered the same way in the exact 
same circumstances.
In this case, Mr M took out the policy with esure over the telephone. During that call he 
makes it clear the car is financed by a lease agreement. Its also made clear this is a lease 
taken out by his employer. In the call Mr M is asked who the owner of the vehicle is. He lets 
esure know that the owner is the finance company  which was correct. Hes then asked 
who the registered keeper is. He tells esure that he is the register keeper  which as 
explained, was incorrect.
As set out above, Mr M isnt the registered keeper of the car. But hes advised us he thought 
he was. Hes explained the car is leased by his employer. Hes said the car was taken out for 
his sole purpose, for his sole benefit and he was tasked with insuring it himself. Hes said the 
car is kept at his address not his works.
esure thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care because Mr M isnt listed on the V5C 
(registration) document and thinks this clearly indicates he is not the registered keeper. But 
Mr M says he was never given this by his work, and thought nothing of it, because the car 
was taken out by his work, for him. And I think thats reasonable. In his eyes, he was the 
keeper of the car.
Im aware that you need to be registered on the V5C to be deemed the registered keeper, 
and its clear esure know this too. I understand esures position and dont find it at all 
illogical. But I dont find it fair. Im not persuaded that a reasonable consumer has the same 
level of knowledge. Especially given the context of how Mr M was asked here. He was asked 
over the telephone whether he was the register keeper. There was no explanation of what 
this meant, which there often is when taking a policy online. In the documentation sent to Mr 
M regarding this policy, hes clearly listed as being the registered keeper. But again, theres 
no explanation of what this means or what this requires. So checking this wouldnt have 
achieved anything  because Mr M thought he was the registered keeper.
esures question is clear, but it does, in my opinion, require a certain level of knowledge to 
answer that a reasonable consumer may not have. So, given Mr Ms situation, I think a 
reasonable consumer may well have answered the same way as Mr M did. Therefore, I dont 
think Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. So, even though 
the answer he gave is factually wrong, I find that Mr Ms misrepresentation wasnt a 
qualifying one under CIDRA.Putting things right
As Mr Ms misrepresentation wasnt a qualifying one under CIDRA -because I dont find that 
he failed to take reasonable care - esure shouldnt avoid this policy and should deal with Mr 
Ms claim. Therefore, to put things right esure should reinstate Mr Ms policy and assess his 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of that policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. To put things right I require esure 
Insurance Limited to:
Reinstate Mr Ms policy and assess his claim in line with the remaining terms and 
condition of it, settling the claim in full if those conditions so require. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman