DRN-2963429
The complaint
Miss L complains that Equifax Limited recorded information about her sibling on her credit 
report.  Miss L says this impacted her credit score and led to her being declined finance.
Miss L wants Equifax to pay more compensation than its offered so far.
What happened
In 2016, Miss L discovered that her credit report contained information about her twin sibling. 
In 2019, Miss L disputed the entry again and Equifax confirmed it would be removed. 
In 2020, Miss L discovered that the entry still appeared on her credit file. She complained 
and Equifax apologised. It explained that a mistake had been made by its data matching 
system because of the similarities between some of Miss L and her siblings data. 
Equifax said it shouldve loaded a Notice of Disassociation (NOD) to prevent the information 
about Miss Ls sibling reappearing on her credit file.  It apologised and offered Miss L £250 
compensation.
Miss L wasnt happy with Equifaxs offer, so she brought her complaint to this service. The 
investigator recommended that Equifax increase its offer of compensation to a total of £450 
which it agreed to do. 
Miss L doesnt consider £450 adequately reflects the impact this had had on her over an 
extended period. Miss L says that her siblings data has affected her ability to get credit for 
everyday items. It has affected her ability to work, get a mortgage and has caused family 
tensions. Miss L thinks that a figure in the region of £50,000 is fairer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say that I can appreciate the upset and stress that Miss L has felt as a result of 
her siblings negative information appearing on her credit file. Miss L raised her concerns 
with Equifax on more than one occasion. And she was aware of the problem over an 
extended period.
There isnt any dispute that Equifax made a mistake as part of its data matching process. 
This happened because Miss L and her sibling have the same surname, date of birth and 
very similarly spelt Christian names. 
I understand that Equifax has added a NOD which separates Miss Ls details from her 
sibling. This should stop the problem reoccurring. My decision will focus on whether Miss L 
should receive more compensation than Equifax has agreed.
First, I need to consider whether Equifaxs mistake caused Miss L any substantial financial 
losses  such as getting turned down for credit. But to do this, I would need to be persuaded 
that the appearance of Miss Ls siblings data was the only or at least the primary reason 
why lenders rejected any credit applications.
Miss L says that she had credit applications declined as a result of her siblings information 
appearing on her credit report. But lenders take account of several factors when deciding 
whether to lend.
I accept that as her siblings data included a defaulted account, its likely this wouldve 
impacted Miss Ls ability to obtain credit. But despite the investigator asking for it, Ive not 
seen a copy of Miss Ls credit file. So, I cant say whether there was any other data 
belonging to Miss L that mightve led to lenders deciding to reject her credit applications.
Miss L has given this service evidence of one rejected finance application in November 
2018. Ive considered the email she gave to us. It says the lender consulted a different credit 
reference agency to Equifax. This means I cant find that Equifaxs data matching mistake 
was the reason why Miss Ls finance application was rejected. 
Miss L suggested that Equifax might be able to give us details of all her rejected credit 
applications since 2016. This isnt exactly how things work with credit reports. They dont 
contain details of rejected credit applications. Instead, a credit report will contain hard and 
soft search footprints. A hard search is left when a business searches someones credit 
report when they are applying for credit. A soft search is left where a consumer, for example, 
shops around for deals. So, if you apply for credit several times over a short period, lenders 
may be concerned that youre trying to take out too much credit.
Seeing evidence of hard searches on Miss Ls credit file wouldnt prove that the applications 
were rejected due to her siblings data. And not all lenders wouldve used data provided by 
Equifax to reach a lending decision. Without evidence of the direct impact of Equifaxs 
mistake on Miss Ls ability to obtain credit, it wouldnt change the outcome of her complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I cant find that Equifax should compensate Miss L for the 
financial impact its mistake has had on her. This leaves me to consider whether £450 is an 
adequate reflection of the stress and upset Miss L has been caused by the error.
Miss L says that she has felt a great deal of stress and anxiety as a result of the incorrect 
information appearing on her credit file. Some of the upset that Miss L described relates to 
the impact felt by a family member. For the purpose of this complaint, I can only consider the 
upset felt by Miss L herself. 
Although I understand the problem had dragged on since 2016, there was gap of around 
three years between Miss L first contacting Equifax in mid-2016 and when she disputed the 
default again in 2019. It then took a year to properly remove the data from Miss Ls credit 
file. I appreciate Miss L wants Equifax to pay substantially more compensation, but I agree 
with the investigator that £450 fairly compensates her for the time shes invested in trying to 
resolve the problem and the emotional impact the mistake has had on her. Im sorry that this 
is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss L.
Putting things right
To put things right, Equifax Limited must pay Miss L £450. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Equifax 
Limited to pay Miss L £450.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman