DRN-1462836
The complaint
Mrs W says The Carphone Warehouse Ltd mis-sold her insurance to cover devices she 
bought from it in 2011 and 2013.
What happened
In June 2011 Mrs W bought insurance from Carphone Warehouse to cover a device she 
bought at the same time. Mrs W called to cancel the policy the following year but decided to 
retain it based on what she was told at the time. In May 2013 Mrs W cancelled her existing 
policy and took out a policy for a new phone she'd bought. 
In November 2019 Mrs W complained the policies had been mis-sold 
to her. Carphone Warehouse upheld her complaint and said it would refund the premiums 
she'd paid plus interest. 
Our investigator thought that was fair but Mrs W didn't agree. She said she was pressured 
into taking out policies she didn't need and was having financial difficulties at the time. She 
said she couldn't afford the policies and didn't think refunding the premiums she'd paid did 
enough to put things right. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Carphone Warehouse has already upheld Mrs W's complaint and so accepted these policies 
were mis-sold to her. And it's offer to refund premiums (plus interest) is in line with our 
normal approach. So I've gone on to consider whether there's anything about this case 
which means something different should be done to put things right. 
I don't think there is. Mrs W has talked about having financial problems when she took out 
these policies. But she hasn't referenced any specific difficulties she was caused because 
she was having to make payments towards them. I think refunding the amounts she paid for 
them puts her back in the position she would have been if she hadn't taken them out in the 
first place. And paying simple interest at 8% on those payments recognises the fact that she 
lost out on the use of this money. I don't think Carphone Warehouse needs to anything 
more. 
My final decision
I've decided not to uphold this complaint because I think the offer The Carphone Warehouse 
Ltd has already made (and which I understand it's already paid) does enough to put things 
right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
James ParkOmbudsman