DRN-3200748
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the difficulties they encountered with ReAssure Limited when 
cancelling their whole of life policy.
Mt T has raised additional concerns about ReAssures processes, but Ive focussed here on 
the crux of his complaint about the cancellation of the policy, as that is within our remit to 
address. 
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties and arent in dispute. Accordingly Ill focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs T wanted to cancel their policy on 20 November 2020 but 
had difficulties in getting through to ReAssure. Mr T sent an email on 4 December 
2020 asking for the policy to be cancelled but because it was a joint policy ReAssure 
needed Mrs Ts consent and instructions on how the surrender value should be paid. 
I find that was reasonable of ReAssure and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Although the policy couldnt be cancelled by telephone Im satisfied that had Mr T 
been able to get through to ReAssure on 20 November, or received a call back, 
forms would have been sent out sooner than they were. According to ReAssures 
turnaround times forms would have been sent out by 4 December at the latest. But 
because of the trouble Mr T experienced in getting through to ReAssure forms 
werent sent until 18 December.
ReAssure queries why Mr T didnt email sooner. Im satisfied he felt that by speaking 
to someone directly would be more expedient than sending an email which he felt 
was likely to result in weeks of delay. Eventually he cancelled the direct debit and 
confirmed this by email. I understand why he was hopeful that he would be able to 
speak to someone and am persuaded that the cancellation email was sent only when 
he had tried several times to contact ReAssure by phone.
Im satisfied that had the forms been sent earlier by ReAssure the policy would have 
been surrendered earlier. Mortality and other policy charges were applied on 10 
December. I cant say for sure that they policy would have been surrendered before 
this date but I think it would have been surrendered before 10 January 2021 when 
charges were applied again. Accordingly I find it is fair for ReAssure to refund any 
charges deducted from the cash value in January 2021.
ReAssure has recognised that the customer service Mr T experienced fell short on 
this occasion and has offered compensation of £100. Like our investigator Im 
satisfied that an award of £150 is merited because of the frustration Mr T 
experienced. He wasnt sent the data he had requested for some months and his 
concerns werent fully addressed. Likewise I note that ReAssure says it wrongly 
deducted administrative charges. These should be refunded with interest from the 
date charged until payment is made.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint. 
I require ReAssure Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs T an additional £50 in compensation, making £150 in total.
Refund any charges incurred in January 2021 and deducted from the cash value with 
simple interest at 8% per annum from the date the charges were deducted until 
settlement.
Refund the administrative charges deducted in error with simple interest at 8% per 
annum from the date of deduction until settlement, if it hasnt been refunded already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman