DRN-3868587
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has refused to refund him the amount he lost 
as the result of a scam.
Mr W is being represented by a third party but to keep things simple I will refer to Mr W 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr W was looking to invest in Bitcoin and having carried out an internet search 
found a business called Bitcoin APP (BA). BA put Mr W in touch with a business called 
Financial Resident (FR).
Mr W was told to download the screen sharing application (Any desk), which he did and was 
shown how to make deposits into investments with FR via several cryptocurrency 
exchanges.
When Mr W attempted to withdraw profits from the investment, he was advised further funds 
would be required from him which he also paid.
Mr W made the following payments via his Lloyds Visa debit card in relation to the 
investment with FR:
1. 25 February 2021 - £181.02
2. 26 February 2021 - £2,000.00
3. 5 May 2021 - £1,600.00
4. 7 May 2021 - £600.00
5. 5 August 2021 - £1,000.00
6. 5 August 2021 - £7,000.00
It appears Mr W has fallen victim to a scam. The funds Mr W requested from FR were never 
sent to him and he was unable to recover any of the money he paid to FR.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt think Lloyds was responsible for his 
loss. So, he didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. Mr W disagreed so this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr W and Lloyds set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Lloyds should 
refund any of the money Mr W has lost because of this scam.
Lloyds was unable to request a chargeback for the payments Mr W made on his debit card.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr W was dealing with BA and FR, which were the businesses that instigated the scam. But 
Mr W didnt make the debit card payments to them directly, he paid separate cryptocurrency 
exchanges (Cryptonet exchange, Coinbase and Paybis). This is important because Lloyds 
was only able to process chargeback claims against the merchants he paid (Cryptonet 
exchange, Coinbase and Paybis), not another party (such as BA and FR).
The service provided by the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Mr Ws payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, they provided the 
service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mr W paid. As the 
cryptocurrency exchanges provided the requested service to Mr W its likely any chargeback 
attempt would fail. So, I think Lloyds acted reasonably by not pursuing this option.
Mr W has accepted he authorised the payments he made to Cryptonet exchange, Coinbase 
and Paybis, so the starting point here is that Mr W is responsible. However, banks and other 
Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial 
loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against 
money laundering.
The question here is whether Lloyds should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments Mr W was making.
All the payments Mr W made were to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges so the 
businesses themselves would not have caused Lloyds to have any concern. People make 
payments to these types of businesses regularly and they are legitimate payments.
The first five payments Mr W made were for relatively low amounts and were not made on 
the same day. Instead, they were spread over several months. It would not be reasonable 
for me to suggest that Lloyds should step in and stop all payments its customers make, even 
if they have not paid the business before, especially when the business their customer is 
paying is legitimate.
The sixth and largest payment Mr W made in relation to the scam was for £7,000. This was 
a larger payment and was initially stopped by Lloyds which prompted Mr W to call Lloyds to 
resolve the issue of his payment not being processed. I consider this to be a good service 
provided by Lloyds to help protect its customers from potential fraud.
I have listened to the call between Lloyds and Mr W. The Lloyds representative explained 
that the payment was stopped by the Lloyds fraud system and explained that some of these 
payments can be a scam especially when the funds are sent on to a third party after being sent to the cryptocurrency exchange. At this point Mr W confirmed the funds were not being 
sent on to anywhere else. This was clearly incorrect information which made the 
representative feel the payment Mr W was making was safe and gave him no reason for 
further concerns. So, the payment was released.
Giving the above I dont think Lloyds would reasonably have been aware of the scam Mr W 
was falling victim to or have been able to prevent his loss. So, I dont think Lloyds should 
have to refund any of the money Mr W lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman