DRN-2269327
The complaint
Mr T complains about three loans he took out with Western Circle Limited, trading as 
Cashfloat, (WCL), which he said were unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr T took out three short term loans with WCL between May 2019 and December 2019. 
Loan 1 was repayable by three monthly instalments, Loan 2 by four monthly instalments and 
Loan 3 was repayable by seven monthly instalments. All the loans have been repaid. A 
summary of the loans is shown below:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan 
amount 
1. 26/5/19 23/8/19 £350
2. 25/8/19 20/12/19 £600
3. 21/12/19 26/6/20 £600
Mr T said that he had been borrowing more often with very little time in between ending one 
loan and starting another. He also said that the amounts increased each time. The loans 
were unaffordable for him and WCL should have realised this if it had checked properly 
before agreeing to lend to him. Mr T also said that WCL didnt ask for proof of any of his 
expenses. He had various payday loans at the time, was spending large amounts on 
gambling and was also borrowing from friends and family. From his credit file the lender 
would have seen various defaults. He had also previously been in a debt management plan.
His bank statements would have shown that he was spending more than the application 
said, especially on gambling. When he applied for new loans WCL didnt ask for his bank 
statements to check if the new repayments were affordable. Mr T said that WCL had ignored 
the evidence on his credit check that his position had got more difficult or it didnt do
a new credit check. If it had done this, it would have seen the new credit he had taken out 
and the new problems showing on his credit record.
WCL explained in its final response letter that it had conducted a creditworthiness and 
affordability assessment on each loan application. Its calculations were based on the income 
and expenditure information that Mr T had provided in each of his loan applications. WCL 
said that Mr Ts net monthly income left him with sufficient funds to comfortably cover the 
agreed repayments on each of his loans, without jeopardising his existing declared credit
commitments and priority living expenses. It also used an internal proprietary credit model, 
which combines factors from the application, such as income, employment and homeowner 
status, plus various other third-party reports, to generate a final determination of a 
customers creditworthiness. 
WCL told this service that its affordability assessment took account of all of Mr Ts 
outstanding borrowings and other credit balances held by him. It said that its affordability 
check would only approve a loan if the total of all monthly credit repayments, to which an 
applicant was already committed, together with all other living expenses, left the applicant 
with sufficient disposable income to comfortably afford their repayments to WCL. 
The lender also said that Mr T had included his partners income of £1,800 in his application. 
Although this was not included in the affordability workings, it gave its underwriters the 
added confidence that the loan would be affordable. The pattern of Mr Ts loans did not give 
rise to concern, as he only took three loans with the company. As an additional 
precautionary measure, it reduced the level of Mr Ts first loan. He requested £500, and it 
only approved £350. Mr T repaid Loans 1 and 2 on time and Loan 3 was repaid earlier than 
required. 
WCL also said that it spoke with Mr T prior to funding Loan 2 and clarified aspects of his 
application. He confirmed his income of £2800. Prior to approving his final loan, Mr T 
provided a payslip as proof of his increased income of £3200. Its assessment, based on 
information obtained from Mr T and third parties, indicated clearly that he had ample
disposable income to cover the loan repayments on the new loans without affecting his 
ability to pay critical living expenses and existing credit commitments.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that there 
wasnt anything in the information Mr T had provided or the information WCL shouldve
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr T was 
saying. And he didnt think that the number of loans Mr T took, the amounts they were for or 
the period of time he was borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, shouldve shown 
WCL that Mr T mightve been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Mr T disagreed and said had WCL known about the large amount of gambling he was doing 
at the time, he believed they would not have issued him the loans. He noted that there was 
no mention of his gambling problem in the adjudicators view. He asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision. Mr T also said that hed had a few complaints upheld with different 
loan companies. Whilst he understood each case was different, these loan complaints were 
for similar amounts and taken out around the same period of time as the loans with WCL.
The adjudicator responded to say that he wouldnt have expected WCL to have
taken a deep enough look into Mr Ts finances to see any gambling issues he might have
been suffering with. Hence there was no mention of gambling in his assessment.
Mr T responded to say that he wanted an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I can see that Mr T has referred to his other complaints with this service. But we assess 
each case on its own merits and it isnt always appropriate to compare the outcomes of 
complaints without a detailed understanding of the specific facts of each complaint.
When WCL lent to Mr T the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The
relevant rules and guidance set out in CONC said that for all loans WCL needed to check 
that Mr T could afford to meet his repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Mr T 
being able to meet his repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or 
borrow further.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks WCL needed to carry out in order toreasonably assess whether or not Mr T would be able to meet his repayments sustainably.
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same
consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
WCL did a number of checks before it lent to Mr T. I can see that it asked him for details of 
his income and expenditure and carried out some credit checks. Mr T declared his monthly 
income as between £2,500 and £3,200 and his declared expenditure was £1,100 before all 
the loans. I can see that Mr T had declared existing credit and loan commitments of £550 
before Loan 1 and £500 before Loans 2 and 3. Mr T also declared his partners income of 
£1,800 before the first two loans. WCL hasnt provided any information about its credit 
checks. 
I can see that weve received a credit report from Mr T. I can see that this shows that Mr T 
had four defaulted accounts between October 2015 and August 2016. These had all been 
settled by January 2017. If WCL had seen the defaults on its checks, I dont think these 
ought to have caused WCL additional concerns in view of their age. And I dont think it would 
have been unreasonable for WCL to be more interested in Mr Ts recent credit history for the 
purposes of assessing whether Loans 1 to 3 were affordable. I can also see a payment 
arrangement on a loan on the credit report in December 2019. But as this was relatively 
close to Mr Ts application for Loan 3, I think its unlikely that this would have appeared on a 
credit check before Loan 3.
Im also aware that when a lender carries out a credit check, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a borrowers credit report will, and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. 
Mr T needed to make up to seven monthly loan repayments on Loans 1 to 3 with a highest 
monthly repayment of around £244 on Loan 2. Mr Ts declared disposable income before 
Loans 1 to 3 was at least £1,400.
I dont think the repayment amounts for any of the loans were so large that its obvious they 
wouldve caused Mr T financial difficulty. And the information Mr T gave about his income 
and outgoings indicated that the repayments would be affordable. I havent seen any further 
information that shows its likely WCL was made aware of any financial problems Mr T 
mightve been having. Or anything that I think wouldve prompted it to investigate his 
circumstances further. As there wasnt anything in the information Mr T provided at the time 
which would have given WCL cause for concern, I think it was reasonable of WCL to have 
relied on what Mr T gave it. I can also see that Mr T repaid his loans before or on the due dates. There werent any 
obvious signs of Mr T being in financial difficulties. 
So, given Mr Ts repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstance at the time, 
and Mr Ts repayment history, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for WCL to ask him 
for the amount of information that would be needed to show Loans 1 to 3 were 
unsustainable. 
There also wasnt anything in the information Mr T provided before Loans 1 to 3 or the 
information WCL shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what he was saying. 
So, I dont think WCL was wrong to give Loans 1 to 3 to Mr T.
Mr T complains that WCL didnt ask him for bank statements. But for the reasons set out 
above, I think this would have been disproportionate here. In this particular complaint, I 
wouldnt have expected WCL to have asked for bank statements or carried out any further 
checks at the time of Loans 1 to 3 for the reasons set out above. 
I appreciate that Mr T said that he was spending heavily on gambling and I dont want to 
downplay his problems in any way. But I dont think WCL needed to go as far as trying to 
independently verify Mr Ts financial information by asking to see bank statements for the 
reasons set out above. So, unless Mr T had disclosed his gambling problem when hed 
asked for Loans 1 to 3, I cant safely say that WCL would have found out about it with the 
proportionate checks it carried out that I think were reasonable here.
So overall in these circumstances, I think the assessments WCL did for these loans were 
proportionate and I dont think that WCL treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with these loans. So, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. I appreciate that 
what Ive said is going to disappoint Mr T and Im sorry to have to do that. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman