DRN-1848205
The complaint
Mr B has complained that when he was given advice by Sussex Independent Financial 
Advisers Limited (SIFA) about a lifetime mortgage in 2017 and 2018, he was never told that 
on his death his property would have to be sold and his wife, Mrs B, would lose her home. 
Mr B also says SIFA failed to give him and Mrs B legal advice about the implications for 
Mrs B of the equity release mortgage, nor any legal advice that Mrs B should be added to 
the title deeds.
Mr B says that SIFA has lost him the opportunity to pay off his existing mortgage for his wife 
and his retirement, costing him approximately £130,000.
Mr B also says that SIFA has made untrue accusations and defamatory comments about 
him.
To put the matter right Mr B would like SIFA to accept liability for its wrongdoings and 
accusations and offer a fair level of compensation. 
What happened
Mr B has a property which is owned in his sole name. At the time of the events complained 
of Mr B had a mortgage on his home of about £106,000. The property was worth 
approximately £400,000. Mr B was 71 years old at the time. He was married, but Mrs B was 
not on the title to the house.
In May 2017 he discussed with SIFA taking out an equity release mortgage. In a very 
detailed letter dated 3 May 2017 SIFA explained why, given the other potential options Mr B 
could consider, an equity release mortgage wasnt suitable. The tone and content of the 
letter reflected the long-standing friendship between Mr B and Mr H, the advisor at SIFA.
The letter said, on the first page:
I am not sure that taking out equity release and watching the equity be eaten away through 
the rollup of the interest is a clever way of dealing with your life, especially looking forward to 
when you die. If you pre-decease [Mrs B], then essentially the property will have to be sold. I 
am assuming at this point she will receive the proceeds after the mortgage, and that 
potentially will not be enough to re-house her.
SIFA prepared an illustration based on a customer of Mr Bs age, in a comparable property 
to his, so that he could see how equity release would work. But the advisor explained that (at 
the time) inflation was at 2.3%, but investors were losing money as interest rates were so 
low. SIFA thought it was a better option to retain the equity in the property and realise assets 
(primarily the sale of vehicles) to reduce or pay off the mortgage .
SIFAs letter noted the difficulty with there being separate finances between Mr B and Mrs B 
and suggested how any problems this might cause could be overcome.
The letter ended by saying that if Mr B wanted to go ahead, then a suitability report would be 
prepared. But if Mr B decided, after a suitability report had been prepared, not to go ahead 
then administrative charges would apply. SIFA noted in the letter that had Mr B confirmed 
his understanding of the position.
Mr B responded on 10 May 2017. Again, there was a lot of detail in this letter about both the 
personal friendship between Mr B and Mr H, and about Mr Bs family and personal 
circumstances. I will not refer to anything that is not relevant to the case. I note that Mr B 
stated that he considered the property and the equity in it as a means to provide 
accommodation to live in. Mr B, giving detailed reasons, was not receptive to the 
suggestions SIFA had made about resolving the issue of separate finances. Mr B said that 
he would look at the status of his current mortgage and would then think about his options.
Although in May 2017 SIFA advised Mr B that an equity release mortgage wasnt 
appropriate, a year later Mr B decided to go ahead with it, as his financial position had 
shifted slightly from a year earlier and it didnt look as if hed be able to sell his vehicles. He 
wrote to SIFA on 8 April 2018 confirming that the application should go ahead. SIFA issued 
a letter of suitability on 10 April 2018, and a Key Facts Illustration (KFI).
This letter explains how the recommended mortgage works, with interest rolled up into the 
balance. The letter says: This will affect the amount of equity that is left in the property in 
the event of your death, or sale of your property, as you will be required to repay the original 
amount that you borrowed, plus the amount of interest that has been added during the 
lifetime of the mortgage..
The KFI states at Section 5:
Repayment of the loan - You do not have to make any repayments during the life 
of this Lifetime Mortgage. The loan (including any funds withdrawn from the cash 
reserve facility and all of the outstanding interest and charges) due to Retirement 
Advantage will usually be repaid from the sale of your home. This will happen on 
your death, or on the death of the survivor (in the case of joint applicants) or if you 
move into long-term care (where there is no remaining applicant residing in the 
property). The loan must be repaid within 12 months of these events. Any money left 
over will be paid to you or your beneficiaries. Alternatively you can choose to repay 
the loan at any time but in doing so you may have to pay an Early Repayment 
Charge.
On 20 April 2018 Mr B signed the suitability letter to confirm hed read and understood the 
report. Mr B also confirmed that he was aware the terms and conditions would be set out in 
the mortgage offer and that Mr B would read these and raise any queries with the lender or 
SIFA.
In line with the recommendation made by SIFA, a mortgage offer was issued on 11 June 
2018 from a company I will refer to as RA. It was for an initial loan of £106,360, with a cash 
reserve facility of £31,190 at a fixed rate of 5.65%, against a valuation of the property of 
£370,000. The mortgage offer contained the same information as the KFI about repayment 
of the mortgage on Mr Bs death.
As is required by RA, Mr B had to take independent legal advice about the mortgage. 
Because Mrs B was not on the title deeds, she also had to have independent legal advice. 
Mr B and Mrs B attended the same firm of solicitors but, as is correct, saw two different 
solicitors who gave them each separate advice.I am told by Mr B that Mrs B declined to sign a Deed of Postponement giving priority to RAs 
legal charge over her interest in the property. Ultimately the equity release mortgage didnt 
go ahead. 
Mr B complained to SIFA.
Mr B says that during meetings in May 2017 with SIFA when he discussed an equity release 
mortgage, it was never explained to him that if he took out an equity release mortgage, on 
his death Mrs B would have to vacate the property. Mr B says this information was missing 
from letters since May 2017, as well as the suitability report and the Key Facts Illustration 
(KFI) which he was given. 
Mr B also says that SIFA failed to advise him that Mrs B would need to sign a legal 
document (which Mr B refers to as a Deed of Consent) giving priority to the mortgage, and 
that SIFAs failure to provide this legal advice was wrong. Furthermore, Mr B says that SIFA 
failed to give him any legal advice about Mrs Bs equitable interest in the property and her 
status as a co-owner, or the legalities of the mortgage recommendation.
Mr B also says that SIFA failed to provide legal advice about putting the property and 
mortgage into joint names, which would eliminate the need for there to be a Deed of 
Postponement signed by Mrs B.
In addition, Mr B says that SIFAs correspondence contained false and untruthful 
accusations concerning Mr B and his wife, which are defamatory and rude.
SIFA didnt uphold the complaint and so it was brought to us where an investigator 
considered it. He didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld, so Mr B requested an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
Mr Bs reiterated all his concerns about SIFAs failure to provide him with any legal advice 
and failure to tell him that Mrs B would need to vacate the property in the event of his death. 
Mr B also says that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is now looking at his complaint, 
not only against SIFA but against RA as well, and that a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about RA will be raised. Mr B also says I do not consider fairness as a 
reliable vehicle to base an offer of an outcome on here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain to Mr B that, although he says he doesnt consider fairness to be a reliable way 
of determining the outcome of this complaint, I am required, by the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000, to reach my determination of this complaint on the basis of what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable. 
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I confirm Ive read everything provided by Mr B and SIFA. I note that Mr B and the adviser at 
SIFA, Mr H, were previously friends of long standing, and that the complaint has ended their 
friendship. The correspondence between them contains a great deal of personal information 
about both Mr B and Mr H, none of which I will refer to. Our decisions are published and its 
important that nothing in my decision will identify Mr B.
Many of the issues raised by Mr B, whilst providing useful background in helping me 
understand the reasons why hes complained, are not matters that I can consider. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a court. So although Ive read and taken note of all the 
issues Mr B has raised, where these relate to accusations of defamation, thats something 
only a court can consider. The Financial Ombudsman Service is only able to consider 
complaints against SIFA in relation to activities regulated by the FCA.
This means that I must consider this complaint in the context of the regulated activities SIFA 
was carrying out when it gave advice to Mr B about the equity release mortgage. 
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that he says:
he was never told that upon his death Mrs B would be required to vacate the 
property; and
SIFA failed to give him legal advice about protecting Mrs Bs interests by putting the 
property into joint names which would allow them to apply for an equity release 
mortgage in joint names. 
The discussion in 2017 about equity release didnt result in an application being made. But 
Im satisfied that the letter sent to Mr B on 3 May 2017 set out clearly that, in the event of his 
death, the property would need to be sold and that this could have an impact on Mrs Bs 
situation.
I note Mr B referred back to the May 2017 discussions when he asked SIFA to go ahead 
with the equity release mortgage in April 2018. Given this, Im satisfied the advice given in 
April 2018 followed on from the discussions in May 2017.
There is some discrepancy in what Mr B has said about Mrs Bs contribution to the property. 
Mr B has told us that Mrs B Mrs B has a 30% equitable interest in the property due to her 
contribution of £80,000. But I see he told SIFA in May 2017 that the £80,000 was towards 
the purchase of a car. 
Its not for me to determine whether or not Mrs B has an equitable interest in the property 
and, if so, what percentage of the equity she is entitled to. That would be a matter for a court 
to determine, if Mr B and Mrs B are not in agreement about it. But I mention this because 
what Mr B told SIFA in May 2017 about the £80,000 is quite different from what he later told 
SIFA and what he has told the Financial Ombudsman Service when he raised his complaint. 
Mr B is clear in his complaint that Mrs B had made a legal purchase of £80,000 for a 
percentage of the property about seven years earlier (so in about 2011/2012) and that the 
purchase is supported by a legal document of Sale, she was therefore a co-owner and 
[SIFA] never have advised accordingly on all legalities of their mortgage recommendations 
considering the need of an Occupiers Deed of Consent. [sic]Yet in 2017 Mr B said that the £80,000 was towards the purchase of a car and it was 
recorded by SIFA that Mrs B did give you £80,000, which was not used to reduce the debt 
but to go towards costs for the car you are building. This was not contradicted by Mr B in 
his response dated 10 May 2017.
Where there is a discrepancy in the evidence, or a contradiction in what a complainant has 
said, I have to decide how much weight to attach to it and how it affects the credibility of the 
complainant generally. On the basis of the evidence before me, I have some concerns that 
what Mr B is now saying directly contradicts what he was saying in May 2017.  Given this, I 
have some difficulty in determining which of Mr Bs accounts is the more accurate. I am not 
suggesting that Mr B is being untruthful, but I think that in raising his complaint Mr B has 
presented his evidence in a way that does not accurately reflect what he told SIFA at the 
outset. In the circumstances, I have  as I am entitled to do  attached less weight to Mr Bs 
evidence than if it had remained consistent from the start.
In order for me to decide if SIFA failed to provide Mr B with suitable advice, it is important to 
clarify exactly what SIFA was required to do in relation to this transaction. SIFA is authorised 
by the FCA to provide advice on regulated financial products, such as mortgages, pensions, 
insurances and investments. SIFA can also provide advice about financial products that are 
unregulated, for example buy-to-let mortgages and commercial loans. The equity release 
mortgage Mr B wanted to take out was a regulated mortgage product and so fell within the 
definition of regulated advice authorised by the FCA.
But SIFA is not authorised to provide legal advice. SIFA is not a firm of solicitors regulated 
by the Solicitors Regulation Authority, nor does it offer advisory services to the public as an 
unregulated legal services provider. SIFA offers a will-writing service, debt management, 
claims management and arranging financial issues on separation or divorce, none of which 
are reserved activities that only solicitors are allowed to carry out. But there is nothing on its 
website or letterhead to suggest that any other type of legal advice is provided or offered by 
SIFA.
Mr B has complained that SIFA failed to provide him with legal advice about the implications 
for him and Mrs B of entering into the equity release mortgage and about adding her to the 
title deeds. However, Im satisfied that there was no obligation on SIFA to provide Mr B with 
this type of legal advice, as this is outside its professional remit and the services it offers.
Rather, it was the role of the independent solicitors consulted by Mr B and Mrs B to advise 
their respective clients of the implications of entering into the transaction. The requirement to 
take independent legal advice was a condition imposed by the lender, RA. It is separate 
from, and unconnected to, the advice given by SIFA about the suitability of the mortgage.
For Mr B, the solicitors were required to advise him about such things as the legal 
implications of entering into the mortgage, about its terms and conditions (including but not 
limited to, early repayment charges and sale of the property on his death) and about any 
other issues that might affect the mortgage, for example the rights of third parties in 
occupation of the property to be mortgaged. 
I do not know what advice was given to Mrs B, as this is between her and the solicitor she 
spoke to and so is legally privileged and confidential. Mrs B is not a party to this complaint 
and has provided no evidence.
The solicitors were consulted independently by Mr B and Mrs B (as required by the lender, 
RA). They are not connected with SIFA and do not fall within the remit of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. In the circumstances, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint that SIFA failed to give him legal 
advice about the mortgage; SIFA was not required to do so and, indeed, was not authorised 
to do so. Given this, there is no basis upon which I can find SIFA did anything wrong here.
Ive also looked at Mr Bs other complaint  which is that he says SIFA failed to inform him 
about, or provide him with any information stating, that the property would have to be sold in 
the event of his death. 
I note that SIFA advised Mr B in its letter dated 3 May 2017 that the property would need to 
be sold in the event of his death and that this could have implications for Mrs B. The KFI and 
the mortgage offer also both state that the loan will need to be repaid within 12 months of the 
death of the last surviving borrower (and in this case, Mr B was to be the sole borrower), and 
that this is usually achieved from the proceeds of sale of the property. 
As I have found that the advice in May 2017 and April 2018 are linked, Im satisfied that Mr B 
was made aware the property would have to be sold after his death in the correspondence, 
the KFI and the mortgage offer, when all three are  rightly  considered together.
Overall, Im satisfied that SIFA provided appropriate, detailed and suitable advice about how 
the equity release mortgage operated, including explaining to Mr B that the property would 
have to be sold upon his death.
Im also satisfied that SIFA wasnt required to provide Mr B (or Mrs B) with legal advice 
about the implications of taking out the mortgage. Its unfortunate that, after Mr B and Mrs B 
both took separate legal advice, the transaction didnt proceed, but I cant hold SIFA 
responsible for this. 
In the circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint that SIFA failed to tell him that the 
property would need to be sold after his death. The evidence that he was told is persuasive.
Mr B has told us that he has now had confirmation from the FCA that it is investigating his 
concerns about SIFA and RA (although he hasnt sent us a copy of that confirmation). Mr B 
says the FCA has asked to see all documentation from the Financial Ombudsman Service 
about his complaint. If the FCA is, in fact, carrying out an investigation, I think that would be 
unusual, as the regulator doesnt usually investigate complaints from individual consumers; 
usually the FCA simply refers consumers to the Financial Ombudsman Service. But I confirm 
that, if we are asked by the regulator to do so, we will, of course, co-operate fully with any 
FCA investigation into Mr Bs grievances against SIFA and RA.
The relationship of trust and confidence between Mr B and SIFA has completely broken 
down, as well as the friendship between Mr B and Mr H. Having read the background to the 
complaint in the documents on file, I can see that there are underlying family issues here 
that have impacted on Mr Bs circumstances, but which are not directly related to the 
mortgage advice. I sincerely hope Mr B is able to resolve those matters. I have no doubt that 
this has been a difficult and stressful time for Mr B and his family. But having considered 
everything Mr B and SIFA have told us, Im unable to find that SIFA has done anything 
wrong.
As per the letter sent in May 2017, SIFA is entitled to charge a fee for administrative work 
carried out in relation to the mortgage advice. I am told by SIFA that an invoice has not yet 
been issued. It may well be that SIFA decides to simply draw a line under this matter and not 
pursue its fees, but that it is entirely a matter for SIFAs own judgement. I know this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. Its unfortunate that Mr B might have 
misunderstood the position and thought SIFA was required to provide him with legal advice 
about property rights. But I dont think SIFA did anything to mislead Mr B about the scope of 
its role or about the extent of the advice it was giving him. 
Finally, I find the advice SIFA gave Mr B about the equity release mortgage was detailed, 
appropriate and contained all the information about the product SIFA was required to provide 
in line with its regulatory obligations. Im satisfied the equity release mortgage recommended 
was a suitable product for Mr B needs, based on his circumstances.
If Mr B decides not to accept this final decision, it will not be legally-binding on him or on 
SIFA and Mr B will be free to pursue his grievances against SIFA through the courts, if he 
wishes to do so. I would suggest Mr B takes advice from a qualified solicitor before 
embarking on any legal action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman