DRN-3142218
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled her claim following 
an escape of water in her kitchen. Miss W had home insurance with Aviva, including 
buildings and contents.
What happened
Briefly, Aviva accepted Miss Ws claim for damage to her kitchen following an escape of 
water. She complained about the delays and overall handling of her claim.
The complaint has been ongoing for some considerable time and the details are well known 
to both parties. I wont repeat them again here: instead Ill introduce each key part of the 
complaint for reference and give the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint, but I wont be asking Aviva to do any more than our 
investigators have already proposed. Ill explain.
Firstly, Miss W and Aviva have provided a lot of information about this complaint. I wont be 
commenting on every piece of evidence and our rules dont require me to. But I will be 
commenting on the issues that Miss W identified as important to her and which she raised 
directly with Aviva before bringing her complaint to this service.
Complaint handling
Miss W is unhappy that Aviva didnt respond to complaints she made.
I see our investigators explained to Miss W that its not within my remit to make a decision 
on complaint handling issues. Thats because I can only decide a complaint about the 
regulated financial service Aviva provides  here, its insurance. But Miss Ws original 
complaint was about the way it handled her claim and her additional complaints were that it 
didnt respond to all her concerns about the claim handling. Therefore, Im satisfied that I can 
consider the issues she raised because they were about or directly linked to the insurance 
claim.
That said, Im satisfied our investigators addressed these issues indirectly through 
consideration of any avoidable delays, communication shortfalls and Avivas treatment of 
Miss W throughout the claim. Ill take the same approach and explain my decision about the 
overall complaint rather than make a separate requirement for this point.
Claim handling
Miss W complained that Aviva implied she lied about the cause of the water damage, basing 
its assumption on the name of the contractor she chose. 
When Miss W explained that she planned to use a particular contractor to investigate the 
water damage, Aviva made further enquiries of her. She said that was only because of the 
contract companys name which indicated they specialised in treating damp. Having looked 
at the correspondence around this issue, I havent identified anything which caused me to 
think Aviva accused Miss W of lying. Aviva reasonably asked Miss W to clarify the cause of 
the water damage and ultimately accepted that the company she wanted to use dealt with 
issues other than damp. I dont think it was wrong for Aviva to clarify this with Miss W 
because her policy wouldnt have covered any work for damage caused only by damp. 
Miss W said Aviva made an unreasonable cash settlement offer to force her to use its 
contractors for the repairs.
When settling a claim, the policy provides for the following:
2. Settling buildings claims
We can choose to settle your claim by:
replacing;
reinstating;
repairing;
payment.
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent available in 
the current market. If we are able to replace property, but we agree to make a cash 
settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us to replace the item as if it were new.
Im satisfied that Aviva made a cash settlement offer in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, which also allow Aviva to use its own contractors to repair. So, there wouldve 
been no need to force Miss W to make a choice. It seems that Aviva underestimated the 
work required so the offer was likely premature rather than deceitful. Had Miss W accepted 
its original offer, and then found that the damage was more extensive, Aviva wouldve been 
required to reconsider the settlement amount. So, I see no benefit to Aviva in purposely 
making a low offer. Theres nothing for Aviva to put right, here.
Despite these points, its clear that the claim wasn't handled as well as it couldve been. 
There was some dispute about what, exactly, Miss Ws policy covered, which is something 
Aviva shouldve been aware of. Her claim was passed to a new claims handler within Aviva 
after which things progressed more smoothly, but it caused Miss W inconvenience because 
she had to repeat details of her claim and complaint again. Our investigator addressed this 
when proposing further compensation to the goodwill already offered by Aviva, and Ive 
taken it into consideration when deciding a fair and reasonable outcome.Delays
Miss W is unhappy with the length of time it took Aviva to settle her claim. She raised her 
claim in August 2019 and Aviva paid the cash settlement in September 2020. 
Theres no dispute that Miss Ws claim took a long time to settle. Claims of this nature do 
take time and I can understand that any delay will feel significant because of the inevitable 
inconvenience. But I can only hold Aviva responsible for any delays which were avoidable. 
Ive looked at the timeline of events, which both parties have seen, but I havent identified 
any significant delays which Aviva couldve prevented. I note there was a delay due to the 
national lockdown, so it would be unfair to place any responsibility on Aviva for that. 
Both parties are already aware that some of the delays were due to the time Miss W took to 
choose replacements for the damaged parts of her kitchen. I cant reasonably hold Aviva 
responsible for those delays either, especially as the notes reflect contact with Miss W to 
ensure she was still looking at her options. To be clear, though, Im not suggesting that Miss 
W was wrong to take her time choosing. Shed experienced a significant loss with the 
damage to her kitchen and I can understand that while she was already experiencing 
upheaval, shed want to make informed decisions about the replacements. And, as she did 
here, arrange for any additional, upgrade work to be done rather than changing things again 
later. So, the delays Miss W caused were understandable and perfectly reasonable, but I 
cant fairly ask Aviva to compensate her for those delays.
Safety 
Miss W said Aviva left her home in an unsafe state resulting in her pet becoming entangled 
in wires; injury to her and her family through trip hazards, and back pain because of the 
unnatural position she held herself in when using the kitchen sink. 
While I can see Miss W made Aviva aware she had pets which had become distressed at 
the upheaval, I havent seen any evidence that Aviva left her home in an unsafe state such 
that it couldve caused her pets any harm. While I have no reason to doubt what Miss W 
says about her pet becoming entangled, I cant hold Aviva responsible for the possible 
outcomes she described which didnt happen. 
I understand Miss W tripped over a step in the flooring which hadnt been there before. Miss 
W described it as a step up to the hall where the flooring was previously level. That makes 
sense to me because layers of flooring had been removed from the kitchen, so I dont doubt 
it was there. But I havent seen any evidence that Miss W complained to Aviva about the 
step. A step from one room to another is not necessarily a hazard, so I cant say it equates 
to being unsafe. And if Aviva wasnt made aware of the specific problem, I cant hold it 
responsible for Miss Ws complaint that it was a trip hazard.
With all this said, Ive seen the photos of Miss Ws kitchen floor and its quite clear that there 
was a large hole in front of the sink. The photos also show a relatively thin temporary 
covering taped over the hole, but I can see why Miss W wouldnt have thought it safe to 
stand on So, I accept what she says about the discomfort of standing awkwardly to use it. I 
also note that Miss W did tell Aviva she found it difficult to use the sink and she was unhappy 
with the overall state of her kitchen.  Aviva said it found the floor to be left in a safe state, but 
that was only determined some considerable months after the claim started. Ive taken this 
into consideration when deciding on the level of compensation.Alternative Accommodation
Miss W complains that Aviva didnt offer her alternative accommodation or provide a 
disturbance allowance.
As I said earlier, I can only consider issues which Miss W raised directly with Aviva and 
which it has had a chance to respond to. But, as this point has been covered in our previous 
correspondence, Ill comment on it now.
I note that Miss Ws policy only provides cover for alternative accommodation if the home 
cant be lived in. In the absence of a definition, I take that to mean no cooking or toilet 
facilities. Miss W still had use of her kitchen, albeit rather awkwardly, and Ive not seen 
anything to show that the bathroom was affected, so its unlikely Aviva wouldve been 
expected to make such an offer under the policy. 
Disturbance allowance is a payment made when alternative accommodation is offered but 
the policyholder prefers to stay at home. It covers expenses over and above the usual living 
costs incurred as a direct result of the damage. As it's unlikely Miss W was covered for 
alternative accommodation, its unlikely Aviva wouldve been responsible for paying 
disturbance allowance. 
Compensation
Our investigator thought a further £200 compensation was a fair outcome, in addition to the 
goodwill of £386.65 Aviva had already provided. Miss W didnt agree because she thought 
far more was warranted in recognition of the time it took to settle the claim; the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her and her pets, and the unsafe state her home was left in. Miss 
W also asked when Aviva had offered her £386.65 and how it was calculated.
Ive concluded on each of the issues and found that, overall, there were parts of the claim 
Aviva couldve handled better from the start. So, Ive thought about whether the 
compensation of £586.65 is fair. 
Ill start off by saying the amount of goodwill originally stated was incorrectly calculated. 
Aviva didnt provide Miss W with £386.65 - in fact, Aviva gave her more than that. Ill explain.
When Aviva settled the claim in September 2020, it offered a sum slightly less than Miss W 
expected. It explained the following:
[Aviva] will cover the additional £22.91 on the decoration but there is a discrepancy of 
£621.86 on our flooring figureswhat [Aviva] can offer is meeting half way which totals 
£310.93the new overall total payable to you is £19,665.13 plus VAT = £23,598.16
Miss W replied:
With regards to your offer, whilst I am grateful to you offering to meeting me halfway on 
the figures I think that given the considerable amount of stress and inconvenience over 
the last 13 months that the business have put me through I am sure they can stretch to 
settling the claim in full.
Aviva responded:
[Aviva] will now cover the quote in full as a gesture of goodwill for you, the new total is 
£20,044.76 plus VAT = £24,053.71Therefore, Miss W has already benefited from goodwill of £644.77 and she wouldve been 
aware of it at the time.
Before this clarification, I was satisfied that the goodwill of £386.65 and the additional £200 
compensation was reasonable for the issues Ive addressed. Aviva shouldve been aware 
that the full goodwill paid was actually £644.77, and it has already agreed to the additional 
payment of £200. As this clarification is not to Miss Ws detriment, and Aviva agreed to it, I 
dont see any benefit in making any changes now.
Therefore, my requirement is for Aviva to pay a further £200 compensation, as previously 
agreed, if it has not already done so. That means Miss W will have received total 
compensation of £844.77 for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. I think thats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Summary
The evidence shows that there was confusion during the claims process caused by the 
dispute over what the policy covered and the change in claims handler. While that caused 
Miss W some inconvenience, distress and frustration, most of the delays were minor or due 
to unavoidable circumstances and the additional private work done. Aviva covered the cost 
of work to the value of £644.77 as a gesture of goodwill and Im satisfied that payment of 
£200 compensation is sufficient to address the shortfalls discussed here and bring the 
matter to a close.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Aviva 
Insurance Limited must:
if it has not already done so, pay Miss W £200 compensation for its part in the 
inconvenience, distress and frustration caused by the unsatisfactory state her kitchen was in 
for the duration of her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman