DRN-4218306
The complaint
Mr S complains about call centre staff at Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Mr S lives overseas but was in the UK towards the end of 2022. He was due to travel back to 
his overseas address at the end of January 2023 and sent in a change of address form to 
Santander  to advise them of his overseas address.
Before he left the UK, on 27 January 2023, he went to a branch of Santander to check his 
address had been changed and was told it had been. But he then called Santander to find 
the address was still showing as his UK address. He called Santander several times and the 
address was changed to his correct overseas location on 1 February 2023. The calls which 
are central to Mr Ss complaint were on 30 January 2023.
Mr S complained. He said his change of address advice hadnt been properly actioned by 
Santander, and he had been wrongly informed by the branch that the address had been 
changed - when it hadnt.
Mr S went on to complain about Santanders call centre staff in Scotland. In his complaint to 
this service he said they harboured undertones of institutional racism; everything he said 
became an insult andclearly setting a divide for his personal enjoyment;  (they) twisted 
the English language in such a way that it becomes an insult for their own personal pleasure, 
more racist hate crimes... 
Santander said the service Mr S received in connection with the change of address process 
wasnt as good as they hoped to provide. They said theyd provide feedback to the call 
centre management about the calls, but assured Mr S that Santander doesnt condone 
discrimination on grounds of sex, race or national origin, colour, religious belief, disability, 
marital status, or sexual orientation. They paid compensation of £100 to apologise for the 
upset caused and to cover the cost of Mr S calls.
Mr S accepted the compensation. He brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said 
Santander didnt need to do any more. Santander had apologised and paid an appropriate 
amount of compensation. He didnt consider the calls between Mr S and Santanders call 
centre showed a racist element.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at Mr S complaint, the change of address history in Santanders records was:
27 January 2022 to 30 January 2023: overseas address.
30 January 2023 to 1 February 2023: UK address.
From 1 February 2023: overseas address.
When Mr S visited the branch of Santander on 27 January 2023  the branch told him his 
address had been successfully changed. On the first call on 30 January 2023  the call 
handler said it appeared that the branch had not noticed that the change was actually made 
on 27 January 2022 (not January 2023). And told Mr S that the address had been recently 
changed. This was an error. So - to me, that was where the problem first arose. 
But this then led to Mr S calling Santander to put things right  from his overseas location. It 
was clearly frustrating for him to have to do that. And for what happened, Santander 
apologised and paid compensation, to include the cost of Mr S calls, of £100  which I think 
was the right thing to do.
But  Mr S has also brought to us his complaint about Santanders call centre staff in 
Scotland. So, I will deal with that. Ive seen Mr S comments to our investigator  so let me 
say that we are not a consumer group  we dont take sides. We are independent and 
impartial and our role is to listen to both sides of a complaint, take evidence from both 
parties, and then decide on a fair and reasonable outcome  and thats what Ive done here.
I listened to the four calls which took place on 30 January 2023. I appreciate that Mr S was 
frustrated about what happened  and this comes across clearly. But equally, I must say I 
found Santanders Scottish call centre staff to be professional, calm, and courteous  and at 
each point tried to help Mr S. I didnt detect any element or sense of racism against Mr S in 
any way. And  that is at the centre of my final decision.
So  while I can appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, I consider 
Santander dealt with Mr S complaint in the way they needed to, and Im not asking them to 
do anymore here. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman