DRN-2431775
The complaint
Mr M on behalf of M complains that Revolut Ltd is sending confidential information by non-
encrypted e-mail.
What happened
Mr M says Revolut is sending him confidential information by e-mail. He says he has asked it 
to stop doing so and use encrypted e-mail but Revolut says it is unable to do so. Mr M says 
Revolut has breached General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and says he has spent 
some time bringing this complaint and would like Revolut to take steps to avoid the sending 
of confidential information in this way.
Revolut says Mr M is able to block all communications from it but it cant stop sending the e-
mails. It says the information contained within the e-mails doesnt contain information that 
could be used to compromise Ms account.
Mr M brought the complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there was no evidence of loss caused to M or that its account had been 
compromised. The investigator thought it wasnt our role to decide if there was a GDPR 
breach and not our role to tell a business to change its business practice.
Mr M says he has made a complaint to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and 
says the investigator hasnt disputed the information is confidential or was sent using an 
unsecure method. He says Revolut has breached its own privacy policy and we should not 
wait until Ms account is compromised before taking action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Revolut has dealt fairly with this 
complaint.
I appreciate Mr M says the information contained in the e-mails is confidential and that 
Revolut says the information couldnt be used to compromise the account. I make clear that 
neither side as provided me with a copy of the e-mails, but I dont think I need to see them 
for the reasons I will explain.
It is not our role to decide if there has been a GDPR breach but the role of the ICO. I can see 
that Mr M has brought a complaint to the ICO and I think that is the correct venue for such a 
complaint. I make clear to Mr M that we are not Revoluts regulator and so we cant order it 
to change the way in which it runs its business and in particular we cant order it to use 
encrypted e-mails and or to stop sending M any form of e-mails that Mr M considers are 
confidential. 
Im satisfied that Mr M would like Revolut to stop sending the e-mails but that is not 
something I can order and whilst I appreciate what Mr M says- that we ought not to wait for a 
breach of data before we act  I find that it would be for other organisations to decide upon 
the issues Mr M raises.
I hope Mr M appreciates that it is not for us to decide if Revolut has breached its own privacy 
policy or if the e-mails are sent in a way that was not secure.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman