DRN-4237857
The complaint
Miss F complains that Vanquis Bank Limited applied charges and fees to her credit card 
account in 2020 and did not do enough to help her when she was in financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss F had a credit card account with Vanquis. In April 2020, a freeze that had been active 
on her account ended, meaning interest, charges and fees would apply again. Miss F says 
she informed Vanquis she would be unable to make her minimum payments due to financial 
difficulties. Instead, she offered to pay between £40 and £50 but she says Vanquis declined 
this and no alternatives were suggested. Miss F says the fees and charges that were applied 
by Vanquis during this time affected her credit score and she requested that they be 
removed.
Vanquis issued a final response on 7 May 2021 in relation to the interest and charges that 
had been applied to Miss Fs account between April and September 2020. They confirmed 
that the interest and charges had been applied correctly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. So, they did not agree to refund them. 
Miss F referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They found 
that Vanquis had given Miss F six months to refer the complaint to our service following the 
final response letter in May 2021, however, Miss F did not refer her case to us until 16 
months later, so they did not think the complaint about the fees and charges that had been 
applied to Miss Fs credit card account was within our jurisdiction. 
As Miss F disagreed, the complaint was passed to me and I issued a jurisdiction decision in 
which I set out my reasons why I did not think the fees and charges part of the complaint 
could be considered further, as it had been referred to us too late. However, I said that we 
could look into Miss Fs complaint points around the financial difficulties she faced and that 
she did not think Vanquis had provided her with enough support. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F says that Vanquis did not offer her enough support when her repayment option plan 
came to an end in early 2020. She has provided us with screenshots of her communications 
with Vanquis at the time via text messages. And Miss F feels this shows Vanquis did not 
adequately help her at that time. 
Ive reviewed the text messages and can see that Vanquis contacted Miss F when her 
repayment option plan was coming to an end in March 2020, to see if she needed additional 
support. I can see Miss F responded to say that she could only afford between £40 and £50 
per month. Following a further discussion, Vanquis explain that Miss F was reaching the 
maximum entitlement for reduced income and asked if anything else had changed in her 
circumstances. However, it does not appear that Miss F responded.
A similar scenario occurred when Miss F missed a payment in May. Vanquis asked further 
questions about Miss Fs situation however after a few questions Miss F stopped 
responding. In July 2020, Vanquis highlighted a missed payment and asked Miss F what had 
changed that caused her to fall behind however Miss F did not respond. Each time Miss F 
missed a payment, Vanquis also provided a telephone number for Miss F to call if needed. 
Miss F has said that she telephoned Vanquis in August 2020 to discuss her situation and 
mentioned during the call that she had health issues that were affecting her. As a result, 
Vanquis asked her for information and evidence about her heath issues in order to set up a 
new repayment option plan that would essentially freeze her account. Her new plan was set 
up in September 2020.
Having considered Vanquis actions, I think they treated Miss F fairly in the circumstances. 
They contacted Miss F when she had missed payments and asked further questions to try 
and find out more about her financial situation. However, Miss F also had to engage with 
Vanquis, which I can see she did up to a point. When Miss F stopped responding to Vanquis 
texts, I think it was reasonable at that time that Vanquis did not pursue communication 
further. I can see that they gave Miss F alternative methods of communication if she wanted 
to contact them, which she eventually did. And I note that at that time, Miss F had only 
missed a few contractual payments, so I think Vanquis response at that time was 
proportionate.
Miss F telephoned Vanquis in August and unfortunately the call recording has not been 
provided. However, Miss F has said that her medical issues were discussed and Vanquis 
started the process of setting up a new repayment option plan to freeze the account. 
On balance, this sounds like the appropriate response based on the information Miss F says 
she provide in the call. Miss F explained why her financial situation was affected and was 
asked to provide further evidence of this so that a freeze could be applied to the account. As 
a result, I dont think Vanquis made an error in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Miss F has said she thinks the payment freeze should have been backdated, 
however, looking at the terms and conditions for the repayment option plan it does not 
appear this was a standard feature of the policy. As mentioned previously, I think Vanquis 
took reasonable steps based on what it knew about Miss Fs financial situation at each point 
of contact, so I dont think it has made an error in the circumstances. And I dont direct it to 
take any further action to remedy Miss Fs complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Fs complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman