DRN-3148177
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) has 
started their collection process for a fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
Mr C said hed made several successful PPI claims against a variety of lenders. He said 
FTR contacted him near to the deadline date for making such claims  August 2019, and he 
agreed to use their services. In July 2020 he noticed a credit into his bank account in excess 
of £10,000. He found out this was for a successful PPI claim for his mortgage account with 
his lender Ill call B. Mr C wasnt happy that this policy hadnt been picked up when hed 
made his previous claims. But said as FTR had submitted his claim it was right they should 
be paid their fee. He asked FTR for a repayment plan as he couldnt pay the entire fee. Mr C 
said this was agreed and hed made several payments, only for FTR to pass the outstanding 
balance for collection which meant he incurred additional charges. He complained to FTR.
FTR said Mr C had discussed a payment plan with them and had been told he needed to 
complete an income and expenditure form. Mr C had made payments towards settling the 
fee, but as he hadnt returned the income and expenditure form a payment plan hadnt been 
put in place. In October 2020, FTR said they told Mr C that if the payment to settle the 
outstanding balance wasnt made his case would be passed to their solicitors. As the 
outstanding balance wasnt settled, in November 2020 they passed Mr Cs details over to 
their solicitors.
Mr C wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that FTR was justified in asking for their success fee. And that their 
terms and conditions were clear about payment of the fees.
Mr C didnt agree he said FTR had verbally agreed to his repayment offer and hed made the 
payments on time. He asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr C instructed FTR in August 2019 to pursue PPI claims on his 
behalf. The agreement Mr C had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means FTR 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. This 
meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, FTRS fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
Mr Cs claim was submitted by FTR just prior to the August deadline, and the claim was 
successful, so FTR asked Mr C to pay their success fee. And I can see Mr C doesnt dispute 
that he owes the fee to them. So, in reaching my decision I need to determine whether FTR 
has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr C.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration as he feels his lenders should have investigated any PPI 
policies, hed with them without the need for him to use FTRs services. But I cant hold FTR 
responsible for this. Mr C has confirmed he signed FTRs letter of authority in August 2019 
instructing them to act for him. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Should you receive and accept an offer for the balance of a credit agreement to be written
off, or for redress/compensation to be offset against arrears, the fees will be calculated at
24% me VAT of the write off or amount offset.
In July 2020, B told both Mr C and FTR that Mr Cs claim was successful, and the amount 
of compensation offered. The notification read:
I have made my decision after reviewing the information provided by you, the
information provided by Fast T rack Reclaim and our internal system evidence.
As Mr Cs PPI claim was successful FTRs fee became due, and they asked Mr C to pay 
their fee. I can see FTR notified Mr C in August, September and October 2020 of the fee that 
he owed to them, and that they also spoke to Mr C.
In September 2020, FTR called Mr C to check hed received the redress from B and about 
the settling of their fee. Ive listened to the call between them. While Mr C makes clear his 
intentions for settling the success fee, I also think FTR make clear that to consider a 
payment plan Mr C needed to complete an income and expenditure form. And in the 
subsequent calls when Mr C makes payments towards reducing the outstanding fee, FTR 
make clear again the need for him to return the income and expenditure form. 
I know Mr C was confident he could maintain a monthly repayment. But FTR told him several 
times he needed to return the income and expenditure form to stop their collections process. 
And in one call Mr C does agree to do this  Ill get that done, no problem. But I cant see 
that Mr C completed and returned the income and expenditure form, so I dont think FTR 
acted unreasonably as a payment plan hadnt been put in place.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
In the event that a fee due to us by you remains unpaid after 21 days then the relevant
administration charge m accordance with the Late Payment of Commercial Debts
Regulations 2013 will be added to the outstanding balance and late payment interest will be
calculated at 8% per annum from the date that the fee became due until the date payment is 
made.
Mr C said FTR didnt tell him that they would be referring him to their solicitors. I can see 
from FTRs records that the invoices and requests for payments sent to him in September 
and October 2020 continually asked for the full outstanding balance to be paid. They also 
make clear that any part payment will not have been deducted. And go on to explain what 
will happen if full payment wasnt made, including referral to their solicitors. FTRs terms and 
conditions say:
Should FTR have to take steps to recover any due fees from you, then you will be liable to 
pay any third party recovery costs. In October 2020, FTRs records show they sent Mr C a Final letter before action, which 
clearly states that Mr C had five days to settle his account in full before legal action would 
commence.
While I can understand Mr C was making his best endeavour to pay FTR their success fee, I 
think it was made clear the process he needed to follow for FTR to stop their collections 
process. Mr C didnt complete or return the income and expenditure form so I cant say FTR 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the actions theyve taken. 
I understand Mr C is continuing to make payments to clear his outstanding balance, and I 
expect FTR to work with Mr C to help him in settling his outstanding balance with them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman