DRN-3576719
The complaint
Mr B complains that the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct), have been 
unreasonable when dealing with his request for a modified debit card.
What happened
First Direct decided to switch their debit card provider. I shall refer to their existing provider 
as A and their new provider as B. 
Mr B received a leaflet which described the features and benefits of First Directs new debit 
card with provider B. This informed Mr B that, upon receipt of the new card, his existing card 
would only work for a further thirty days. Also, the new card would be equipped with 
contactless technology and, for those customers who currently had a non-contactless card, 
there was an option for this facility to be switched off.
Mr B had a requirement for a debit card without any contactless features and, for business 
reasons, continuity of the same card number. He had reason to believe provider Bs card 
could be adapted and he contacted First Direct at the end of July 2021 to check his new card 
would not have any contactless features. Mr B was unable to get a response as the call was 
placed on hold and then disconnected.
Mr B received his new card in August 2021. However, it met neither of his requirements and 
as he felt his request had been ignored he returned it by special delivery and included a 
letter. As he didnt receive a response, he sent a second letter again by special delivery. He 
didnt get a response to this letter either, so he phoned First Direct at the end of September 
2021.
First Direct said no letters had been scanned onto their system and they would need to 
investigate. The representative could see a note that Mr B enquired about a card without 
contactless features and tried to assist him. The only information Mr B gave was certain 
details were not applied and he declined to discuss the content of his letters. This is 
because he felt it was important for the letters to be found and for him to receive a formal 
response. To manage Mr Bs expectations the representative said it was not possible to 
have a card without contactless functionality. Mr B disagreed.
First Direct could not find the two letters and, in letters dated 13 October 2021 and 4 
November 2021, apologised to Mr B, explaining the cause as being post room scanning 
errors. 
Mr B re-sent the missing letter. This enabled First Direct to respond to his request for a 
modified card on 4 November 2021. First Direct informed Mr B that it was not possible to 
have the same card number as providers A and B run individual card scheme. Also, they 
would not be issuing cards without contactless functionality. As First Direct were aware his 
previous card no longer worked and werent sure if Mr B wanted the new card, they 
encouraged him to call them. To reinforce their apology for the scanning errors, First Direct 
informed him that his account would be credited with £50.
Mr B complained to our service. Mr B feels the loss of two letters is unbelievable and he 
considers First Directs explanation to be coercive gaslighting. In addition, he found the 
crediting of £50 without his permission or agreement to be passive aggressive bullying. Also, 
as First Direct have since acknowledged that cards can technically be produced without 
contactless functionality, Mr B considers they have acted unreasonably in declining his 
request. Finally, Mr B states that First Direct have acted in a high-handed and patronising 
way and, to put things right, they should provide a modified card that meets his 
requirements.  
Our investigator didnt think First Direct had made any errors. He also thought they had 
taken reasonable and proportionate action to address the letters issue and considered £50 
fair compensation.
As Mr B remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not asking First Direct to take any further 
action.
I first considered the loss of the two letters and Mr Bs complaints about honesty and duty of 
care.
I can understand why Mr B has questioned First Directs explanation. This is because First 
Direct made the same post room scanning mistake twice and did not elaborate on the issue 
or scale. However, as First Direct scan significant volumes of post I do find their explanation 
plausible and therefore do not see it as a coercive gaslighting attempt. Our service does not 
regulate business processes, procedures and policies and, whilst a more detailed response 
on the administrative issues would have been helpful, Im satisfied that First Direct took 
responsibility for the errors that occurred. 
As soon as they realised that the two letters had not been scanned, First Direct launched an 
investigation and tried to understand the contents so they could assist Mr B. Whilst I 
understand Mr B wanted a written response once the letters were found, this approach made 
it difficult for First Direct to resolve the issues.
Regarding First Direct crediting £50 compensation without Mr Bs permission or agreement it 
is not the role of our service to tell businesses how to manage complaints. I can though see 
that the compensation was communicated on 4 November 2021 and First Direct clearly 
explained the reason for the offer. This was because they had failed to provide excellent 
service and wanted to reinforce their apology. Also, in their earlier letter, they had already 
apologised and signposted Mr B to our service. Im satisfied that £50 compensation is fair 
and reasonable action to address the post handling errors.
I then considered Mr Bs complaint that, by acknowledging that cards can be produced 
without contactless functionality, First Direct have acted unreasonably in declining his 
request. 
Mr B received information that cards can technically be produced without contactless 
functionality and First Direct do not dispute this. First Directs decision not to have cards 
without contactless functionality is for commercial reasons and it is not for our service to tell 
First Direct how to run their business. Whilst the new card does not meet Mr Bs expectations and it is his prerogative not to accept it, First Direct are entitled to make such a 
decision as a business. This is a decision theyve made that impacts all of their customers 
and so theyre not treating Mr B any differently to anyone else here. Thats clearly 
inconvenient and frustrating for Mr B, but isnt a reason I can fairly tell First Direct that they 
should offer a product theyre no longer willing to, or to make an exception to a wide-ranging 
decision theyve made as a business.
Also, I have looked at the leaflet First Direct sent to Mr B prior to sending his new card, and I 
can see they clearly communicated that the contactless facility could be turned off. I can 
understand Mr Bs dissatisfaction as he previously had a card without contactless 
functionality, however Im satisfied First Direct have acted in a fair and reasonable way by 
giving him notice of its intention to make this change. That way, Mr B could have made other 
arrangements in that time.
Regarding continuation of the same number, I can understand why this is important to Mr B. 
However, First Direct have made a business decision to change card providers and in 
making this change unfortunately it is not technically possible for any customer to retain the 
number.
Finally, I considered Mr Bs complaint that by cancelling his previous card First Direct have 
denied him a card and did so in a high-handed and patronising way.
Mr B finds himself in a position where he doesnt have a card. This is because he doesnt 
accept that a modified card with provider B cant be provided and, because of the change in 
providers, his previous card is no longer valid. As mentioned above, First Direct are entitled 
to change providers, and this change means they no longer use provider A and cant 
therefore reinstate Mr Bs previous card. Therefore, if Mr B requires a card with First Direct 
his only option is to have the new card, with a different number and contactless functionality 
switched off. The only reason First Direct havent sent Mr B a card is because he has made 
it clear that he only wants a modified card which they have said they cant supply. Im 
therefore satisfied that First Directs action is reasonable. Also, having reviewed the file, I 
cant agree that First Direct have acted in the way Mr B describes.
Whilst I understand Mr Bs frustration, I havent seen anything which suggests First Direct 
have acted unreasonably or unfairly and I dont think First Direct need to do anything further 
in this case.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank plc, trading as First Direct, have already made an offer to pay Mr B £50 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank plc, trading as First Direct, should pay Mr B £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman