DRN-2009970
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) in 2001.
What happened
Mr C took out PPI to protect his mortgage payments in April 2001 following a meeting in a 
bank branch, and he increased his cover in November 2001 when he increased his 
borrowings.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr C disagreed with these findings. He has highlighted the employee benefits that he recalls 
he was entitled to when sold PPI, and he has questioned why he needed the policy. Mr C 
has also pointed out that PPI would only have covered him in the event of a successful claim 
for up to 12 months, and he feels this did not provide him with worthwhile additional 
protection bearing in mind his employee benefits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Mr C has stated that he does not recall PPI being discussed during the meeting that resulted 
in it being taken out. Clearly I cannot know for certain what discussions took place at this 
time. I am also mindful that, with the sale taking place a number of years ago, it might be 
difficult to recall the full discussions that took place at that time.
Lloyds has provided copies of the PPI application forms that were completed when Mr C 
took out PPI in April and November 2001. Both of the forms were signed by Mr C, requesting 
that PPI be taken out.
I have carefully considered Mr Cs description of the PPI sale. But based on the weight of 
evidence available, and in particular the PPI application forms that Mr C signed which were 
separate to the mortgage application forms, my view is that it is more likely than not that Mr 
C was given the option whether or not to take out PPI, and he agreed to take it.
Lloyds advised Mr C to take out PPI. It therefore had to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice it gave was suitable. It also had to give clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the PPI so that Mr C could make a properly informed choice.
Having looked at his circumstances when the policy was sold, my view is that the policy was 
suitable for the following reasons:
Mr C has said that he was entitled to pay in the event of sickness or redundancy, and he 
has confirmed what he recalls were the levels of sick pay available to him. Although Mr C 
has said he believes he would have received 12 months full pay if off work sick, followed 
by 12 months half pay, he has not been able to provide documentary evidence of this. I 
would comment that in my view, these levels of sick pay are not commonplace.
Mr C has also said that his family could have helped him meet his mortgage repayments 
if he wasnt working. However it seems to me that family assistance cannot be 
guaranteed for an unknown date in the future.
The PPI policy would have paid out an amount to help cover the mortgage repayments if 
Mr C had been unable to work due to disability or unemployment, and this would have 
been in addition to any other benefits he received. I acknowledge Mr Cs comments that 
the policy would only have paid benefits for up to 12 months in the event of a successful 
claim. But on balance, bearing in mind the importance of meeting mortgage repayments, 
my view is that PPI did provide a useful benefit to Mr C if he was unable to work because 
of disability or unemployment.
Mr C was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main 
things not covered by the policy that might make it unsuitable for him.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable 
when the policy was sold.
There might have been other areas in which Lloyds didnt give Mr C as much information as 
it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy was suitable, my 
view is that better information would not have put him off taking out the PPI. Although I 
appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed with my findings, my conclusion is that the policy 
was not mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020. 
John Swain
Ombudsman