DRN-3782093
The complaint
Mr L complains that when his insurance policy for his dog renewed in June 2021 Covea 
Insurance plc didnt send him his policy documents. Because of this he says he wasnt 
aware of changes to his policy including an increase in his policy excess, and a 15% 
contribution for certain breeds of dog. And hes unhappy that two policy excesses were 
deducted as the treatment he claimed for spanned two policy years. 
What happened
Mr L has had pet insurance for his dog since 2018. His policy was due to renew on 29 June 
2021. Coveas system notes show that Mr L was sent a renewal invitation by email on 15 
June 2021. Mr L called them on 16 June 2021 as he hadnt received his renewal invitation 
and it was agreed that this would be resent. During this conversation Mr L told Covea that he 
would be moving at the end of the month and would contact them once hed moved.
Covea say that as they didnt hear from Mr L after this conversation, they assumed that hed 
received the resent renewal invitation.
Mr L was sent his renewal pack on 24 June 2021. He called Covea on 2 July 2021 to query 
his monthly direct debit payment and to provide details of his new address, which was 
updated on Coveas system. He was given details of his new premium. Mr L told Covea he 
hadnt been receiving emails from them. His email details were checked, and Mr L confirmed 
they had the correct details. 
Covea agreed to send Mr L a copy of his policy documents by post. These included his 
insurance certificate and a Notice to Policyholders which included details of changes to his 
policy excess and to the 15% contribution for certain breeds of dog. This was relevant to Mr 
L as his dog is a French bulldog, one of the breeds where a 15% contribution to the cost of 
treatment now applies. The policy documents Covea sent Mr L confirmed his cover was now 
with them, as his previous insurers had withdrawn from the pet insurance market. 
On 5 August 2021 Covea pre-authorised treatment for Mr Ls dogs anal glands. And on 24 
August 2021 Covea received Mr Ls claim for his dogs treatment. This claim covered 
treatment the dog had received on 3 July 2020 and 18 August 2021. Mr L is unhappy that 
two policy excesses were deducted from the amount he claimed, as the treatment was for 
the same condition. And that a 15% deduction had been made for his contribution to the cost 
of treatment on 18 August 2021.
Mr Ls policy cover runs from 29 June to 28 June in the following year. So the claim for the 
treatment his dog received on 3 July 2020 was covered by his policy effective from 29 June 
2020 to 28 June 2021. And the treatment on 18 August 2021 was covered by the policy in 
place from 29 June 2021 to 28 June 2022. As his insurer changed from 29 June 2021 the 
claims for the were dealt with by the insurer responsible for the relevant period of cover.
Mr L complained to Covea who didnt uphold his complaint. They said after hed told them he 
hadnt received his renewal documentation this was sent again to his correct email address. 
And when he told them he hadnt received his policy documentation theyd sent a copy to 
him in the post, and this included details of changes to his excess and of the 15% 
contribution excess for certain breeds of dog. 
Covea also said theyd called Mr L on 5 August 2021 to confirm pre-authorisation for his 
dogs treatment. 
Mr L complained to Covea after the claim for his dogs treatment was settled. They 
apologised for not confirming the excess he was required to pay when they spoke to him on 
5 August 2021, and for his claim initially being processed incorrectly. But they said hed been 
advised of the 15% contribution he was required to make towards the cost of treatment, and 
that the correct excess had been applied, as his claim related to treatment in two policy 
years.
Mr L wasnt happy with Coveas response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case but didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said Covea had done what they 
were required to do apart from initially confirming the excess Mr L was required to pay. He 
was satisfied that when Mr L told Covea he hadnt received his renewal documentation, 
theyd resent it to the correct email address. And that they posted his policy documentation 
to his new address. So our investigator was satisfied Covea have fulfilled their obligation to 
send Mr L details of the changes of his policy.
Mr L wasnt happy with our investigators opinion. He thinks its unfair that our investigator 
had accepted that Covea had sent him his renewal documents based on what their system 
says. As hed not previously had any problems receiving emails about his policy, but he 
hadnt received them when changes had been made to the terms and conditions. He thinks 
our investigator unfairly sided with Covea.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two complaint points made by Mr L that I need to consider.
Firstly, was it correct that Covea applied an increased policy excess and a further 15% 
excess due to his dogs breed, when Mr L says he didnt receive either his renewal 
documentation or his updated policy terms and conditions. To consider this I need to decide 
whether Covea did what wed expect of them to notify Mr L of the changes to his policy.
Mr L contacted Covea on 16 June 2021 and told them he hadnt received his renewal 
invitation. Covea agreed to send this again and theyve provided a copy of the emails sent to 
Mr Ls correct email address attaching his renewal documents. So Im satisfied these were 
sent. 
This isnt just a case of accepting what Covea have said. Theyve provided evidence that 
they sent the emails to Mr Ls correct email address, and his policy documents to his correct 
postal address. This is what Id expect them to do and I cant hold them responsible if they 
werent received. And after their telephone conversation with Mr L on 5 August 2021 Covea 
sent the updated policy documents to Mr L again. Their covering letter makes it clear that 
theyd been changes to his policy, so Im satisfied he knew this before he made his claim.
The documentation Covea sent Mr L included a Notice to Policyholder which provided 
details of the changes to his policy. The changes relevant to Mr Ls complaint are that the policy excess for dogs has increased to £105, and that for select breeds of dogs the 15% 
contribution age has lowered to 0. Select breeds are listed on page three of the Life Policy 
Terms and Conditions and include French Bulldogs, the breed of dog Mr L owns.
So when Mr L made his claim for his dogs treatment Im satisfied that he knew, or ought to 
have known, that his policy excess had increased to £105 and he was also required to make 
a 15% contribution towards his vets fees.
I also need to consider whether it was fair that Mr L was charged two policy excesses when 
he submitted his claim. The claim was submitted on 24 August 2021. Although it related to 
treatment for the same condition Mr Ls dog had received treatment on 3 July 2020 and 18 
August 2021. 
Mr Ls policy makes it clear that the excess is The amount shown on your current Certificate 
of Insurance that you will have to pay in each policy year for each unrelated claim before we 
make any payment. If the claim continues into a subsequent policy year we will deduct a 
further excess payment. As his dog received treatment in 2020 and 2021 the treatment fell 
into two policy years, so two separate excesses were payable. 
So Im satisfied that Covea did what was required of them to notify Mr L of the changes to 
the terms and conditions of his policy. And that as his claim was for treatment in two 
separate policy years, two policy excesses were correctly deducted from his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman