DRN-4517353
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) handled a claim 
under an insurance warranty he has for a cooker hood.  
Any reference to D&G includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events.
Mr Z had a warranty policy for a cooker hood  the policy was underwritten by D&G. 
The policy provided cover for breakdowns, accidental damage, and replacement of 
the cooker hood if D&G was unable to repair it. 
In April 2023, a replacement cooker hood was delivered to Mr Z. In July, he 
contacted D&G to say it wasnt suitable and so, wanted D&G to provide an 
alternative replacement  but D&G declined to do so. 
It said it had met its obligations under the policy to provide a replacement. It added 
that it had also been more than 30 days since the replacement had been delivered 
and so it couldnt assist with requesting an exchange. It advised Mr Z to speak to the 
supplier directly to see if it could assist. 
In its final response, D&G said that as a replacement had been provided it had met 
its obligations and the policy had now come to an end  in line with the policys terms 
and conditions.
Unhappy, Mr Z brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but 
didnt uphold it. She said Mr Z had selected the replacement cooker hood himself  
and so, she wasnt satisfied D&G were at fault for it not fitting. She said Mr Z hadnt 
contacted D&G until three months after he took delivery of the appliance, which was 
considerably outside the timeframe in which it said it could consider exchanging the 
cooker hood.
Mr Z disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the Investigator reached  Ill explain why. But 
before I do, I want to make it clear Im only considering the issue of whether D&G acted fairly 
and reasonably by declining to provide another replacement cooker hood to Mr Z. Im aware 
Mr Z had made a previous complaint about the service hed received from D&G and 
installation costs not being a benefit of the policy, but these issues arent the subject matter 
of this complaint  and so, I wont be commenting on them.
The policy says D&G can choose to repair or replace a product. And that the product will be 
replaced with one of a same or similar make and specification. 
Ive listened to the call where D&Gs advisor explains to Mr Z how he can access and 
compare his original cooker hood and a replacement product  and that additional 
replacement options were made available to him. I also note Mr Z was instructed to make 
the selection himself. So, whilst I understand hes frustrated the cooker hood isnt suitable, 
this wasnt because of an error on D&Gs part as ultimately, he selected it. I also have to 
keep in mind that the policy doesnt say Mr Z will be provided with a replacement which 
exactly matches his original cooker hood  rather the replacement will be one of a similar 
make and specification. 
D&G has said if Mr Z had made it aware of the problem within 30 days of him taking delivery 
of the appliance it could have considered exchanging it  though it wasnt obligated to  and 
I consider this to have been a reasonable gesture. But Mr Z took approximately three 
months to report the issue to D&G. With this in mind, Im satisfied D&Gs decision to decline 
providing another replacement cooker hood to be reasonable in the circumstances. 
D&G has explained Mr Zs policy has now come to an end because its fulfilled its obligation 
to replace the product. This is reflected in the policy document which says If we arrange to 
replace your product (or to pay a settlement towards a replacement), your policy will end 
immediately. No fee paid will be refunded. As Im satisfied D&G has fulfilled its obligations 
under the policy  by providing a replacement cooker hood - Im satisfied it has acted fairly 
by bringing the policy to an end following this.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr Z, but for the reasons set out above, Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman