DRN-2840288
The complaint
Ms J complains that Nationwide Building Society, (Nationwide) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance, (PPI), policies with two unsecured personal loans.
What happened
Ms J purchased the policies in 1998 and 1999. They were both single premium policies. 
This means that they were each paid for as a lump sum at the time the relevant loan was 
taken out, by way of additional borrowing. 
Our adjudicator recommended that Ms Js complaint should be upheld. But as Nationwide 
disagreed with this view, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Js case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Js complaint. I explain why below.
I cant be certain that Ive seen the actual policy terms and conditions that applied to Ms Js 
PPI for the 1998 sale. But I have seen some of Nationwides other polices and other 
literature it utilised around that time And I find its fair and reasonable to assume that that 
policy wouldnt have paid out for an unemployment claim following a period of temporary 
employment or a fixed term employment contract.
The policy that applied to Ms J following the 1999 sale wouldnt have covered her for an 
unemployment claim in the above circumstances either.
I think this would have mattered to Ms J. I say this because she says that at the time of the 
sale in 1998 she was working under a fixed term contract. After that came to an end, and 
including the time of the sale in 1999, she says she had a series of temporary positions. Ive 
seen information from HMRC that I find, on balance, supports what shes told us. Im aware 
that this information contradicts other information that Ms J gave to Nationwide in 2015. But 
this was some 15 years after the policies were sold. And, particularly in view of what Ms J 
has told us about her personal circumstances around that time, I dont find that this latter 
information can reasonably be relied upon. Instead Im satisfied that it is reasonable for me 
to rely on the written evidence provided by a disinterested third party.
Ms J says that Nationwide advised her to take out the policies. Nationwide says it didnt. 
Based on what we know generally about the way Nationwide sold PPI, on balance, I dont 
think Nationwide recommended that Ms J took out the PPI. This means that it didnt have to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for her needs. But left it up to her to 
decide if she wanted it, in the light of her circumstances at the time. Nationwide however still 
had to give Ms J clear, fair and not-misleading information about the PPI so that she could 
be properly informed to make her decisions. 
I can see that the exclusions applicable to unemployment claims, referred to above, were 
mentioned in the loan application booklet in use at the time of the 1998 sale. But this was 
part-way through a multi-page document without any highlighting or other warning to draw 
the applicants attention to this section. And I dont consider this would have made the 
exclusions sufficiently clear to Ms J had she seen the booklet before taking out the PPI. And 
I havent seen anything else to show that Nationwide told Ms J about the exclusions in 
respect of either of the sales. I think that had Ms J realised that the PPI wouldnt have 
covered her for any unemployment claims made in her employment circumstances at the 
times of the sales, she likely wouldnt have taken out the policies. This means that Ms J has 
lost out because of what Nationwide failed to do.
As Ive said, Ive considered everything Nationwide has told us, including in full its response 
to our adjudicators view. Dealing with the main points raised in that I would comment as 
follows:
I agree with Nationwide that the evidence provided by Ms J doesnt specifically confirm 
that she was employed on a temporary or fixed term basis at the times of the sales. But, 
as Ive said above, on balance I find that the number of roles that Ive seen she had, 
makes this most likely to have been the case. And I havent seen anything to show that, 
at the times of the sales, Nationwide asked Ms J whether her stated employments were 
not permanent positions. And Im satisfied that, without having clear information about 
this, it wouldnt have been reasonable to expect her to realise that this fact would affect 
the suitability of the insurance and should therefore have been mentioned.
For the same reasons Ive given earlier regarding what she said about the nature of her 
employment, I dont find that it is reasonable to rely on the information Ms J gave in 
2015 regarding her entitlement to sick pay.
At the time of the sale in 1998 Ms J, told Nationwide that she had been employed for ten 
months. Im satisfied that employment for this length of time doesnt indicate that she 
was in a permanent role or otherwise. So I find that this doesnt contradict what she has 
said about her being on a fixed-term contract at that time. (She told us that she was 
employed for maternity cover.) And the fact that this period of employment was more 
than six months doesnt prevent the policys exclusion of claims for unemployment after 
a fixed term applying;
On balance, I can find nothing that contradicts what Ms Js told Nationwide her 
employment was at the time of the sale in 1999. It seems that her salary may have been 
paid by several employers in the 12 months preceding it. But this could be because she 
worked for the agency she specified in between taking temporary positions elsewhere 
that it arranged for her. With her salary being paid either by that agency or the 
employers at the temporary roles she had.In view of the time that has passed, I think its unreasonable to expect that further 
evidence regarding Ms Js roles at the time of the sales can now be obtained.
So Nationwides comments on our adjudicators view do not change my decision.
 
Putting things right
Ms J borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should have been. 
She paid more than she should have each month and it cost her more to repay the loan than 
it would have. So Ms J needs to get back the extra shes paid.
So, Nationwide should:
Work out and pay Ms J the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would have paid without PPI.
Work out and pay Ms J the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms J paid from when she paid it until she 
gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
 If Ms J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Ms J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is to uphold Ms Js complaint. And I order 
Nationwide Building Society to pay Ms J compensation in line with the approach set out 
above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021. 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman