DRN-2756731
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC are holding her liable for a disputed payment 
made from her account.
What happened
In August 2020, Miss D received a text message from Barclays letting her know she had 
insufficient funds in her account. Miss D logged on to her online banking and noticed a 
transaction for a third-party company for around £600. Miss D phoned Barclays to dispute 
this transaction. Barclays credited Miss Ds account with a temporary refund while they 
investigated the claim.
Later in August 2020, Barclays received a response from the third-party merchant. Barclays 
wrote to Miss D and asked her to contact them within 10 working days, otherwise they would 
close the dispute. Miss D says she didnt receive this letter as Barclays sent it to her parents 
address and she was away at University at the time. When Barclays didnt receive a 
response from Miss D, they closed the claim and re-debited Miss Ds account with the 
disputed amount. 
Miss D complained. Barclays explained they were holding Miss D liable as the information 
from the third-party merchant showed the transaction was for a hotel booking in another 
country in Miss Ds name. And as they hadnt heard back from Miss D when they tried to 
contact her, they closed the claim.
Miss D brought the complaint to our service. She told our investigator that it wasnt her who 
purchased the hotel booking  and that she keeps her card in her phone case which is with 
her at all times. Miss D also explained that at the time she was living at her parents with her 
mother and siblings.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought it was more likely than not Miss D 
who carried out the transaction. Our investigator also found that Miss D had received a 
recent refund from another company for flights to the same destination as the hotel booking. 
And as the hotel booking was made in Miss Ds name, she didnt think it was likely a 
fraudster. Miss D didnt agree.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Miss Ds complaint. Ive explained the reasons for my 
decision below.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss Ds genuine card details were used 
to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on 
its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold her liable. So I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss D consented to the transaction 
being made.
From what Ive seen I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Miss D 
authorised the transaction. This is because:
Miss D has explained at the time of the disputed transaction she lived with her 
mother and siblings and none of them had access to her card. 
Miss D said her card is kept in the back of her phone case and it never went missing 
 so Im unable to find a reasonable explanation as to how somebody would have 
known her long card number, and the three digit CVC code to complete the 
transaction.
The hotel booking was made in Miss Ds name, with her correct address details. The 
email address used wasnt Miss Ds email address, but it was an email which 
contained her full name. And the mobile number used for the transaction was only 
two digits different to Miss Ds general number.
I find it unusual that a fraudster would make a hotel booking in Miss Ds name and 
with a lot of her other personal information. It wouldnt benefit a fraudster to do this as 
they wouldnt be able to use the hotel room themselves.
Prior to this transaction being made, Miss D received a refund from another company 
for flight tickets to the same destination as the hotel booking. 
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments, I think its more likely than not that 
Miss D did authorise the disputed transaction. And therefore, Barclays are entitled to hold 
her liable.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman