DRN-2596535
The complaint
Miss I is unhappy that NewDay Ltd approved her for a series of new credit facilities, which 
she believes were unaffordable for her at that time.
What happened
In November 2019, Miss I applied for four different credit cards with four different retailers. 
However, all four of these differently branded credit cards were administered by NewDay. 
And subsequently, all four of Miss Is credit applications were approved.
In July 2020, Miss I made a complaint to NewDay. She felt that the four credit cards that 
NewDay had approved her for werent affordable for her at the time of her application, and 
that this should have been apparent to NewDay if they had undertaken sufficient checks into 
her financial circumstances at that time.
NewDay looked at Miss Is complaint. They felt that they had undertaken reasonable checks 
into Miss Is financial circumstances at the time of the applications, and that there was 
nothing in these checks that caused them to think that the credit cards would be 
unaffordable for Miss I at that time. So, they didnt uphold Miss Is complaint.
Miss I wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they agreed that the checks 
that NewDay had undertaken were reasonable and hadnt suggested that the credit cards 
might be unaffordable for Miss I at the time of the applications. So, they didnt uphold the 
complaint either.
Miss I remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss I believes that NewDay didnt undertaken reasonable and proportionate checks into her 
financial circumstances at the time of the applications, and that if they had it would have 
been apparent to them that these credit cards werent affordable to her at that time.
It's for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to someone and, if so, how much and 
on what terms. What we'd expect is that a lender carries out reasonable and proportionate 
checks as to the affordability of any credit provided. I think that B has done that here.  
When processing the applications, NewDay took details of Miss Is income and reviewed her 
credit file. There was a level of unsecured debt on Miss Is credit file at that time, but this in 
and of itself doesnt mean that further credit would be unaffordable for Miss I. Where a credit 
applicant has exiting debt, what this service would expect is that the business would check 
to see whether the applicant was managing their existing debt responsibly. 
And Miss Is credit file at the time of the applications appears to confirm that she was 
managing her existing debt responsibly, because there was no record of any arrears, 
payment arrangements, recent defaults, or other information that might have suggested 
otherwise.
Miss I might believe that the checks that NewDay undertook didnt go far enough here, and 
that further checks were warranted. But the requirement is for a business to perform 
proportionate checks  that is to say, the level of checks that a business is expected to 
undertake is dependent level of credit being applied for, with larger amounts of credit 
mandating a more thorough level of checking. Considering the relatively low amounts of 
credit being applied here, Im satisfied that additional checks, beyond those which NewDay 
conducted, werent necessary in this instance.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that NewDay didnt undertake a proportionate level of 
checks here, and it appears from those checks that it was reasonable for NewDay to 
conclude that the new lines of credit would be affordable for Miss I at those times.
I understand that Miss I has recently cleared the balance on a number of these credit lines 
and that NewDay have closed the accounts on the basis that they arent affordable for her. 
Miss I has stated that because her financial circumstances havent significantly changed 
since she applied for the credit cards, this demonstrates that the credit cards also werent 
affordable for her at the time of her application.
I can understand why Miss I might think this, but it doesnt follow that NewDay recognising 
that the accounts are unaffordable for Miss I now means that they should have recognised 
that the accounts were unaffordable for Miss I previously. I say this because NewDay have 
additional information available to them now that they didnt have at the time of the credit 
card applications, including Miss Is complaint to NewDay where she explains that these 
credit cards arent affordable for her.
So, it remains the case that I feel that, with the information that they had available to them at 
the time of the credit card applications, it was reasonable for NewDay to consider that the 
credit cards would be affordable for Miss I at that time. And Im satisfied that NewDay did 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to gather that information.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Miss I was wanting, but it follows from this that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking NewDay to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman