DRN-3876846
The complaint
Ms P and Mr P complain they received poor service from Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
Ms P and Mr P wanted to downgrade their existing current account to a different account so 
they could benefit from its rewards offers. They called Halifax in April 2022 to do that. But the 
account application failed ID checks. They were told to visit a branch to complete the 
application. But when they visited the branch, it wasnt possible to complete a partially 
completed application. A new application had to be completed from the start again.
Ms P and Mr P complained. Firstly, they said they shouldve been able to complete the 
application on the phone, but that failed. They said the ID checks should be done upfront. 
When Mr P called Halifax initially, he said was given the impression that there would be no 
problem in completing the application on the phone. 
And then, they said they were misadvised when they were told to go to the branch to 
complete the application. They also complained that they wanted a call back from Halifaxs 
call handler, but she refused to do that.
 Halifax discussed the first complaint with Mr P on the phone. Halifax accepted that theyd 
given the wrong impression on the first phone call. They paid compensation of £50 plus call 
costs and transport costs of £19. 
On the second complaint, Halifax said Ms P and Mr P had been given the wrong information 
on the phone - as partly completed applications couldnt be finished in branch. Ms P and Mr 
P therefore had a wasted trip to the branch, which they accepted was inconvenient. Halifax 
offered compensation of £75 plus parking costs of £10. 
Ms P and Mr P didnt accept this offer and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
said she thought that Halifaxs total compensation (paid and offered) of £154 was fair for 
what happened. The way the call on 15 June 2022 ended was unfortunate but even if Halifax 
had called back, it was clear the offer wasnt going to be increased. She concluded that 
Halifax didnt need to do anymore.
Ms P and Mr P asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint: so, it has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there were several errors by Halifax  which must have led to increasing levels 
of frustration on the part of Ms P and Mr P. I understand that.
On the first complaint  Ms P and Mr P were advised they could complete the application on 
the phone. And that then failed because there was an ID problem. Halifax dont have that 
call available to listen to. But they accepted that in all probability they did say that to Ms P 
and Mr P, and paid compensation of £69. That was accepted by Ms and Mr P. But Halifax 
then said the application could be completed in a branch. So, Ms P and Mr P went to a 
branch  but it turned out it couldnt be completed. That was because Halifaxs processes 
are that a part completed application cannot be so done. So  they misadvised Ms P and Mr 
P here  as they had a wasted journey to the branch. Halifax have offered a further £85 
compensation (being £75 plus parking £10).
Ms P and Mr P have also complained that Halifaxs call handler wouldnt call them back at a 
stated time to discuss the offer of compensation of £85. I listened to the call. Mr P said he 
wanted a call back to further discuss the offer. Halifax call handler said that wouldnt be 
needed as the offer wasnt going to change. She said shed considered the complaint, and 
that was Halifaxs offer. Mr P had to end the call as he was busy. But I dont think that what 
Halifaxs complaint handler did was unreasonable - it was clear the offer was Halifaxs final 
one.
Beyond that, Im restricted on the extent to which I can look at this aspect of the complaint, 
as we dont have the power to look into complaint handling at firms. Thats because this 
service is governed by strict rules about what complaints we can, and cannot, look at. These 
are covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This defines a complaint as 
being about a financial product or service. So, complaints specifically about a businesss 
complaint handling or processes arent included. Ms P and Mr Ps concerns here are 
specifically about how Halifax handled a complaint, so  this aspect of their complaint isnt 
one we can look at any further.
Halifax havent disputed that they made two errors  both of which led to distress and 
inconvenience for Ms P and Mr P. So, this complaint comes down to how much 
compensation is appropriate here. I view the issues made by Halifax here are one complaint 
 as they are about dealing with the account application. Our service has set down some 
criteria for deciding on compensation. We say an award up to £300 might be suitable where 
there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable 
effort to sort out. I think what happened fits this definition  as there were two or three calls 
and an unnecessary visit to the branch. 
Mr P has said the compensation should be up to £750. Ive considered that  but for that, we 
say that might be fair where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused considerable 
distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot 
of extra effort to sort out. I accept that the matter of compensation is a subjective one  but 
having thought about this, particularly in the light of other awards our service has made, I 
think that the compensation of £125 (plus related expenses of £29) is right here. 
Halifax have confirmed that the outstanding offer of £85 (£75 plus parking £10) is still 
available, and if Ms P and Mr P wish to accept this, they should get in touch with Halifax to 
arrange payment.
My final decision
Halifax has already made an offer to pay £85 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Halifax should pay £85.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman