DRN-4508359
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a used car that he paid for (in part) using credit provided
by Lloyds Bank PLC and hes unhappy with the response he got from Lloyds when he raised
a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
What happened
Mr K purchased this car in August 2022 when it was about 6 months old with just over 2,300
miles on the clock. The car cost around £25,000 and Mr K part-exchanged a vehicle worth
nearly £19,000 and paid the balance using his Lloyds credit card. Mr K reported faults with 
the car shortly after collection. These were repaired by the supplying dealer but another 
issue appeared within weeks  there were multiple error sounds and messages on the 
instrument cluster about faults with the travel and emergency assist functions.
The dealer said the problem was a known fault with steering wheel sensors. No repair was
available and the travel and emergency assist functions were de-activated temporarily, in
December 2022, until the manufacturer found a resolution. Mr K says these functions were
of particular importance to him, as he drives on the motorway often, and he asked to reject
the car and receive a refund in early January 2023. When the seller didnt agree, Mr K raised
a claim with Lloyds under section 75.
Lloyds asked for additional evidence, in the form of an independent experts report. Mr K
didnt think this was fair - he says the manufacturer accepted the car was faulty and Lloyds
knew this  but he paid £360 for an engineer to check the car and sent Lloyds the inspection
report in February 2023. He was unhappy that Lloyds asked the seller to comment and
refunded the cost of the report to his credit card - he would have preferred it to go straight
into his bank account. He thinks Lloyds delayed things deliberately and should be liable if he 
incurred additional bank charges or other expenses.
In April 2023 the seller agreed that Mr K could reject the car and offered to refund the full
purchase price. Lloyds considered this was a reasonable resolution and declined the section
75 claim. Mr K doesnt think thats fair. He feels Lloyds delayed things to discourage him
and/or avoid liability for as long possible and it was wrong to give the seller three weeks to
comment on the evidence. He declared the car SORN and says he had to borrow money
(from friends and on two other credit cards) to buy a replacement vehicle. He wants Lloyds
to refund his additional expenses including credit card interest, road tax and insurance and
pay compensation.
Lloyds says it didnt delay things, the approach it took is standard practice with this sort of
claim and it wasnt unreasonable to allow the seller to comment and try to agree a suitable
remedy. Lloyds froze interest on Mr Ks credit card account for six months while it
investigated. It also reimbursed the cost of the experts report and paid Mr K £40 (as a
goodwill gesture) for not paying the refund into his preferred account. Lloyds considers Mr K
received a fair remedy overall as the seller refunded the full purchase price without a
deduction for the use he had of the car.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it was
unreasonable for Lloyds to ask Mr K for additional evidence and contact the seller about this.
Shes satisfied that Lloyds froze interest on his credit card while it investigated and there was
no unnecessary delay - Mr K raised his claim with Lloyds in January and the matter was
resolved by the end of April 2023. She wasnt persuaded that she could fairly hold Lloyds
responsible for costs arising from Mr Ks decision to purchase a new car when he did. And,
given the seller didnt make a deduction for usage, she thought the resolution offered was
fair and it wasnt unreasonable for Lloyds to rely on this and decline his section 75 claim.
Mr K remained unhappy. In summary, he said a deduction for use here would have been
about £344 whereas his losses (road tax, car insurance and interest on two third party credit
cards) amounted to nearly £750. He feels redress was delayed unreasonably and refers to
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) section 20(15) which provides "A refund under this
section must be given without undue delay, and in any event within 14 days beginning with
the day on which the trader agrees that the consumer is entitled to a refund".
He goes on to say he and his family experienced a great deal of distress, inconvenience and
anxiety as a result of what happened and he suffered weight loss, an inability to sleep and a
rapid decline in overall health, among other things. He thinks all of this could have been
reduced or avoided if Lloyds had accepted liability sooner. He asked for an ombudsman to
review the matter and comment on Lloyds business practices - in particular, if it is
acceptable that Lloyds took 25 days to contact the seller and failed to accept liability when
he supplied the experts report. He wants Lloyds to compensate him for financial losses and
pay compensation totalling nearly £3,000.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I thought it was fair to give 
the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond if they wanted to before I 
made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 5 December 2023. Ive set out 
below (in italics) what I decided provisionally (and why)  this forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that Mr K has gone to some trouble to provide very detailed submissions here. Im
going to have to summarise things in my decision - the rules of our service allow me to do
this. But I want to assure the parties, if I dont mention every single point thats been raised,
its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and
sent to us. Im going to concentrate however on what I consider is key to reaching a fair and
reasonable outcome.
Mr K brings his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because he paid part of the
purchase price for this car using credit provided by Lloyds. I note that Mr K would like me to
comment on Lloyds business practices generally and I should explain that Im not a
regulator. I dont have the power to tell any financial business how to operate on a day to
day basis or punish a business or any individual. My job here is to look at all of the
information available about this particular complaint, without taking sides, and consider the
merits on a fair and reasonable basis.
I realise Mr K feels strongly about everything thats happened. And I want to be clear at the
outset, that Im looking at whether Lloyds has taken appropriate steps in relation to hissection 75 complaint in this decision - its not within my remit to require third parties, such as
the seller, to do anything.
Broadly speaking section 75 provides that the borrower under a credit agreement has an
equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services in certain circumstances. Im required
to take taking relevant law (among other things) into account when I make my decision
(although I dont apply the law, only a court can do that). I think section 75 is relevant here
so Ive gone on to consider whether theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Im satisfied that this car was required to be of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. There
seems to be no dispute now that it was of unsatisfactory quality and there was a breach of
contract. So, the remaining issue for me to decide is whether Mr K has received fair redress
in all the circumstances.
As far as I can see the car has been collected already at no additional cost to Mr K and the
seller refunded the purchase price in full. Lloyds considers this was a reasonable resolution
but Mr K doesnt agree. He thinks Lloyds delayed things unnecessarily increasing his
distress and inconvenience and hes out of pocket - as he incurred interest on two other
credit cards which he used to buy a replacement vehicle and he had to pay for road tax and
insurance on this car while it was off the road.
time taken
Im satisfied that Lloyds responded to Mr Ks section 75 claim within a reasonable time. Im
not persuaded it delayed things unnecessarily. And I dont think it was unfair to ask for
independent evidence that the car was faulty in this situation. Not every fault found will
entitle a consumer to reject goods - repair or replacement may be an appropriate remedy in
some circumstances.
I appreciate Mr K may say the manufacturer had already accepted there were faults present
and the seller had the chance to repair, but I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to
ask the seller to comment. Its likely the seller would have possessed additional information
about relevant issues that Lloyds would need in order to be satisfied there was a
misrepresentation or breach of contract that it may be liable for under section 75 and what
might be an appropriate remedy. It follows, I cant fairly criticise Lloyds for the time taken to
investigate or the decision to involve the seller when it did.
financial losses
Im satisfied that Lloyds has reimbursed the cost of the experts report that Mr K paid for and
I think that was fair. I understand Lloyds also paid Mr K £40 compensation for crediting this
refund to his credit card and not his current account - which seems more than reasonable.
Under the CRA, where a consumer is entitled to reject a car on quality grounds they may be
entitled to a refund but this amount can be reduced to reflect the use the consumer had of a
vehicle. According to the experts report, Mr K was able to drive this car for over 4,300 miles
in 133 days. Mr K says a fair deduction for this use works out at about £350. Im not sure
how he calculated this amount exactly but it seems to equate to about 12p a mile, which
doesnt seem unreasonable.
To recap then, in terms of the resolution provided, the seller took the car back and refunded
the purchase price in full waiving any deduction for use - which Mr K accepts was worth
about £350. Lloyds also froze interest on his account for a time, reimbursed £360 for the
experts report and paid Mr K an additional £40 compensation.
Mr K says he incurred additional costs here - essentially because this car was off the road -including insurance, road tax and interest on other credit cards when he purchased a
replacement vehicle. So Ive given some thought to whether those costs were reasonably
incurred as a direct result of the breach of contract. It looks as if the independent expert 
considered this car was in above average condition when he inspected. I accept diagnostic 
checks revealed multiple electrical fault codes stored and he found travel assist functions, 
such as cruise control and lane change sensors, werent working. As I understand it, these 
were turned off by the dealer to prevent recurring error sounds and messages.
Mr K told Lloyds that the issues were with the travel assist function, the infotainment system
and the emergency call function. He says he chose the car with this specific functionality in
mind so I appreciate it was probably very frustrating for him when it didnt work. I accept his
use of the vehicle might have been impaired somewhat as a result. But Ive seen nothing to
suggest that the car was unsafe or unroadworthy (or couldnt be driven for some other
reason). I can see why Mr K may have chosen to buy a replacement vehicle when he did.
On the current evidence however, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable to
hold Lloyds responsible for any associated costs including insurance, road tax or credit to
buy a replacement vehicle.
compensation
I think its likely Mr K incurred some foreseeable distress and inconvenience as a result of
being supplied with a faulty car. Among other things he had to contact several parties to try
and resolve things and instruct an expert to provide a report. Id be minded to find £250 was
reasonable compensation for this.
I appreciate it must have been upsetting for Mr K when his family were affected by what
happened - but Im unable to require Lloyds to compensate third parties, such as family
members, in this situation. Mr K also reports experiencing significant health issues and Im
very sorry to hear about that. Ive got nothing to show that this resulted directly from the
supply of this faulty car however and Im unable to reasonably hold Lloyds responsible.
Working out whats fair in these circumstances isnt a scientific exercise. Taking everything
Ive seen so far into account, Im inclined to agree with the investigator that the resolution
provided for breach of contract here seems fair overall. And Im not persuaded that I can
reasonably require Lloyds to do anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to let me have any further comments or new evidence by 20 December
2023. I said Id review all the evidence available after that and make my final decision.
Mr K has provided a detailed response. In summary, he says:-
I referred in my provisional decision to the expert finding the car was in above 
average condition when the expert was referring to its body, interior fluid levels, and 
mechanical aspects at the start of the inspection and multiple error codes were 
identified later which mean the car cant be above average; 
Lloyds should have contacted the seller much sooner and the failure to do so caused 
unnecessary delay;
the car wasnt safe to drive as he couldnt demist the windscreen and windows 
because heating, ventilation and air conditioning are operated through the 
infotainment screen which was randomly crashing and distracting random errors 
continued to appear - aside from those disabled by the dealer;he needed a reliable car daily for school runs and the like and public transport was 
not feasible so he had no option but to purchase another car and use credit to do so; 
the seller agreed to collect the car on the 22 March 2023 which amounts to agreeing 
that he was entitled to a refund but he didnt receive this until the 28 April - which is 
contrary to section 20(15) of the CRA. 
As I explained at the start of my provisional decision Im not determining the outcome of Mr 
Ks section 75 claim here - only a court can do that. Im looking instead at whether Lloyds 
provided a fair and reasonable response to Mr Ks complaint (which is about Lloyds 
response to his section 75 claim) - taking into account any relevant obligations that arise out 
of the credit agreement, including those under section 75. Its not within my remit to require 
the seller to do anything. And, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I remain of 
the view Lloyds did not delay things unnecessarily. 
My reference to the cars condition was intended to clarify that the independent expert 
considered it was above average - aside from the multiple error codes stored. I dont think 
every stored fault necessarily means a vehicle is in poor condition  these may include fault 
codes which were not cleared previously. For the avoidance of any doubt however, I accept 
this car had faults present and it was of unsatisfactory quality. 
Im not persuaded that random error messages and the lack of an electrical demister means 
the car was unsafe or unroadworthy. The demist function isnt part of an MOT and, whilst I 
accept these issues would have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr K, I cant fairly find 
they mean he had no option but to purchase a replacement vehicle when he did. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but nothing that hes said or sent to us has persuaded me to 
change my mind. I remain of the view there arent sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to 
uphold this complaint. I realise Mr K will probably feel let down by my decision, but he isnt 
obliged to accept what Ive said - in which case it remains open to him to pursue the matter 
by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman