DRN-3313430
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice he was given by bdhSterling Limited to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr D and his wife were considering emigrating to Australia. Towards the end of 2014, Mrs T 
went to a Queensland Government Seminar to find out about what was required in order to 
emigrate. Whilst at the seminar, Mrs D met a representative of bdhSterling who told her that 
it was possible to transfer Mr Ds DB scheme and that there was a deadline that existed (of 
5 April 2015) for doing so. The deadline related to the governments decision to prohibit the 
transfer of benefits from the specific DB scheme Mr D was a member of to a personal 
pension arrangement.
On 11 December 2014, Mrs D emailed the bdhSterling representative in response to his 
request to provide more information about Mr Ds DB scheme. She stated My husband was 
in the army and has a pension, which hopefully, with your help wed be able to transfer 
before the April deadline. We havent started the visa application process so wont have 
anywhere in Australia to transfer it to, but to ensure we beat the deadline will need to 
transfer it to a UK holding until the visas come through. Most of the communication going 
forward was with Mrs D on the basis she normally dealt with the financial matters, but no 
face-to-face meetings took place.
After some delay, information gathering documents were completed in March 2015 including 
a fact find where Mr D recorded his attitude to risk as Conservative, or level two on the 
rising scale of one to six. The fact find noted the departure/arrival date of the move was 
unknown as the visa application had not yet been submitted.
On 11 March 2015, prior to the 5 April 2015 deadline, bdhSterling approached the DB 
scheme with an information request. The DB scheme provider confirmed the transfer of 
benefits would be honoured as the application was received prior to the deadline and The 
offer will remain open and valid for 12 months from the date of calculation (the calculation 
date was 17 June 2015).
On 11 May 2015, a questionnaire was completed over the phone with bdhSterling and 
Mr Ds attitude to risk profile was noted as having increased slightly, and was recorded as 
just within the Moderately Conservative banding (or level three on the rising scale of one to 
six).
A Pension Transfer Analysis Report was sent to Mr D in June 2015 which, together with the 
fact find document, noted the following:
Mr D was aged 47, married, in good health and intended to retire at age 65.
He had no financially dependent children but had three grown up children from a 
previous relationship, none of whom had emigrated or were planning to emigrate.
He was a self-employed builder/carpenter earning around £38,000 a year.
He had no assets other than the DB scheme.
He had liabilities of £29,200.
Mr Ds attitude to risk was just within the Moderately Conservative banding, or just 
within level three on the rising scale of one to six.
No plans had yet been made to move to Australia and the visa application/s hadnt 
yet been lodged.
Mr D had 8 years of service in the DB scheme. At scheme normal retirement date 
(age 60) this would provide an estimated income of £3,688 a year with the option to 
take tax free cash and a reduced income. Spousal benefits were also available.
The DB scheme could be transferred with a transfer value of £42,692.58 (guaranteed 
for three months).
High priorities were recorded as:
Tax efficiency both pre and post retirement.
Maximising potential death benefits.
Access to lump sums in retirement and the ability to adjust the pension income.
Eliminating short- and long-term currency risk now that you are migrating .
The potential to grow pension benefits in excess of inflation.
Low priorities were recorded as:
The guaranteed benefits within the DB scheme.
The ability to control or influence investment strategy.
A TVAS report showed an investment growth, or critical yield, of 10.89% per year, was 
required in order to match the benefits the DB scheme pension wouldve provided at 
retirement assuming the full tax-free lump sum entitlement was taken at age 60. The critical 
yield increased to 11.86% if no tax-free lump sum was taken.
The report went on to confirm:
Please note that we would neither recommend a transfer of your benefits from any UK
Defined Benefit (Final Salary) Scheme nor an onward transfer to an Australian QROPS 
unless it is your clear intention to become and remain a permanent Australian resident i.e. 
live, work and spend your retirement in Australia.
bdhSterling recommended Mr D transfer his DB scheme to a UK based SIPP and then 
onwards later to an Australian Superannuation Fund, (the QROPS). Some of the benefits of 
transferring were reported as:
The tax efficiency of drawing benefits from an Australian Superannuation Fund.
The control and flexibility offered by being in charge of the retirement funds and the 
estate planning benefits.
As a UK based interim pension could be set up relatively quickly, the transfer value 
quoted by DB scheme could be secured.
The report recommended the funds were initially transferred to a UK based SIPP within a 
wrap provided by T, with V appointed as the Discretionary Fund Managers (DFM). The 
associated charges were declared as:
Initial adviser charge - 3% on the value of pension funds
Ongoing annual management fee - 0.5% per yearT annual portfolio charges - 0.5% per year
V DFM charge - 0.25% (plus VAT)
Wrap charges - £20 a quarter
The application to transfer was completed and the funds were transferred on 
9 December 2015. On 11 December 2015, the funds were invested in Vs Balanced 
Portfolio. 
Mr and Mrs D never emigrated to Australia and in May 2020, through a combination of the 
media and seeking additional clarification from an independent financial adviser, Mr D raised 
a complaint with bdhSterling about the suitability of the advice to transfer out of the DB 
scheme. 
Mr D complained that he wasnt made aware by bdhSterling of the guaranteed benefits he 
was giving up by transferring his DB scheme and that he felt rushed into making a decision 
by the transfer deadline. He said that the critical yield was unattainable given his attitude to 
risk (ATR). And he said that he had no experience in managing investments so wasnt 
interested in having control over his pension fund in retirement. Mr D said that he had no 
dependents except for his wife so he didnt the death benefits offered by the SIPP rather his 
wife would need the spouses benefit of the DB scheme if he predeceased her. Finally he 
said his pension was now worth far less than it would have been if hed never transferred it 
and it was his only major pension, which he wouldnt have transferred if he fully understood 
what he was giving up. 
bdhSterling looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the pension transfer 
(suitability) report it sent Mr D had explained the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme and 
that one of the disadvantages of transferring would be the loss of these benefits. It also said 
it had pointed out that the pension income would be subject to a currency risk. bdhSterling 
said the critical yield was less relevant given that the scheme was to be moved to Australia 
where the pension system was markedly different to that in the UK. It said the critical yield 
identified in the report was based on the assumption that the pension remained in the UK. 
bdhSterling went on to say that it hadnt placed any undue pressure on Mr D to transfer his 
benefits. It said there were significant advantages to transferring his pension which included 
the favourable tax treatment of pensions in Australia. It said it would normally have waited to 
do the transfer until Mr and Mrs D had settled in Australia but the circumstances were such 
that the option of transferring would not have been available after 5 April 2015 so a decision 
had to be taken. bdhSterling said its recommendation was based on Mr Ds personal 
circumstances and the cross-border tax and legislative regimes in place at the time. It said 
that if there was any indication Mr D wouldnt emigrate then its analysis would have taken a 
very different shape. 
Unhappy with the outcome of bdhSterlings investigation into his complaint, Mr D complained 
to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it was upheld. 
He thought the advice to transfer Mr Ds DB scheme had been unsuitable because the 
transfer wasnt financially viable and wasnt in his best interests. Our investigator thought 
that bdhSterling should pay Mr D compensation so that he was  as far as possible  put 
back in the position he was in before the advice was given.
bdhSterling disagreed with our investigators findings. It said emigration where the currency 
matching of assets and liabilities and/or tax differences outweigh the loss of guaranteed 
income was one of the situations the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) noted as 
being suitable for a transfer. And it said the FCA was of the opinion that recommendations 
shouldnt be based solely on the critical yield because a clients personal circumstances 
were also very important. It said it was very difficult to establish a single annual rate of return for an Australian Superannuation Scheme to match the benefits of Mr Ds existing DB 
scheme because the nature of the benefits and tax rules in each jurisdiction were so 
different. Finally it said that the reasonable assumptions it used had shown it was in Mr Ds 
best interests to transfer. It said there was enough evidence to support the fact Mr and 
Mrs D were serious about moving to Australia and the upcoming deadline for making the 
transfer was crucial to the advice it gave. It said if it hadnt recommended the transfer and 
the move to Australia had gone ahead, it could have been liable for not assisting its client in 
making a move that was in his best interests.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of bdhSterlings 
actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, bdhSterling 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ds best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was quoted as 10.89% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 4.4% 
per year for 12 years to retirement in this case. And the critical yield is the minimum 
investment return needed to match  not exceed  the existing benefits that were available 
to Mr D under his DB scheme. A higher rate of investment return would have needed to have 
been achieved to improve on Mr Ds existing benefits. There is little advantage to 
transferring a pension just to match the benefits that already exist.  
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Overall I think Mr D was likely to receive 
benefits from the SIPP of a materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk.
Ive considered bdhSterlings comments that the critical yield was less relevant given that the 
scheme was to be moved to Australia where the pension system was markedly different to 
that in the UK. Whilst the TVAS compared the DB scheme with an Australian 
Superannuation Scheme, it provided no such comparison between the DB scheme benefits 
and that offered by the SIPP. 
I can see that bdhSterlings advice was based on Mr D emigrating to Australia. However, at 
the time of the advice any emigration was by no means a certainty. Mrs D had undertaken a 
skills assessment and an English language test but no other plans to move to Australia 
neither had yet been made nor any visa applications lodged. Mrs D told our investigator that 
at the time of the advice they were still in the process of obtaining information about what 
was needed to make the move, such as whether both of them could apply, and if so what 
tests or assessments were needed beforehand. Mrs D also said that no accommodation, 
jobs or bank accounts had been lined up. So I cant agree with bdhSterling that the critical 
yield was less relevant given the scheme was to be moved to Australia. It wasnt known, at 
the time the advice was given, whether that move would go ahead. It was indeed a very real 
possibility that it wouldnt so consequently the critical yield  based as it was on the 
assumption the pension remained in the UK  was very relevant. But bdhSterlings advice 
contained no analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the SIPP compared to the DB 
scheme if Mr D didnt emigrate. So I cant see that Mr D had the information he needed in 
order to make an informed decision here. 
Given Mr Ds ATR was moderately conservative I cant see how investment growth of 
10.89% a year was achievable. In order to obtain a return greater than 10.89% each year, 
Mr D would need to have taken a higher level of risk. But he had no other assets available to 
him, didnt own his own home, nor did he have any previous investment knowledge or 
experience. So I dont consider him to have had any real capacity for loss, or the necessary 
ATR needed in order to seek the potentially higher returns that were necessary to achieve the critical yield identified. And based on the target and realised returns the DFM cited as 
likely when invested in a balanced portfolio Mr Ds SIPP stood little chance of coming close 
to achieving the critical yield necessary.
Given his lack of previous investment experience, its highly likely Mr D didnt fully 
understand the extent to which a transfer out of his DB scheme would expose his retirement 
plans to such risk. Indeed I can see that in his complaint he has said as much. 
Nor can I agree that Mr D was willing to accept the higher level of risk required to make the 
transfer worthwhile. So instead of recommending he transfer to a SIPP where the benefits 
he could attain were dependent on investment performance, with no guarantees, bdhSterling 
should have advised Mr D to remain in his DB scheme.
I can see that an expected long-term average return in line with Mr Ds ATR based on 
Australian growth rate assumptions was also provided  this was 7.5% per year. Whilst I 
acknowledge it may be difficult to provide a single annual rate of return that would be 
required by an Australian Superannuation Scheme to match the benefits provided by a UK 
DB scheme, the inescapable fact remains that Mr D was advised to exchange guarantees 
and certainty in retirement for significant investment risk if he wanted to try, at the very 
minimum, to match his DB benefits. I dont consider that the level of risk he needed to take 
was appropriate for someone in his circumstances
And I can see that bdhSterling thought the same as it said in its suitability report that it 
would neither recommend a transfer of your benefits from any UK Defined Benefit (Final 
Salary) Scheme . nor an onward transfer to an Australian QROPS unless it is your clear 
intention to become and remain a permanent Australian resident. If that was indeed 
bdhSterlings position I dont think it did enough here to make sure Mr and Mrs D were doing 
just that. And that is despite noting on the fact-find what the situation currently was, namely 
that there was no departure date and that no visa application had been lodged. 
That being the case I am unclear why bdhSterling didnt follow its own stated position of 
declining to recommend the transfer. Because at the time the advice to transfer was given it 
wasnt possible to say with any certainty that Mr Ds clear intention was to become and 
remain a permanent Australian resident. As bdhSterling itself has said, if there was any 
indication Mr D wouldnt emigrate then its analysis would have taken a very different shape; 
unfortunately for bdhSterling I think the evidence Ive referred to here indicates Mr D was by 
no means certain to emigrate and, as such, its analysis should indeed have taken a very 
different shape.
Nor can I reasonably ignore the various charges involved (as listed above) in the transfer 
recommendation that will have impacted Mr Ds retirement plans. Such charges clearly 
impact the fund value and any potential growth of a pension plan which is already dependent 
on market conditions for growth. The applicable charges unnecessarily erode the fund value 
whereas Mr Ds DB scheme was subject to no such charges. 
So, it follows that I think financial viability alone meant a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt in Mr Ds best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
giving transfer advice; there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D. Indeed the TVAS notes that maximisation of death benefits (both pre and post retirement) for his beneficiaries was a 
key objective for Mr D. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, 
and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal 
pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr D about what was best for his 
retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I 
dont think bdhSterling explored to what extent Mr D was prepared to accept a lower 
retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. And I 
can see that in the TVAS bdhSterling only compared the DB scheme death benefits with 
those of an Australian Superannuation Scheme. So Mr D had no means of comparing what 
the effect the transfer to a SIPP would have on his death benefits. And, as Ive said above, 
at the time the advice was given it was by no means certain that Mr D would emigrate. But I 
cant see that bdhSterling provided Mr D with any analysis of what would happen if he 
transferred his DB scheme and didnt subsequently emigrate. So there was little information 
for Mr D to be able to compare what he was giving with what hed get from the SIPP in the 
event of his death. 
Mr D was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been 
useful to his spouse if Mr D predeceased her. I dont think bdhSterling made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr D. Whilst the Australian Superannuation Scheme appears by 
comparison to have favourable death benefits, Mr D would need to be a member in order to 
benefit from them. And at the time the advice was given, it was uncertain he ever would be. 
The spouses pension under the DB scheme however, was guaranteed and it escalated  it 
was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in the 
SIPP is. And as the analysis in the suitability report shows, the fund would have run out by 
the time Mr D reached the age of 68.  In any event, bdhSterling should not have encouraged 
Mr D to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits in a plan that he was by no means 
certain to ever join over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think 
bdhSterling shouldve instead explored the option of life insurance. But I cant see that it did. 
Mr D was aged 47 at the time of the advice and was a non-smoker in good health. But the 
option of life cover wasnt explored by bdhSterling.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control and flexibility
I think Mr Ds stated desire for control over his pension benefits and the flexibility to alter 
income streams to suit his circumstances was overstated. Mr D was not an experienced 
investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in, or the knowledge to, be able to manage 
his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr D  it 
was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Use of DFM 
bdhSterling recommended that Mr D use a DFM to manage his pension funds. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr D, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr D should have been advised to remain in his DB scheme and so the DFM would not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable 
advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, favourable tax treatment and potential for higher death 
benefits on offer in the Australian Superannuation Scheme would have sounded like 
attractive features to Mr D. But before he could benefit from anything that scheme offered, 
Mr D had to first emigrate and transfer out of his DB scheme to a UK based personal 
pension or SIPP. And I dont think bdhSterling thoroughly assessed Mr Ds actual 
circumstances enough before advising him to transfer. At the time of the advice, Mr Ds 
emigration was far from certain to go ahead. I appreciate there was a deadline in order to 
secure a transfer away from Mr Ds DB scheme, but in order to have advised him fully, 
bdhSterling should have discussed with him what not emigrating would mean if he 
transferred from his DB scheme. But I cant see that it did this. And bdhSterling wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted  namely to take his pension with 
him in the event his fledgling plan to emigrate materialised. bdhSterlings role was to really 
understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring and not emigrating, Mr D was 
very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And even had the emigration proceeded as 
first envisaged, the transfer from the DB scheme attracted the risk of currency fluctuations 
and the investment growth identified as being necessary in the Australian Superannuation 
Scheme in order to match Mr Ds DB scheme benefits was also unlikely to be attained given 
Mr Ds ATR. In my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer 
and outweigh this.  Mr D shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to 
beat a deadline in case he ultimately ended up emigrating. 
So, I think bdhSterling shouldve advised Mr D to remain in his DB scheme even if that had 
meant missing the deadline for transferring his benefits.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against 
bdhSterlings advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against bdhSterlings advice. I say this 
because Mr D was an inexperienced investor with a low to medium attitude to risk and this 
pension accounted for the majority of Mr Ds retirement provision. Mr D would lose the 
opportunity to transfer his DB scheme if he didnt move ahead with it then. But I think, if 
bdhSterling had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, given his plans to emigrate werent concrete, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think bdhSterling should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I think that Mr D has been caused by some trouble and upset as a result of the advice he 
received from bdhSterling for which I think it should pay him compensation of £300.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for bdhSterlings unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D 
would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
bdhSterling must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his schemes normal retirement age of 60, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
bdhSterling may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ds contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date bdhSterling receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes bdhSterling to pay 
Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect bdhSterling to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require bdhSterling Limited to 
pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000 and to pay Mr D compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset he was caused. 
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
bdhSterling Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
bdhSterling Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
bdhSterling Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on bdhSterling Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman