DRN-3786152
The complaint
Mr C complains that PRA Group (UK) Limited (PRA) is reporting a default on his credit file 
which is also being reported by the original creditor. This makes it appear that Mr C has two 
defaults instead of one.
What happened
PRA bought an account in Mr Cs name that was in default but has since been settled in full. 
The account was originally held by a business I will refer to as B. Mr C is unhappy that PRA 
is reporting a default on his credit file while B is also reporting a default. 
Mr C wants PRA or B to remove the default. Or for PRA to make it clear that its entry relates 
to the same default reported by B. Mr C says that having two defaults on his credit file is 
impacting his ability to apply for further credit. 
PRA told Mr C that it was responsible for reporting information about the debt to his credit 
file. And that PRA was reporting the same information as B.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. She explained that its 
correct that the same account cant be defaulted twice. But that in Mr Cs case, B and PRA 
are reporting defaults on the same account, rather than two separate defaults.
The investigator didnt think that PRAs entry made it appear this was a new debt as the start 
date and balance is the same as Bs entry. She thought that a lender would be aware how 
defaults are reported once a debt is sold. The investigator pointed out that there were other 
defaults on Mr Cs credit file so PRAs entry wouldnt have been the only thing affecting any 
credit application he might wish to make.
The investigator was satisfied that PRA had already corrected the balance on Mr Cs credit 
file to mirror the one reported by B, so she didnt think it needed to do more in response to 
the complaint. 
Mr C disagrees with the investigators recommendation. He says that in one of his credit 
files, the debts in the name of B and PRA have separate reference numbers. And that 
although the date and balances are the same, the default is being reported twice. Mr C says 
the two accounts do not appear to be linked.
Mr C refers to another complaint that he made to this service in which the investigator told 
him that his credit report showed hed taken out two further lines of credit that were still 
active  one with PRA and another with B. 
Mr C says he raised his complaint against both PRA and B. He says when he contacted B, it 
told him to contact PRA. So, Mr C thinks that PRA should at least contact B to ask it to 
amend his credit file to show that it sold the debt and link Bs account with PRA.
Mr C has recently provided this service with an email from the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO). It says that PRA didnt record information falsely on file. It is B that would be 
responsible.... 
Mr C wants us to help action the removal of the default in Bs name from one of his credit 
files. Mr C confirms that this has already been done on his other credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I can appreciate Mr Cs frustration with being stuck in the middle of B and PRA through no 
fault of his own. But my decision is solely concerned with the actions of PRA and not B. This 
is because complaints are set up and investigated against individual businesses. I do 
however want to reassure Mr C that Ive looked at the complaint file involving B to make sure 
Ive not missed any relevant information for the purpose of deciding his complaint against 
PRA.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that B assigned the account to PRA after it had 
already been defaulted. PRA, as the new owner of the account, has a duty to report accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies. So, like the ICO, I think the reporting of the 
default by PRA is correct. 
Although Mr C has given this service copies and screenshots of his credit files which show 
separate defaults in the name of B and PRA, this doesnt change the fact that PRA isnt at 
fault in terms of reporting the default. I also wouldnt have expected PRA to try and make 
changes to an entry that B is responsible for. So even though Mr C has given us evidence 
that his credit score improved after one of the credit reference agencies removed Bs entry, I 
cant require PRA to compensate Mr C for this as PRA didnt do anything wrong with its 
reporting. 
I can see that Mr C has referred to another complaint that he brought to this service involving 
a different lender. He points out that in that complaint, an investigator said there were two 
separate lines of credit on his credit file involving B and PRA. The other complaint focussed 
on irresponsible lending by a different lender not on whether two entries on Mr Cs credit file 
related to the same debt. But as I dont find PRA was wrong to report the default on the 
account it bought, I cant blame PRA for any duplication of entries that may or may not have 
occurred. So, it doesnt change the outcome of my decision involving PRA. Im sorry if this 
comes as a disappointment to Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Gemma BowenOmbudsman