DRN-2910447
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice he received from Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) to transfer 
the benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a Personal Pension Policy 
(PPP). Mr J says that he has lost out financially as a result. And that the payments made as 
part of the industry wide Pension Review were insufficient to properly compensate him for 
his loss. 
When the advice to transfer to the PPP was given, it was under another providers name. 
But Ill only refer to Phoenix in my decision.
What happened
In 1994 Mr J was advised to transfer the benefits from his OPS to a PPP with Phoenix. This 
advice was reviewed as part of the industry-wide Pension Review. 
In October 2000 Mr J was informed about the outcome of this review. He was told he 
wouldve been better off if hed stayed in his OPS. He was initially offered £5,982 to make up 
for the shortfall in benefits. But this was increased to £8,958.95. The increased amount took 
into account bonuses Mr J wouldve been entitled to since the original offer had been made. 
It also took into account future charges on the PPP. 
In November 2000 Mr J spoke with Phoenix about its offer. He signed the acceptance form 
on 26 January 2001. A further £371.72 was paid into Mr Js PPP on 28 October 2002, 
following a review of how the redress had been calculated.
On 2 September 2020 Mr J complained to Phoenix. He told this service that just before the 
complaint hed joined an online group of former colleagues. Through that group he said hed 
become aware of compensation payments much greater than his. 
In its final response letter of 4 September 2020, Phoenix didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It 
said it had already reviewed the sale of his PPP. And had increased his pension by the 
appropriate amount following that review. So it said it wasnt required to consider this again. 
Unhappy with Phoenixs response, Mr J brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think Phoenix had done anything wrong. He didnt think hed seen any 
evidence to suggest that the Pension Review calculations hadnt been carried out in line with 
the Regulators guidance at the time. So he didnt think it would be fair to ask Phoenix to 
revisit the calculation.
Mr J disagreed with our investigator. He felt that part of his complaint had been overlooked. 
He said that some of his colleagues had received compensation payments for the incorrect 
advice, not just for the reduced value of their pensions. He believed the law had changed 
since the Pension Review had been carried out. He felt he was worse off despite the 
Pension Review redress. Mr J asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, focusing on 
the original advice to start a PPP. He also asked this service to consider what his options 
had been at the time of the review, noting that he felt his only option was to accept. He felt 
the advice hed been given to open his PPP had been deliberately false. So this complaint 
has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sympathetic to Mr Js position and Ive carefully considered the points hes made. But 
having done so, Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Suitability of advice to transfer OPS benefits into PPP
Mr J has asked this service to look at the overall suitability of the advice he received to set 
up his PPP initially. He feels that he was given deliberate misinformation to move the 
benefits from his OPS into the PPP. He feels that this has cost him the opportunity of an 
early retirement.
Unfortunately I must confirm what our investigator told Mr J. That is, its not in dispute that 
Phoenix gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his OPS benefits into a PPP. The Pension 
Review was set up to correct the impact of that unsuitable advice. So the compensation that 
Phoenix paid in August 2002 was calculated to put everything right. As Mr J accepted the 
outcome of the Pension Review, it would only be fair and reasonable for me to ask Phoenix 
to revisit the calculations if I had evidence that theyd been based on the wrong information. 
Ive not found any evidence that the calculations were based on the wrong information or 
were carried out incorrectly. 
I understand that Mr J will be disappointed with my findings. But Im satisfied that Phoenix 
took reasonable steps to correct the mis-sale of the PPP when it carried out the 2000 
Pension Review in relation to the advice to transfer the benefits from the OPS into the PPP. 
Ill now look at whether Mr Js options around the Pension Review were clearly explained. 
What other options did Mr J have?
Mr J has asked this service to consider what other options he had at the time of the Pension 
Review. He said he: was given no advice on what to do or what my alternatives were.
While I do have sympathy with Mr J given the complexity of the redress calculations, Im 
persuaded that Phoenix took reasonable steps to help Mr J consider his options properly.
In its letter of 5 October 2000, which contained its initial Pension Review offer, Phoenix said: 
If you do not wish to accept our offer, please contact us as soon as possible to discuss your 
concerns. Please bear in mind that our calculations, and method of redress are specified by 
the PIA. If we cannot reach a satisfactory conclusion, you can ask the PIA Ombudsman for 
help. This is free, though the Ombudsman would normally expect you to discuss your 
concerns with us first.
That letter also said: You may want to take independent advice concerning our review, 
though that would be at your own expense. And: If you would like to discuss our offer, or 
any other aspect of this review, we will be happy to help. You can call us free of charge. 
I also note that Mr J did call Phoenix in November 2000, before he accepted its offer. The 
call notes state: Reason for Call: Incoming Telephone Conversation with Investor - Investor 
had queries regarding offer letter, the actual offer, the original OPS from which investor 
transferred, what would happen if investor rejected offer, why was the Ombudsman's number on the letter? Investor also wanted some background on the review and some 
reassurance.
Outcome of Call: I dealt with investor's queries concerning offer letter and other areas. 
Investor informed me he would return acceptance ASAP. I gave investor my name and 
extension for future queries.
After Mr J had called it, Phoenix wrote to him at the end of November 2000 and said: We 
would like to thank you for your recent telephone call with regards to the offer letter, but as 
we have not yet received your acceptance form, we wondered whether there was any part of 
the letter requiring further clarification. If this is the case and you wish to discuss the matter, 
you may telephone us free of charge
So Im satisfied that Mr J did consider what his options were at the time. And that he was 
aware that he could ask Phoenix more questions, or refer any issues to this services 
predecessor, before he accepted the Pension Review offer. And Im not persuaded that 
Phoenix did anything wrong here.
Adequacy of the Pension Review 
It is not in dispute that the advice Mr J received in 1994 to transfer the benefits from his OPS 
into a PPP was unsuitable. The letter sent to Mr J in October 2000 following the review of 
that advice, as part of the Pension Review, set out the outcome of that review. And showed 
that he had suffered a loss as a result of the decision to transfer. The redress was calculated 
allowing for the lost OPS benefits and an allowance for future charges, amongst other 
things. 
The review was carried out in accordance with the detailed requirements laid down by the 
Personal Investment Authority.
Mr J said that the redress he received wasnt sufficient to put him back in the position he 
would now be in, but for the unsuitable advice he received in 1994. 
The Pension Review was designed to be a once and for all process which was based on 
what the Regulator at the time considered to be a fair methodology, using reasonable 
assumptions for future growth rates of both the pension policy, and where appropriate, 
augmentation policy funds. 
Its very unfortunate that the expected growth rates havent come to fruition, and I have a 
great deal of sympathy with Mr Js position here. But this isnt a reason to undertake the 
Pension Review once again. It was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a 
business such as Phoenix was able to provide redress for instances of mis-selling, but also 
so that it knew that it wouldnt have additional unknown liabilities in the future.
This was important for the stability of the industry and consumer confidence in financial 
services more generally. But it was also designed to reassure consumers such as Mr J that 
the error had been recognised and addressed at that point in time  as Ive said above, 
using what were considered to be reasonable assumptions - without the need to revisit the 
matter many years later. Some businesses did offer a guarantee to match the benefits at 
retirement rather than undertake a redress calculation, but the more common  and still 
acceptable  method of resolving the matter was either by reinstatement or paying an 
augmentation sum. 
In the methodology businesses were required to use there were a number of assumptions. 
The most notable of which was the expected growth rate of the pension funds to produce the required benefits at retirement. Unfortunately, these projected growth rates havent been 
borne out by reality. The low interest rate environment from 2008/09 onwards resulted in the 
cost of annuities rising significantly. This means that, for many people, their pension fund at 
retirement isnt sufficient to reproduce the lost scheme benefits. 
I acknowledge that Mr J believes the law has changed since his Pension Review took place. 
But Im satisfied that it hasnt. The position of this service is that, as the Pension Review was 
designed as a one-off process, we wouldnt seek to undo the agreement between Mr J and 
Phoenix  even though the pension benefits hell receive may well be lower than expected.
I appreciate that Mr J feels the redress calculation carried out in 2000 mustve been 
incorrect. He said he thinks his pension would be double its current value if hed remained in 
the OPS he was advised to transfer out of. But as I explained above this service takes the 
view that the Pension Review was designed to be a one-off process so we wouldnt seek to 
undo the agreement between Mr J and Phoenix  even though the pension benefits hell 
receive may well be lower than expected. I also acknowledge that former colleagues of Mr J 
may have been awarded higher compensation that he has. But, as Ive seen no evidence of 
errors in the Pension Review calculations Phoenix carried out, I cant say that other higher 
awards to people with different circumstances proves anything. 
In the absence of anything to show or suggest that the data Phoenix relied on when carrying 
out the redress calculation in 2000 was incorrect, I cant reasonably find that the calculation 
was incorrect. 
However, if Mr J thinks that incorrect assumptions were used, or the basis of the calculation 
was faulty for some other reason, its open to him to demonstrate why and, if he deemed it 
necessary, commission a rerun of the calculation. But I do also need to explain that, even if 
errors were proved, if we were satisfied that Phoenix had undertaken the calculation in good 
faith, but that minor errors had been made, we would simply require it to rerun the 
calculation using the correct information, and the same methodology and key assumptions 
(including growth) which existed in 2000. 
In closing, I repeat that Im sympathetic to Mr Js position, but for the reasons given I cant 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman