DRN-3316685
The complaint
Mr F complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund him funds that were 
transferred to the wrong party. 
What happened
What Mr F says
Mr F says he wanted to send funds to his account abroad. He tried to make a card payment 
to Wise, but it was declined by his bank multiple times. Hes uncertain why as no reason was 
given and the funds were available. As he was experiencing problems, Mr F called Wise. He 
says that a Wise agent said it could be done manually instead and generated a contact in 
the Wise app for him to send money to. The contact was in the name of someone Ill refer to 
as A. Mr F says he was advised to create a dummy payment of £1 and he later also set up a 
dummy payment of £10.
Mr F says he was then told by the Wise agent to transfer £10,000 from his UK bank account 
to the Wise account details for A but to use his own name. Wise would then forward funds to 
his account abroad. Mr F says he did as advised and was told the transaction had been 
processed and a receipt was generated showing the payment to A. The next day funds 
hadnt arrived in Mr Fs bank account abroad and so he called Wise. Mr F says Wise told 
him he had set up a payment to A and its systems wouldnt allow its agent to take the steps I 
have set out above.
Mr F says Wise has told him the payment was sent to the payee Mr F set up and the 
beneficiary hasnt agreed to return it. Mr F disagrees and says the Wise agent committed 
fraud in setting up A as the payee and then deleted A from his account or was incompetent.
What Wise say
Wise has provided a recording of a call on 29 July 2019 when Mr F discussed the difficulties 
he was experiencing when trying to send his funds abroad. It says Mr F chose the intended 
recipient (A) himself during the call. As part of the payment process Wise say Mr F was 
provided with a list of recipients from his contact list that had a Wise account and from this 
list Mr F chose A. And its agent told Mr F on multiple occasions that he was transferring 
funds to A, but Mr F went ahead with the payment. So Wise says the payment was correctly 
made to the recipient Mr F chose and set up. It has approached the recipient, but she hasnt 
agreed to return the funds. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt uphold it. She was satisfied that Mr F 
set A up as a contact from his list and there was no indication Wise instructed him to choose 
A. She also felt that Mr F understood that he could choose different recipients as he chose 
himself for the second £10 test payment. After listening to the call recording the investigator 
was satisfied Wise told Mr F he was paying A on three occasions and so she felt it had done 
enough. Finally, the investigator provided a screenshot of a summary screen Mr F would 
have seen that showed he was paying A. In relation to attempts to recover Mr Fs funds, the 
investigator noted that the recipient used the funds within minutes of reaching the account 
and before Mr F reported that he hadnt received the funds. Wise contacted the recipient but 
was unsuccessful in returning Mr Fs funds. 
Mr F didnt accept what the investigator said and asked for a final decision, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This whole complaint revolves around a conversation Mr F had with a Wise agent on 29 July 
2019. Wise has been able to provide a recording of this call which has helped my 
assessment of Mr Fs complaint. I understand the recording has been shared with Mr F.
Having listened to the call I dont agree with Mr Fs recollection of events. I also dont 
consider Wise has acted unreasonably and will explain why by going through what was said 
in the call. 
Mr F explained that hed tried to send money to his account abroad a few days before and it 
was declined. Mr F said his bank told him the issue was with Wise, but the Wise agent 
confirmed this wasnt the case and that for some reason Mr Fs bank had refused the 
transaction. The agent was able to see that Mr F had tried to make a payment on a few 
occasions. He went on to suggest that Mr F could do a manual transfer instead and talked 
him through the process by setting up a dummy transfer. The agent explained that he would 
show Mr F how to make the payment, but he didnt need to actually pay it. 
The Wise agent told Mr F what to click on to start the payment process and told him to 
choose a recipient and get to the payment page. When he reached the payment page the 
agent told Mr F he should choose the manual bank transfer option rather than the option to 
pay by card. Mr F was then advised to set up the transfer from his UK bank account. Mr F 
set up a dummy payment of £1 to A and also a £10 payment when he chose himself as the 
recipient. 
Mr F wished to send a £10,000 payment to his bank account abroad and explained he 
needed the money quickly. He completed the same steps as previously while the Wise agent 
stayed on the line and provided assistance. The Wise agent said to Mr F,
But you set this up to [A], not to yourself  just for your information. 
Mr F responded by saying, OK. 
This wasnt the only time the Wise agent told Mr F he was sending funds to A. When 
discussing the payment, the Wise agent said,
You send it to us and we send it out to, erm, [A].
And, 
And also, youre not sending it to yourself, you know that youre sending it to [A].
Again, Mr F responded by saying, OK. 
Im persuaded that Mr F completed all the steps to transfer £10,000 himself and that the 
Wise agent didnt generate the contact as Mr F says he did. The Wise agent told Mr F to 
choose the recipient and Im satisfied Mr F did so. Wise has confirmed that no recipients 
have been deleted from Mr Fs account and that the recipient of Mr Fs funds was chosen 
from his contact list. Mr F also received confirmation that he was paying A.
Im also satisfied the Wise agent made it clear to Mr F that he wasnt paying himself but 
instead was sending funds to A. Mr F appears to have been in rush to send funds and not to 
have taken on board what the agent told him. Whilst I realise the distressing consequences 
for Mr F, I cant blame Wise for this. 
Wise is required to take reasonable steps to recover funds that have been mistakenly 
applied to an account. Ive seen evidence that demonstrates Wise contacted A promptly (on 30 July 2019) and asked for the money to be returned or, if A thought the credit wasnt made 
in error, to confirm they were the correct recipient. Wise didnt receive a reply so also called 
A. In the circumstances, I consider Wise acted reasonably in trying to recover Mr Fs funds. 
Wise has no power to force A to return the funds.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of Mr Fs loss, I cant reasonably conclude Wise is 
responsible.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman