DRN-3994868
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G purchased a single trip travel insurance policy in December 2021. The policy provided 
cover for various pre-departure and post-departure risks, with the period of cover being 20 
December 2021 to 2 January 2022. The policy was sold via an intermediary, who Ill call S. 
And the insurer on the policy was Great Lakes.
Mr G has explained that he was due to travel abroad on 21 December 2021  and the 
country he would be travelling to required him to evidence that he had a negative Covid-19 
test in the 72 hours before landing at the destination. With this in mind, Mr G took a PCR test 
on 20 December 2021. The results of this were returned on 21 December 2021, and noted 
the test result as inconclusive. 
Because the above test didnt show a negative test result, Mr G has explained he wasnt 
able to travel abroad as planned on the trip hed paid for. Mr G therefore made a claim under 
his travel insurance policy for his losses in relation to this.
Great Lakes considered Mr Gs claim, and declined it. In summary, Great Lakes said that 
Mr Gs policy only covered his losses if he was able to show a positive Covid-19 test 
prevented him for travelling. Great Lakes said Mr G didnt have a positive test result, but 
instead in inconclusive one. 
Mr G didnt feel this was fair. He referred to an email he had with the company that had 
carried out the PCR testing. In the email, the testing company said an inconclusive result 
should be considered as a positive test. Mr G considered this meant he did in fact have a 
positive test result, and his insurance policy covered him for having to cancel his trip.
Great Lakes position on the matter didnt change. As Mr G remained dissatisfied he referred 
his complaint to this service, for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint, and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
the policy terms did require a positive test result  and instead Mr Gs result was 
inconclusive. So, the terms of the policy hadnt been met, and it was fair and reaosnable for 
Great Lakes to decline the claim.
Mr G didnt agree, and noted he wanted an ombudsman to consider his case.
As Mr G didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Great Lakes to do anything differently. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Great Lakes acted in line with these requirements, when it 
declined to settle Mr Gs claim. 
Ive also considered Mr Gs policy documentation. And I can see that the policy does provide 
cover for the cancellation of a trip, in certain, listed, circumstances. In order for the policy to 
cover the claim, the loss needs to have been due to one of these listed circumstances. If it 
isnt, then the policy wont respond.
Ive looked at the circumstances listed in the cancellation section of cover. And Im aware the 
only relevant circumstance, is that the policy will provide cover if:
you, a close relative or anyone you are planning to travel with or stay with receives, in 
writing, a positive test result for Coronavirus within 14 days of your trip commencing
Given the above, Mr G would need to have shown a positive test result, in order for his loss 
to be covered by the policy. Great Lakes has said Mr G didnt evidence this. So, Ive thought 
about whether it acted fairly in saying this. And I think it did act fairly.
Ive seen a copy of the document which provided Mr G with his test result. This said Mr Gs 
test result was inconclusive. It then said:
Your coronavirus test result is unclear. This means its not possible to say if you had the 
virus when the test was done.
You must take another test or self-isolate for 10 days from the day you took the test.
Given the above, Im aware the evidence Mr G provided to Great Lakes didnt show he had a 
positive test for Covid-19, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. The above result 
clearly explains it wasnt possible to tell whether Mr G had Covid-19. And hed need to take 
another test to tell this. As Mr G didnt have a positive test its reasonable for Great Lakes to 
decline the claim. The policy is clear it will only accept a positive result.
Mr G has said that the inconclusive test result he received should be presumed as a positive 
test result. Hes referred to an email from the company he took the test through  who said 
that. I dont dispute the testing company said that. But I dont think it means Great Lakes 
should change its claims decision, or that it did anything wrong. From what we know of 
testing, there could be a number of reasons a test returns as inconclusive. Mr G could have 
tested again, And had he done so, he may have tested negative, and been able to travel.  
And whilst it may be safest to presume the test as positive, that isnt what the terms of 
Mr Gs insurance require. Mr G needed to show Great Lakes a categorically positive result. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the 
policy terms. My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything more in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman