DRN-3286274
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handed his claim 
under his motor policy following an accident which wasnt his fault. 
What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident on 12 July 2021. The other driver was also insured by 
Admiral. 
Initially Mr W said Admiral tried to get him to claim from his policy instead of the other 
drivers which he believed would adversely affect his insurance record. However, his claim 
was dealt with on the other drivers policy. 
When the claim was settled Mr W complained about how it was handled. Admiral upheld 
several of his complaint points and offered him £150 compensation.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so he brought his complaint to us. The investigator explained 
that because many of his complaint issues concerned Admirals handling of his claim under 
the other drivers policy, we couldnt look at those. We could only look at the initial contact 
between Admiral and Mr W. On that basis the investigator didnt think Admiral needed to do 
anything more.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I understand and appreciate Mr W will be very disappointed. But as the investigator 
explained this service cannot investigate any issues raised by Mr W in the processing of his 
claim under the other drivers policy. We are limited to merely dealing with any complaint Mr 
W has about Admirals actions when dealing with him under his own policy. Thats because 
the rules under which this service operates permits us to only deal with complaints where the 
person complaining has a policy or other product from that insurer or financial provider. And 
it is the provisions under that policy which is being used and the consumer has a complaint 
about that. 
So just a like a consumer couldnt complain about someone elses bank or credit card or 
mortgage, neither can a consumer complain about someone elses policy. A consumer can 
only bring their complaint to us if the complaint concerns their own policy or account. 
Here I do understand the matter is made more complicated because the other driver in this 
accident was also insured by Admiral. But essentially Mr Ws claim to have his car repaired 
by Admiral, didnt come from the provisions of his own policy, it came from the provisions of 
the other drivers policy whereby that other drivers insurer (also Admiral) was repairing his 
car under the duty of liability to other drivers when the policyholder (the other driver) is at 
fault for causing an accident. Sadly that means what I can look into in Mr Ws complaint is 
only his first calls with Admiral because thereafter once the other driver and that drivers  
insurer (also Admiral) had admitted fault for causing the accident, all Admirals dealings with 
Mr W was under the other drivers policy and not his own. 
So, under our rules that means Mr W isnt deemed to be an eligible complainant, from the 
time Admiral started to deal with his claim under the other drivers policy. These rules are 
called DISP rules and can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys website. I am 
not permitted by our rules to consider complaints when the complainant isnt deemed 
eligible. Under DISP 2.7 an eligible complainant is defined as being a customer of the 
business complained about; and in terms of insurance it must be a person for whose benefit 
a contract of insurance was taken out or was intended to be taken out. Mr W is complaining 
about the issues which happened when his car was being repaired under the other drivers 
policy, so the policy that was responding to his claim, wasnt belonging to him, it was 
belonging to the other driver only. 
In its final response letter to Mr W Admiral detailed out Mr Ws complaint as concerning the 
following:
The other driver denying liability causing a delay with Mr Ws claim under that other 
drivers policy. That doesnt concern Mr Ws policy with Admiral so I cant look at this.
That he wasnt offered a courtesy car quickly enough because the other driver was 
trying to access dash cam footage. The provision of the courtesy car was being 
made under the other drivers policy not Mr Ws so I cant look at this point either.
That Admiral was defending the other driver, but thats Admiral duty under its policy 
with the other driver and doesnt concern Mr Ws policy, so I cant look at this.
Mr W missed a day of work and had loss of earnings. That is part of Mr Ws claim 
against the other drivers policy and not a claim made under Mr Ws own policy. So, I 
cant look at this.
That Admiral promised to call him to discuss his claim for the stress caused. Again, 
that is a claim under the other drivers policy, not Mr Ws so I cant look at that. 
That he felt he was being tricked into claiming off his policy initially. This I can 
investigate, and I will do so below.
That he didnt receive updates from Admiral or the repairing garage regarding the 
repair of his car. This only concerns his claim under the other drivers policy so I cant 
look at this.
That he had issues concerning the downgrading of the hire car supplied. The hire car 
was supplied to Mr W under the other drivers policy so I cant look at that.
That he didnt felt listened to when he made his complaint, however that concerns his 
claim under the other drivers policy so I cant look at that.
So, turning to aspects of Mr Ws complaint that I can deal with, this amounts to his first 
contacts with Admiral on both 12 July and 16 July as its clear then he was making this 
contact to Admiral as a policyholder. Mr W complained that in this call on 12 July, Admirals 
adviser did clarify that as the other driver hadnt admitted fault by that stage, Mr W could 
start his claim off as a claim on his policy. Mr W didnt want to do this, but I cant see that the 
adviser didnt anything wrong as Mr Ws options were properly detailed to him. To include 
that the claim would be set up as non-fault and that he could use his legal cover to pursue 
any losses. It was explained to Mr W that his no claim discount was protected and quite rightly however the adviser couldnt confirm what effect the claim might have on Mr Ws 
future premium. Mr W then said he didnt mind which way his claim was set up as long it 
didnt affect his renewal premium.
I cant see that the adviser did anything wrong here, given the other driver had yet to confirm 
they were at fault for causing the accident. His options were clearly set out and Mr W was 
able to set out which he preferred on that basis.
The compensation Admiral paid to Mr W concerned the elements of the complaint it upheld, 
none of which concerns his initial contact. Given I dont consider Admiral did anything wrong 
as regards Mr Ws initial complaint, I dont think any further compensation is warranted.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman