DRN-4043407
The complaint
Mr P complains that Family Equity Plan Limited trading as OneFamily (OneFamily)
incorrectly rejected his Individual Savings Account (ISA) transfer due to a bonus rate that
applied.
What happened
My initial conclusions were set out in my provisional decision issued on 6 February 2023. In 
my provisional decision I explained how I intended to resolve the complaint. I said:
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail
again here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different opinion to our Investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence available, Im not convinced it was reasonable for OneFamily to 
assume Mr P didnt want to go ahead with the transfer hed requested. Im satisfied it 
should have at least enquired further about his transfer prior to making any decision.
I say this because the application check box which is the crux of this complaint 
related to fixed term periods and notice periods but said nothing about bonus rates. I 
dont think it was reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ps transfer to assume he 
didnt want to proceed without contacting Mr P first.
If OneFamily had queried the transfer with Mr P Im satisfied it would have gone 
ahead as planned  as demonstrated by his reapplication. I therefore feel OneFamily 
is ultimately responsible for the transfer not proceeding on the first attempt. Im 
satisfied OneFamily need to do more to put things right.
I know Mr P feels strongly that his loss concerns a lack of opportunity to purchase a 
very specific fund at the right point of time. Hed like a flat sum paid to him which 
constitutes his perceived loss, and he estimates this to be roughly 6% of the value of 
his ISA at the time.
Ive thought about this carefully. And my considerations must include the fact that Mr 
P partly mitigated the impact of the delay by purchasing the fund using alternative 
capital outside of his ISA.
I agree hes therefore lost out on having this particular investment within his ISA  but 
hes also then chosen to purchase entirely different funds once the transfer 
completed. Therefore, the same tax efficient benefit is instead now applied to those 
investments. Whilst I appreciate the reasons for his decision, I cant disregard the 
fact that Mr P did not choose to buy the same fund when the transfer completed.
I dont think it would be fair to include the original fund into any financial loss 
considerations  in part because Mr P didnt ultimately purchase the original fund and 
now has other investments in his ISA.
Instead I believe a fair and pragmatic solution would be to focus on how the eventual 
purchases he made within his ISA were likely disadvantaged by the delays.
Putting things right
Im satisfied Mr P was caused inconvenience by the delay in completing his initial transfer. I
think it would have been upsetting for Mr P to discover his intended purchases had risen in
unit cost during the period, and it wouldve been a further inconvenience to have to reapply
for his transfer and switch his purchasing plans. I think a payment of £200 is fair and
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused him.
Im also satisfied that OneFamilys error may have caused Mr P financial loss. OneFamily
should put Mr P in the position hed have been in had the transfer submitted on 21 April
2021 been accepted. I cant be sure when the transfer would have completed but I can see
the successful transfer took nine days to complete so Ive applied this timescale. So, I think
its reasonable to say the cash from Mr Ps ISA wouldve been received and applied to his
new Stocks and Shares ISA on 30 April 2021.
Ive also assumed similar timescales for how long it took for Mr P to invest the funds in his
new ISA  he purchased his new funds six days after completion of the transfer, so I think
its reasonable to say that had everything gone right Mr P wouldve likely purchased his
chosen funds on 6 May 2021.
With this in mind, OneFamily should calculate the following:
-Compare what units Mr P could have bought in his new ISA on 6 May 2021 to what 
he purchased with his funds on 1 June 2021
-Arrange with his current ISA provider for any units he may have lost out on to be 
purchased and placed within his new ISA. If Mr P has used up his ISA allowance for 
the year OneFamily should consult with HMRC to ensure Mr P doesnt lose out and 
explore applying the additional units by way of restitution.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and intend to direct Family
Equity Plan Limited trading as OneFamily to carry out the instructions above.
I asked for both parties to provide me with any further submissions they had before I issued 
my decision. Both parties provided further comments. Ive carefully considered the further 
representations made on both sides.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
OneFamily has reiterated that it felt the rejection of the transfer was correct. It highlighted 
that Mr P had never held a fixed term product in his online ISA so its assumption was a fair 
one. I acknowledge the point being made  but it doesnt change the underlying instruction 
submitted by Mr P. Im satisfied this contradictory information highlighted by OneFamily is 
further reason it should have contacted Mr P before taking action.
OneFamily also felt Mr P could have contacted it sooner after the transfer failed to prevent 
significant delays. It questioned whether his new provider made him aware of the rejection in 
a timely manner. I dont think this consideration changes my decision as Im satisfied that if OneFamily had queried the transfer with Mr P it wouldve completed without any subsequent 
delays or issues taking place.
Mr P has disagreed with how Ive suggested things should be put right. Id like to thank Mr P 
for providing the level of detail he has regarding his trading history and experience. Hes 
provided information that demonstrates hes a proficient and experienced trader who has 
spread purchases and timed trades in the past. 
Mr P has contended that he would have better timed his purchase and shortly after sold for a 
profit to make more gains than the compensation Im suggesting recognises. Hes looked 
back at the period and highlighted the dates he would have made his purchases and sales. 
Mr P also disagrees that the original fund should not be included in the calculations of 
financial loss  as hes confident he wouldve purchased it in place of the funds he did 
eventually buy.
Ive considered all these points; however, Im not persuaded that the suggestion Mr P has 
made matches with the actual history of the account once he gained access to his funds.   
Mr P has previously acknowledged he purchased funds as soon as he was aware he had 
access and purchased all the funds in question on the same day rather than spreading 
purchases. From the evidence Ive seen, the funds he ended up purchasing were also not 
sold within a short period of time.
Again, I appreciate that Mr P did not purchase the fund he originally wanted to  and had to 
switch around his purchase decisions. But this is acknowledged in the recommendation Ive 
made for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered. Ultimately Mr P did not purchase the 
fund in question within his ISA when he had the opportunity and purchased an alternative 
group of funds. In short, Im not persuaded that Mr Ps suggestion for how to put things right 
is the fairest option as it is too speculative and does still in my opinion rely on the benefit of 
hindsight for the specific timing of trades.
So, for the reasons explained I cant agree that the compensation Ive recommended should 
change. Im not satisfied that there is enough evidence available to persuade me that what 
Mr P has suggested is what would have most likely happened. And any calculation made 
must accept that Mr P ultimately did not actually end up purchasing the fund he originally set 
out to purchase in his ISA. In this case I must go with the most pragmatic approach, which 
Im satisfied Ive already detailed previously in my provisional decision. 
I do understand this will be a disappointment for Mr P, but Im not persuaded that I should 
alter the recommendations already made in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
As my decision remains unchanged, OneFamily should calculate the following:
- Compare what units Mr P could have bought in his new ISA on 6 May 2021 to what 
he purchased with his funds on 1 June 2021
- Arrange with his current ISA provider for any units he may have lost out on to be 
purchased and placed within his new ISA. If Mr P has used up his ISA allowance for 
the year OneFamily should consult with HMRC to ensure Mr P doesnt lose out and 
explore applying the additional units by way of restitution.
- Pay £200 to Mr P as recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
transfer rejection.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Family Equity Plan Limited 
trading as OneFamily to carry out the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman