DRN-3997489
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about the way Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) has dealt with a claim 
she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
What happened
Around September 2015, Mrs W entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system 
(the system) from a supplier. She paid for the system using a BOS credit card in multiple 
payments  the last payment being made on 9 October 2015.  My understanding is that 
these amounts were paid off by February 2016 at the latest. 
Mrs W wrote to BOS in August 2022 to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of
s.75 is to provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The
creditor (BOS) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier  subject to certain considerations being met.
Mrs Ws claim explained that the system had been misrepresented to her. She says she had
been told that the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments shed receive for electricity generated and
exported to the grid would cover off the cost of the system after a couple of years, making 
the system entirely self-funding.
BOS responded to say it had no liability, since the claim had been made outside of the
time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980. In this case, BOS said the claim had been
made more than six years after the alleged misrepresentation had taken place.
Unhappy with BOSs response, Mrs W raised a complaint and referred the matter
to this Service to look into. One of our investigators reviewed things but concluded that
BOS had not acted unfairly by rejecting Mrs Ws s.75 claim. In summary, our investigator 
said that Mrs Ws claim against the supplier of the system was made outside of the 
timescales set out in the Limitation Act. As BOS (as the credit provider) is liable to the same 
extent as the supplier, our investigator agreed it had acted reasonably when saying the like 
claim against it was made too late.
Mrs W disagreed. She said she didnt realise shed been mis-sold the system until a few
years later and so she felt shed complained in time.
Since our investigator could not resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint Im considering whether BOS has treated Mrs W fairly in its
response to her s.75 claim. There are a number of things Ive taken account of when
reaching my decision, including the law, rules and regulations, good practice and the facts of
Mrs Ws complaint. In this decision Ill refer to those that I consider to be most central
to my conclusions.
Mrs Ws complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. As Ive explained above, s.75 sets out 
why a claim can be made against BOS, and it can be held responsible for a purchase Mrs W 
made using her credit card. Im satisfied in this instance that the debtor-creditor-supplier 
chain hadnt been broken and theres an appropriate relationship between the parties for 
BOS to consider a s.75 claim.
As the reason BOS gave for declining Mrs Ws claim was that it was made outside of
the relevant time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. The Limitation Act 
is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of action that a party 
can pursue. 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Did Mrs W bring a claim within six years?
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result
of the misrepresentation.
Mrs Ws s.75 claim is largely that the benefits associated with the system were 
misrepresented and so she entered a contract which wasnt the value for
money that she expected. Mrs W says that, were it not for the misrepresentation about the
potential benefits covering the cost of the system within a couple of years, then she wouldnt 
have entered the contract to purchase the system at all.
So, Mrs Ws financial loss occurred when she contracted to pay for the system using
a credit card  the last payment being made in October 2015. She had six years from that 
date to make her claim, which is October 2021. 
Mrs W raised her claim with BOS in August 2022. This is more than six years from
when the damage occurred, and her cause of action accrued. So, the claim was not made in 
time, and neither the supplier nor BOS would have any liability, even if there was a 
misrepresentation. 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. 
Ive considered this section because the basis of Mrs Ws claim against BOS is under s.75 
and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of parliament). 
But I dont think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in the Limitation 
Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a suppliers misrepresentation or 
breach of contract  effectively making BOS step into the shoes of the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract  and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. So, the claim was 
still not made in time. 
Are there any grounds to extend the six-year time limit? Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, the Act 
also provides for a second period in which a claim can be made. That is, if later than the six-
year period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. Mrs W says she 
didnt realise the representations were untrue until a few years after the sale. 
Mrs W says she sent BOS an email on 30 January 2023, and shes submitted a copy. This 
says: 
So, after a couple of years, I checked what I was receiving, which was nothing as I was 
expecting. When you take into account my monthly energy bills, I worked out that I would 
need to keep the panels for 22 years, until I saw any kind of profit, although the solar system
only has a lifespan of 20 years, I will not see any kind of return on investment.
So, I have considered whether the claim period should be extended under the 3-year 
element of the rule, but I dont find the claim period should be extended beyond the original 6 
years. Mrs Ws issues relate to the solar panels, and associated benefits, not being in line 
with what she was led to believe by the salesperson. Mrs W would have been receiving feed 
in tariff payments, electricity meter readings, plus other things that would have alerted her to 
the fact that the solar panels were not producing the benefits Mrs W says she was told 
about. Generally, I think this should have been apparent around a year after taking out the 
solar panels. And definitely within two years as Mrs W appears to accept. As Mrs W should 
have therefore reasonably had cause to raise her claim within 2 years of taking out the 
panels, this would not extend the 6- year part of the Limitations Act further. So as our 
investigator explained, I dont think she was entitled to longer than six years to make her 
claim. 
Claim under s.140 Consumer Credit Act
While Mrs W doesnt appear to have actually raised a claim under s.140, for completeness, 
like our investigator, I have also considered whether or not Mrs W would have a successful 
claim under s.140 of the Consumer Credit Act, which relates to Unfair Relationships.
Like s.75, there are however time limits for a claim to be considered under s.140 and Mrs W 
would have had 6 years from the end of the credit relationship with BOS to bring her claim. 
The credit with which Mrs W paid for the solar panels was paid off by February 2016. So, the 
relationship ended when Mrs W paid off the amounts she borrowed on her credit card to 
purchase the solar panels. Mrs W would therefore have 6 years from this date (so until 
February 2022) to bring a claim under s.140. But as set out already, no claim was submitted 
until August 2022, which is more than 6 years later.
Summary
Having considered the specific circumstances here, it is likely that any claim in court that 
Mrs W would have against the solar panel provider would be considered to have been made 
out of time, in relation to the alleged misrepresentation. And consequently therefore, any like 
claim Mrs W may have had against BOS would also be considered out of time. Having 
considered the implications of the Limitations Act 1980 alongside the Consumer Credit Act, I 
dont consider BOS acted unreasonably when deciding Mrs Ws claim for misrepresentation 
had been raised too late.
I appreciate Mrs W will remain unhappy with what I have set out here. I have noted what she 
has said about our website providing information about other successful claims that our 
service has decided. But those cases are likely to be where the claim was raised within the 
required timescales, which is unfortunately for Mrs W not the case here. And whether Mrs W was actually misled at the time of the sale by the solar panel salesperson is not something I 
have actually considered here as her claim has been raised too late.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman