DRN-3081299
The complaint
Mr K, who is a director of a company that I will refer to as K, has complained that Lloyds 
Bank Plc has acted in a discriminatory manner and provided an unsatisfactory service.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. I've taken into account Mr Ks very detailed submissions about what happened 
at the time. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr, says it has been discriminated against and as a result suffered detriment due to Mr Ks  
race, name and where K trades. Firstly, I would like to highlight that it is not my role to 
decide if the Equality Act 2010 has been breached as thats for a court to decide. However, 
Ive looked at whether Mr K acting on behalf of K was treated fairly with the actions Lloyds 
took by placing a block on the account and pursuing K for the information it requested.
I have considered the information Mr K has provided regarding Lloyds asking for information 
from K in 2019. And while I havent specifically commented on its actions in regard to this, it 
has formed part of my considerations. Lloyds have explained that it asked K to provide 
information in August 2020 as part of its usual process for ongoing Know Your business/ 
Customer (OKYB/C). Having reviewed this letter I am satisfised it explains why the 
information is required, the date it needs to be provided by (30 October 2020) and what will 
happen if the information isnt provided.
I have also reviewed Lloyds policies and procedures in relation to OKYB/C. Having done so, 
I cant see any evidence to suggest that Lloyds departed from its usual process in relation to 
the information it asked K to provide. I appreciate that Mr K thinks the information requested 
was unnecessary, but Lloyds makes it clear why it requires the information and I cant see 
any evidence to suggest it treated K unfairly in regards to the information it asked it to 
provide. 
However, I have considered the fact that Lloyds provided a deadline of 30 October 2020 for 
M to provide the information it asked for. But on 6 October 2020 Lloyds sent a further letter 
to K again asking it to provide the same information and outlining it hadnt heard from him, 
despite the deadline it had provided hadnt passed at that point. As such, I can see why      
this would have caused K a degree of inconvenient, as the deadlines communicated to it 
were not being adhered to. 
In any event Mr K sent the information on behalf of K to Lloyds on 12 October 2020. Mr K 
has provided some evidence to show the information was sent to Lloyds on that date. And I 
have no reason to disbelieve him. However, Lloyds have said it didnt receive the 
information. As such Lloyds tried to contact Mr K via text message and telephone calls. So, 
on 29 October 2020 Mr K re-sent the information he originally sent to Lloyds on 12 October 
2020. 
I appreciate Mr Ks frustration, firstly he was given until 30 October to provide the 
information, did so in good time, then he was chased (prior to the deadline expiring) and 
then it appeared Lloyds hadnt received the information. As I have stated above, I have no 
reason to disbelieve that Mr K sent the information, but it appears Lloyds didnt receive it. 
And while this is frustrating for Mr K, I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the potential failing of 
the postal service, As such, the further pursuance (after the deadline had expired) was 
Lloyds simply ensuing it had the information it required to continue offering K business 
banking services.
Upon receiving the information, Lloyds felt further information was required and issued a 
letter to K on 5 November 2020 with a deadline of 18 November 2020. Having reviewed the 
information requested, I see that it is in line with Lloyds OKYB/C. So, again I cant see that K 
was treated unfairly by Lloyds requesting this information. 
However, a block was put on the account on 13 November 2020. Lloyds have said this is 
due to it not receiving the information it requested. And while I appreciate contact was made 
with Mr K (where he refused to answer security questions, as such the call couldnt be taken 
further) Lloyds did give K until 18 November to submit the information. As such, I dont think 
it acted fairly putting a block on the account 5 days prior to the deadline it set Mr K. I accept 
the block was lifted on 19 November. But I cant see any evidence to suggest the block 
should have been put on sooner than the deadline Lloyds set. As such, I can see why this 
caused K a degree of inconvenience. 
However, I have also gone on to consider, that Lloyds on several occasion provided Mr K 
with a contact number to discuss the information it required from M. And while I understand 
Mr K wasnt happy answering business banking questions from an unknown incoming caller, 
he could have called Lloyds to discuss the matter and enquire what further information was 
required, especially considering he was aware this could impact the operation of K. 
Lloyds havent been able to provide all the calls that took place, which is disappointing. But 
having listened to the calls it has provided; I cant see that Lloyds treated Mr K on behalf of K 
unfairly during the telephone conversations.
I should highlight that when considering distress and inconvenience, I cant consider 
compensation for upset or distress caused to a business. This is because K isnt an 
individual and therefore, I cant consider emotions a person wouldve in this situation. I 
appreciate that Mr K, as the director of the business suffered a degree of upset caused by 
the banks errors but I cant award compensation for this. But I can consider the 
inconvenience caused to K.
Overall, I am satisfised the questions and information Lloyds requested from K was in line 
with its internal policies and procedures. As such, I am satisfied that Lloyds treated K fairly in 
regard to this aspect of the complaint.However, I do accept, that Lloyds did set deadlines for K to adhere to, and on more than one 
occasions, pursued K prior to the deadline expiring and essentially moved the goal posts. 
And while I acknowledge Lloyds explanation, that this was to ensure it received the 
information on time, I can see how it would have caused a degree of inconvenience to K. 
But when considering how to put things right, I can see that Lloyds offered M £50. I have 
considered the impact on K due to Lloyds actions and while I feel an error did occur, I have 
also taken into consideration that K could have mitigated the inconvenient. With that in mind 
I am satisfied the offer Lloyds made was fair. As such, I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc should pay K £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman