DRN-3119523
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building Society failed to protect their account from
fraud and the release of their personal information.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs R visited their local branch to arrange for Mr Rs specimen signature to be 
added to their joint account. During the visit they noticed an unrecognised withdrawal for 
£490 had left their account a few weeks earlier.
It was established that someone had taken the money from a branch several hundred miles
away by impersonating Mr R. The branch were able to show Mr and Mrs R a copy of the
withdrawal slip that had been signed and this didnt match Mr Rs signature.
Mr and Mrs R have made the point that the only reason they were visiting was for Mr R to
provide his specimen signature as he hadnt done this before  so Nationwide didnt have
one on record to compare with the impersonators signature.
Mr and Mrs R were unconvinced that Nationwide could protect their savings and asked for
the remaining balance to be issued as a cheque which they deposited into an account with
another institution.
Nationwide added additional security precautions to their account the following day, and
within a few days, they refunded the money that was stolen from their account. During follow
up calls, it was felt that Mr and Mrs R had suffered an overly long wait to get answers to the
loss of their money and a £75 payment of compensation was added to their account. Mr and
Mrs R didnt accept this and asked for the money to be taken out of their account. 
Nationwide eventually took back the £75 but left the offer open for it to be put back into their
account.
Mr and Mrs R continued to ask about what had happened to their account and how someone
could have taken money without a passbook. They thought the loss was due to an internal
Nationwide fraud. Nationwide investigated the matter and didnt think the loss was due to
internal fraud and that any private information obtained was probably taken from Companies
House, as had happened on other cases. The matter was referred to the police.
Nationwide said it had used a non-token withdrawal process to complete the transaction at
the branch. This meant the person who turned up didnt have a passbook or account card.
This procedure allows members to remove up to £500 by answering a series of random
questions to prove their identity.
Nationwide told us that the fraudster had passed their process, which was why the money
was paid out. The cashier couldnt remember much about the transaction, apart from that
hed followed the correct procedure.
Nationwide told us they didnt block the account at the time because it would have limited the
options for Mr and Mrs R to use their account and as they had taken the remaining balance,
it was no longer an option. Mr and Mrs R refuted this, telling us that at no stage was a block
of their account offered and they spent about two hours at the branch before they took a
cheque, so there was opportunity for this to be discussed.
Mr and Mrs R remained dissatisfied with how Nationwide had handled the loss and were
concerned that personal information had been given to the fraudster. They brought their
complaint to our service for an independent review and it was looked at by one of our
investigators.
Our investigator thought the compensation should have been increased to £125 in total,
because Nationwide could have done more to reassure Mr and Mrs R at the time and
blocked the account. She didnt think there had been a lack of notice about a data loss
because Nationwide only found out about the issue at the same time as Mr and Mrs R.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for an Ombudsman to
review the complaint. They thought Nationwide hadnt been transparent about what actually
happened and that someone had presented a false signature because Mr R hadnt yet
provided a specimen signature.
Nationwide explained that the joint account was set up to allow either signatory to remove
funds and the token was either a passbook or an account card, which is why the alternate
procedure was used.
During the investigation, two calls were provided to us these calls were made to Nationwide
before the branch visit. The investigator listened to them. The caller has some very basic
details about Mr R that he uses to pass security. During the conversation the caller obtains
additional information about the account from the call handler.
During the second call, the caller again passes security and gives the account number. This
time he again asks for an account balance and is provided with further information about
account transactions. Its likely that this caller was impersonating Mr R.
The complaint has been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Any financially regulated business such as Nationwide must adhere to the broad principles
of conduct set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. These are referred to as The
Principles and include, amongst others:
2 Skill, care and diligence
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
6 Customers' interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Additionally, any firm that deals with personal information related to their customers are
required to follow the relevant laws and guidance contained in the UK General Data
Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and the Data Protection Act 2018.
One of the seven key principles for firms to follow when dealing with personal data is:
(f) processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, including
protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss,
destruction or damage, using appropriate technical or organisational measures (integrity
and confidentiality).Mr and Mrs R had funds taken from their account without their permission, which Nationwide
replaced within a few days. So, Ill deal with how Nationwide operated their account, the way
in which Nationwide dealt with the investigation into their loss, including the lack of
transparency about what went on.
Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the pieces of information theyve
provided and if I dont make reference to a particular piece of evidence, its only because I
dont consider it necessary to come to my decision.
Firstly, Id like to clear up the procedure adopted by Nationwide for dealing with the
withdrawal. Mr and Mrs R were under the impression that a token was used because they
saw a withdrawal slip with a false signature, that was given for the transaction. Nationwide
have explained the token they refer to is either a passbook or a physical card used to
access the account. So, when Nationwide used the non-token withdrawal process, this was
a means to deal with the withdrawal where a passbook or card wasnt available, which was
the case here.
When I examined the evidence of Nationwides interaction with the fraudster, it was apparent
that he already had some basic details about Mr R before he called Nationwide. I realise Mr
and Mrs R think that an internal fraud was responsible for their situation, but I dont think
thats the case here. If it was an employee responsible, I would have thought the caller
would have had better access to Nationwides systems and probably wouldnt have needed
to make any calls prior to targeting the account. But, my role here is to consider Mr and Mrs
Rs complaint and how Nationwide acted. The investigation of criminal complaints is solely a
matter for the police.
Turning to the actual loss of their funds, Nationwide received two calls before the branch
visit, which having listened to them, appear to be from a fraudster. The information he used
to pass security is very basic and whilst its not my role to change procedures, I can
comment on the effectiveness of them in individual circumstances. In this case, the fraudster
didnt know some information which I would have expected most account holders to know.
Nationwide provided this to him, without further checks. Some of the information obtained in
the first call was used in the follow up call to obtain extra details about the account.
Because theres no detailed account of the branch visit and the system Nationwide use
doesnt record answers given to security questions, its not possible to be certain that the
information given to the fraudster on these calls was directly responsible for the loss. But, I
think the additional information gave the fraudster confidence there were funds in the
account and that it hadnt been used for some time  because that was part of the
information he was given during the calls. I accept that both Mr and Mrs R and Nationwide
were both victims of this crime, but the information given to the fraudster by Nationwide
enabled him to confidently target Mr and Mrs Rs account, with little chance of them finding
out the losses for some time. It was only by chance they visited the branch a few weeks
afterwards to deal with the specimen signature.
These calls not only provided valuable additional information to assist the fraud, but the
caller was also given private information about Mr R. I asked Mr and Mrs R if theyd ever
been told the details of the calls and they confirmed Nationwide never spoke to them about
it. Nationwide have obligations to protect their customers information, which doesnt appear
to have happened here. They didnt inform Mr and Mrs R of the detail that was given to the
fraudster.
Only the Information Commissioners Office can decide if theres been a data breach, but our
service has the remit to determine the impact on a complainant concerning the way abusiness dealt with their personal data. Mr and Mrs R have confirmed that theyre not aware
of any further attempts to use private information to target them since this incident. So, whilst
they havent suffered any further direct financial loss, theyve suffered ongoing stress about
the type of information known to the fraudster. It would have been, and still is, a worrying
time for Mr and Mrs R, thinking someone has private information about them. Not all the data
loss was because of Nationwide, but they did reveal private information that could be of use
and Nationwide failed to tell them what had been disclosed.
Nationwide should now reveal the specific information contained in the two calls with the
fraudster to fully inform Mr and Mrs R about the information passed to the fraudster to allow
them to make informed decisions about their own information security.
Mr and Mrs R were understandably worried about their remaining funds and were looking for
Nationwide to re-assure them they could protect their money during their visit to the branch.
A full block, whilst preventing any use of the account, seems to have been the appropriate
means to persuade Mr and Mrs R that their money would have been safe. I dont agree with
Nationwides assertion that it wouldnt have been a flexible option for them because this
account was hardly used and the need for flexibility seemed low.
So, I dont think its likely that a discussion about a full block took place whilst they were in
the branch because they removed their funds the same day. If Nationwide had discussed all
the options available to Mr and Mrs R, I think it more than likely they would have opted for a
full block with Nationwide as it offered the appropriate protection for their money, with the
least inconvenience to them.
Mr and Mrs R then had to make immediate arrangements to redeposit their funds. This
would no doubt have added to their worry because it was almost the end of the year when
most businesses were closing, and they wanted to securely deposit their money without
delay.
Theres further disagreement over whether the signature was checked prior to the
withdrawal by the fraudster. Nationwides system shows that either account holder can
withdraw money with a signature, and Mr and Mrs R maintain that Nationwide didnt have a
specimen signature for Mr R. They told us that Mrs R had done most of the account
administration up till that point and it was time to add Mr R to the account, which was the
reason for the visit to the building society.
Because Nationwides system doesnt record what checks were made at the time of the
withdrawal and the cashier cant remember much about it, its not possible to confirm if the
signature was checked during the withdrawal. I dont think it particularly adds anything to the
situation. I say that because Nationwides internal procedures were followed, which allowed
the withdrawal to be made. Those funds were soon refunded to Mr and Mrs R, ensuring Mr
and Mrs R werent out of pocket.
I accept that Nationwide were also the target of a crime, but they also have responsibilities to
follow the FCA principles I mentioned above, plus the relevant guidance laid down by the
ICO. Nationwide gave private information to an unauthorised individual and didnt inform Mr
and Mrs R about what specifically was revealed. This caused ongoing stress and worry
about potentially being targeted by other fraudsters. If Nationwide had told them the details
of the calls, Mr and Mrs R could have acted to reduce their exposure to possible fraud.
Nationwide should now reveal the content of the calls and provide a commercial package of
identity theft monitoring for a minimum period of one year. Also, to pay the original £75
offered to Mr and Mrs R plus an additional £250 towards the stress and worry caused by
their handling of the situation.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Nationwide didnt respond to the provisional decision and Mr and Mrs R made several 
observations. In summary they said:
Mr R didnt have an email registered with Nationwide.
An email address was given to the person impersonating Mr R and for Nationwide to 
have given out that information, its likely that it came from the records held by them 
about Mr and Mrs Rs account. Whilst there does seem to be some doubt about the 
type of information that Nationwide held about Mr and Mrs Rs account, I dont think it 
changes the situation. 
In my provisional decision, I intended to instruct Nationwide to reveal the information 
given to the caller during the two calls. I see no reason to change that because it will 
provide Mr and Mrs R with the actual information given out by Nationwide, so they 
can understand for themselves what was discussed during the calls. 
Mr and Mrs R wanted to understand what Nationwides role was in the police 
investigation and they dont understand why the employee they thought was 
responsible for their loss wasnt dealt with.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R wanted to know who was responsible for their loss, 
and they believed they knew whod done it. But, as I previously explained, the role of 
our service is to address Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against Nationwide. Its for the 
police to undertake criminal investigations and any enquiries about this are better 
addressed to the investigating police officer.
Mr and Mrs R said Nationwide owed them a duty to report the breach under UK 
GDPR.
Id just like to reiterate that Its only the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) who 
can decide if theres been a breach under the UK GDPR.
My earlier considerations took into account the private information given out by 
Nationwide during the two calls. Beyond that information, Mr and Mrs R have rights 
to see what personal information is held by an organisation about them. Ive 
previously explained how this can be requested and theres a link to the ICO website 
for further information:
https://ico.org.uk/your-data-matters/your-right-to-get-copies-of-your-data/
Mr and Mrs R didnt understand which calls I was referring to in my provisional 
decision.
The references to calls in my provisional decision refers to two phone calls made by 
the impersonator to Nationwide. These calls were used to obtain information about 
Mr and Mrs Rs account, which is why my final decision will be to instruct Nationwide 
to reveal the contents of those calls.
Mr and Mrs R didnt think the award was adequate based on the risk to their savings.Ive carefully considered the impact of the loss of their funds in my provisional 
decision and having read Mr and Mrs Rs comments about it, Im not inclined to 
change my mind. The awards based on the impact to both of them based on what 
actually happened and not the risk to their savings for some potential future incident. 
Mr and Mrs R suffered an initial financial loss which Nationwide then refunded, but 
they did experience ongoing stress and worry, and I think the award is both fair and 
reasonable taking into account all the circumstances. 
Ive also considered whether expenses should form part of the award, but whilst Mr 
and Mrs R had to close their business to deal with the issue, theres an accepted 
inconvenience when having to deal with the aftermath of such an event. I dont 
underestimate the impact it had on Mr and Mrs R, but I dont think an award for 
expenses is appropriate, because the time taken to deal with it wasnt unusually 
excessive.
Mr and Mrs R didnt want to entrust their security to Nationwide.
In my provisional decision, I intended to instruct Nationwide to pay for a years 
identity theft monitoring. This was to mitigate against any possible future fraud 
attempts involving Mr and Mrs Rs personal information. Typically, this is undertaken 
by separate specialist companies. Im still of the opinion that this is a necessary 
protective measure that Nationwide can fund that will provide additional reassurance 
to Mr and Mrs R. 
Putting things right
 Having taken all the additional comments from Mr and Mrs R into account, I havent seen 
anything that would lead me to a different outcome. So, I dont intend to change my 
provisional decision, which will now become my final decision. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Nationwide Building Society are 
instructed to:
Reveal in writing to Mr and Mrs R the private information disclosed to the fraudster in
phone calls with Nationwide.
Provide a minimum of one years identity theft monitoring for both Mr and Mrs R.
Pay the original £75 compensation plus an additional £250 for the stress and worry
caused by Nationwides handling of the situation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman