DRN-3816784
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt provide her with a courtesy car following 
a claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to reimburse her travel costs. 
What happened
Mrs B was involved in an accident and made a claim. Aviva directed her to a credit hire 
company as it thought the claim was non-fault. But this company couldnt provide Mrs B with 
a hire car until the other drivers insurer had accepted liability. 
So Mrs B asked Aviva for a courtesy car under her policy. Aviva firstly said this wasnt 
provided by her policy as it thought her car was a total loss. It then checked this and found 
the car to be repairable. Avivas approved repairer couldnt provide a courtesy car for some 
days. And so Mrs B was directed back to the hire company, but she didnt agree to contact it 
again due to the questions it had asked. 
Aviva agreed that it had made a mistake in not correctly assessing Mrs Bs car as repairable, 
causing a days delay in her claim. It also said it should have explained that the hire 
company would have provided a car under the policy without asking Mrs B so many 
questions. And so it paid Mrs B £100 compensation. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva 
wasnt responsible for the actions of the credit hire company. Avivas repairer wasnt able to 
provide Mrs B with a car for six days. But the Investigator thought that the courtesy car 
provision was subject to availability. And so she thought Avivas compensation for one days 
delay was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs B replied that she thought the Investigators time-line of events wasnt correct and she 
wanted her taxi fares refunded. She also wanted her complaint about paying her policy 
excess addressed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs B feels frustrated that her car was damaged due to no fault of her 
own, but she is left out of pocket by the incident. Our approach in cases like this is to 
consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and 
fairly and reasonably.
I think there has been some confusion about the time-line of events. Mrs B has provided 
transcripts of the online chats in which she discussed her claim with Aviva. And I can see 
that they are time-stamped for the days after her accident. So I have relied on these and 
Avivas file to understand what has happened. 
The accident was first reported on 9 November 2021. When Mrs B first notified her claim to 
Aviva, it thought the claim would be non-fault due to the circumstances and as the other 
driver had admitted liability at the scene. 
Two days later, on 11 November 2021, Mrs B contacted Aviva as she hadnt heard anything 
further. Aviva had an incorrect mileage for her car which made the car uneconomical to 
repair. This was corrected, and Aviva agreed that the car was repairable. Aviva then directed 
Mrs B to a credit-hire company to deal with her claim outside her policy. 
This isnt unusual when the claim is non-fault. The benefit for Mrs B was that she would be 
likely to get a similar car to her own whilst it was being repaired and the costs would be paid 
by the other drivers insurer. And I can see that Mrs B agreed to this. Aviva also told Mrs B 
that if the company couldnt provide her with a replacement car, then it would arrange this for 
her. 
Aviva agreed that it had incorrectly told Mrs B that her car was uneconomical to repair. And I 
can see that her policy, like most policies Ive seen, doesnt provide a courtesy car in the 
case of total loss. So I agree that Avivas error caused one days delay in providing Mrs B 
with a courtesy car. 
But I dont agree that Aviva was responsible for the further delays in providing Mrs B with a 
courtesy car. This is because Mrs B had then decided to claim through the credit hire 
company and not her policy. So, as its a separate business, I cant hold Aviva responsible 
for any service failings. 
The company couldnt provide Mrs B with a car immediately. So Mrs B then raised a claim 
with Aviva instead. This was on 16 November 2021, five days after her referral to the credit 
hire company. The agent said that it would review Mrs Bs taxi receipts. Mrs B also provided 
us with a letter from the garage which made the repairs. This confirms that a car was 
provided two days later, on 18 November 2021.  
I can see that Mrs Ps policy document sets out the terms and conditions relevant to 
courtesy cars on page 10 of her policy booklet:
A courtesy car is provided subject to availability to reduce your inconvenience and where 
possible ensure you remain mobile.
 A courtesy car will only be provided when your claim has been accepted and your car is 
repairable, and is being repaired by our approved repairer network.
So Aviva wasnt obliged to provide a courtesy car until Mrs Bs car was being repaired. And 
this is also subject to availability. So Im satisfied that Aviva then provided Mrs B with a 
courtesy car in keeping with her policys terms and conditions. Im satisfied that its not 
required to deal with Mrs Bs transport costs whilst she was without a car. And so it doesnt 
need to refund Mrs Bs taxi fares. 
Aviva paid Mrs B £100 compensation for its initial error in deeming her car to be non-
repairable. And it said it should have better explained to Mrs B that she could have had a 
replacement car from the hire company without going through its claims process. I think the 
level of compensation is fair and reasonable for the impact of these errors as its in keeping 
with our published guidance. I dont require Aviva to do anything further.
Mrs B has raised concerns about having to pay her policy excess. But, as the Investigator 
has already explained, Mrs B will have to address these concerns to Aviva to give it a 
chance to respond before we can consider these concerns further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman