DRN-4036907
The complaint
Mr C complains that Legal and general Assurance (Pensions Management) Limited (L&G) 
delayed the payment of benefits from his pension plan during which the value of his fund fell. 
He would like compensation for the losses suffered. 
What happened
Mr C had already taken his tax-free cash from his pension plan with L&G. He called it on 17 
January 2022 for a valuation and a retirement options pack (ROP) was issued the next day. 
This said the value was £25,919.83. Mr C contacted L&G several times over the next few 
months and further ROPs were issued. On 1 April 2022 he told L&G he wanted to withdraw 
his fund, but not until after 6 April 2022. A further ROP was emailed to him on 4 April 2022, 
quoting a value of £25,270.86. Mr C completed the forms and returned them to L&G, who 
received them on 7 April 2022. He chased L&G several times but didnt receive an 
illustration of his benefits until 27 April 2022 and his income payment wasnt made until 20 
May 2022. 
Mr C complained about the delay. He said the value had fallen by around £400 compared to 
the information sent on 4 April 2022 and hed been delayed in repaying his mortgage, 
incurring additional interest costs. L&G agreed its service hadnt been satisfactory and it had 
failed to call him back when promised. It agreed a loss had been incurred. It said the earliest 
date it could have received all necessary documents from Mr C was 26 April 2022 and that it 
should have paid benefits based on the fund value two days later. However, it said the 
payment to Mr C still wouldnt have been made until 20 May 2022. This was because it only 
ran payroll on the 21st of the month assuming all necessary paperwork had been received by 
the 5th of the month. In May 2022 payroll had been run a day early as 21 May was a 
Saturday. So, it couldnt have made payment in April 2022. L&G said the value it should 
have used was £53.85 higher than what it did use, and it paid this to Mr C along with £75 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this, and he referred his complaint to our service, saying L&G should 
honour the valuation it gave on the illustration sent on 4 April 2022. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint, and she upheld it in part.
She said the value on the illustration wasnt guaranteed, so L&G didnt have to honour this. 
She said L&G had caused an unreasonable delay in processing Mr Cs withdrawal but said 
payment couldnt have been made in April 2022 due to the way it operates payroll. But she 
didnt think it had used the correct valuation date to calculate whether Mr C had suffered a 
loss. 
She said L&G had issued the ROP in line with its service level agreement (SLA) on 4 April 
2022. As Mr C returned the completed form on 7 April L&G should have issued the 
illustration with nine working days to meet the SLA, so 20 April, but it wasnt sent until 27 
April 2022. Mr C then returned the application in two working days. So, had it met the SLA it 
would have had the form back by 22 April and should have used the fund price from 26 April 
2022 to calculate Mr Cs benefits. She said L&G should compare the fund prices on 26 April 
2022 to the price it did use, and if higher should compensate Mr C for his loss.
L&G didnt accept our investigators view. It said her timeline didnt include the two Easter 
bank holidays in April 2022. This meant that the SLA deadline for issuing the illustration was 
the 21st not 20th April. So, it wouldnt have received the completed forms back from Mr C until 
25 April 2022, so the prices on 27 April 2022 should have been used. It said these were 
lower than those on date it had used. So, Mr C was £97.57 better off on its earlier 
calculations. It provided screenshots confirming the respective valuations.
Our investigator agreed L&G was correct about the dates and that there wasnt a loss. She 
confirmed this to Mr C, who didnt accept the figures. He said he wasnt surprised as despite 
L&G accepting it made an error the issue hadnt been addressed. Our investigator sent a 
second view to Mr C confirming the complaint wasnt being upheld.
As Mr C doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I understand Mr Cs frustration over what has happened, but I think L&G has fairly 
compensated him for the financial consequences of the error it did make. L&Gs quoted 
timeframes for issuing ROPs, illustrations and processing the retirement claim arent 
unreasonable in themselves. It accepts it delayed issuing some documentation to Mr C 
which initially meant a lower valuation than was fair was used in calculating his benefits. 
But L&G has shown evidence that this didnt delay the actual payment of Mr Cs money to 
him, which had to be run through its monthly payroll system. One of the key factors 
determining how long it will be before pension benefits are actually received is how 
frequently the provider runs payroll. If this is more than once a month this can significantly 
reduce the time involved. For Mr Cs arrangement L&G operate payroll monthly, which isnt 
unreasonable. And cut off dates for payroll a week or more before the run date are very 
common amongst providers. This information was in the documents it sent to Mr C. As he 
wanted to take his benefits after 6 April 2022 the payroll cut off date for April had already 
been missed, so the earliest payment date was 20 May 2022. So, I cant say that L&G 
unfairly delayed paying Mr C his benefits.
And it wouldnt be reasonable for me to tell L&G to honour the fund values it had previously 
provided because it is clear from the illustrations provided to Mr C that the values quoted 
werent guaranteed and could change. The ROP dated 3 April 2022 stated:
Your pension pot
The value of your pension pot shown above isnt guaranteed. The actual amount 
when you take your benefits may be different.
And the email providing the illustration also contained a notice that values werent 
guaranteed and would be calculated:
on the second working day following receipt of all outstanding forms and information 
requiredL&G has explained that once it receives a completed options form back it should have 
issued an illustration and application form within nine working days. I dont think that is an 
unreasonable timescale. But this was missed and the consequence of that was that the 
wrong valuation date was used by L&G. 
When Mr C complained L&G it agreed it hadnt met its service standard. It created a timeline 
based on when he did return the forms to establish it should have used a valuation date of 
28 April 2022, and paid compensation based on this. Initially our investigator thought the 
valuation date should have been 26 April 2022, but this omitted two Bank holidays and the 
correct date should have been 27 April 2022. 
On that date L&G has calculated the value was £97.57 lower than on 28 April 2022 it 
originally used to calculate any loss. So, I think it has already paid fair compensation for the 
loss caused by missing this date. And the primary cause of delay in actual payment was 
the payroll process required to pay Mr Cs benefits to him and it wasnt possible to bring this 
forward. 
L&G has apologised for not meeting its usual service standards and failing to return 
telephone calls when Mr C was chasing for updates and paid £75 compensation for this 
which I think is reasonable in the circumstances and it need not do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman