DRN-3679181
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined to pay a cheque twice, 
but then paid it after he had made the payment by alternative means, resulting in him being 
overdrawn. He is also unhappy that Halifax closed his account without warning, resulting in 
direct debts being unpaid. 
What happened
In January 2022 a cheque was presented to Halifax on Mr Ps account to the value of 
£24000. This was a cheque written by Mr P to pay a debt to an individual. The cheque 
triggered fraud checks because of its value and was put on hold whist Halifax tried to verify it 
with Mr P. 
 
Halifax tried to call Mr P but had no answer and so they sent him a letter on 18 January 
advising that the cheque had been returned unpaid but could be re-presented. 
The cheque was re-presented and on 20 January Halifax sent Mr P a second letter advising 
that the cheque had been returned unpaid again. 
On 20 January Mr P attended his local branch to query why the cheque wasnt paid.  
Following that visit he was sent a letter advising him that this behaviour in branch was 
unacceptable and any repeat of that behaviour would lead to them giving notice to close his 
account. 
On 21 January Mr P attended the branch again and Halifax say that his behaviour was again 
unacceptable, and on that occasion, they called the police. 
On the same day, Mr P managed to make a faster payment for the £24000 but at the same 
time the cheque was represented again and went through, which meant that the two 
transactions took Mr P £12746.92 overdrawn. He was charged daily interest on the overdraft 
and three of his direct debits were then rejected.
On 27 January The £24000 transfer was reversed and Mr Ps account was restored to credit. 
On 28 January Halifax closed Mr Ps account and sent him a cheque for the balance of the 
account. 
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint. She didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr P disagreed with this, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered what Mr P has told me about what happened, and I have also 
looked at the notes and correspondence sent by Halifax. I can appreciate that Mr P had got 
himself into debt and the cheque he had issued was to clear that debt. I can also understand 
how upsetting it would have been to find out that the cheque had been returned. However, I 
havent upheld Mr Ps complaint and I will explain why. 
The cheque
The cheque was high value at £24,000 and triggered fraud checks. Its quite normal for this 
to happen with high value transactions, and I can see that Halifax tried to call Mr P and  
wrote to him on the same day to advise that the cheque had been put on hold and asking 
him to make contact. 
I understand from Mr P that he tried to make contact by phone, but for reasons that are 
unclear, he was not able to speak to the right department, and so he decided to go into 
branch, which he seems to have done on 19 January and made a complaint.  
The cheque was presented again on 20 January and again it was returned unpaid. A letter 
was sent to Mr P advising that it could be re-presented. I am unclear as to why it was 
returned for a second time given that Mr P had visited the branch regarding the cheque and 
complaining about its non-payment. 
Mr P visited the branch again that day and Halifax say that his behaviour was unacceptable, 
and that he was verbally abusive to staff. The customer notes reflect this and advise that a 
warning letter was issued. I have no reason to believe that these contemporaneous notes 
arent accurate. 
I can then see that the following day  - 21 January - Mr P made the payment by faster 
payment, and so the second rejection of the cheque didnt cause any significant delay in the 
funds being received by the recipient. 
Unfortunately, on the same day that the faster payment was made, the cheque was 
presented again and paid, so the double payment meant Mr Ps account went overdrawn.
Mr P argues that Halifax shouldnt have paid the cheque. He says he was advised in branch 
that the cheque wouldnt be presented again. However, I havent seen any evidence of that 
advice being given. I have seen the letter dated 20 January which advises that the cheque 
could be represented. 
I do think that looking at what seems to have happened here, that overall there has been a 
breakdown in communication between Halifax and Mr P. I dont understand why, given that 
Mr P went into branch twice, Halifax didnt satisfy themselves on the first visit that there was 
no fraud issue and that the cheque could be paid, and so I can understand why that second 
rejection caused Mr P additional upset. However, I am also mindful of the notes that indicate 
that Mr Ps behaviour in branch on both occasions wasnt acceptable, and that he was 
abusive to staff, and so it is likely that this contributed to the confusion that seems to have 
arisen.
Either way, I dont think Halifax have done anything wrong in paying the cheque on the third 
presentation as the letter sent to him after the second rejection advises that the cheque can 
be represented. 
      
Account closureHalifax, along with all financial institutions can decide whether they want to continue to do 
business with a customer. However, if they want to close a customers account they have to 
comply with the terms and conditions they have in place for doing so. 
Halifax would normally be required to give two months notice to close an account, but they 
can give less or notice in the following circumstances:
If we reasonably think that:
 there is illegal or fraudulent activity on or connected to the account;
 you are or may be behaving improperly (for example, in a threatening or abusive 
way);
 by continuing the agreement, we (or another company in the Lloyds Banking 
Group) may be exposed to action from any government, regulator or other authority 
or may break a regulatory requirement; or
 you have seriously or repeatedly broken this agreement in any other way
Halifax wrote to Mr P on 20 January following the incident in branch, warning him about the 
consequences of unacceptable behaviour. The letter warned that a repeat of this may result 
in account closure. 
The account notes show that there was further unacceptable behaviour in branch on 21 
January, 25 January and 28 January. On one occasion the police were called. 
I can understand that Mr P was frustrated by what had happened, and that particularly for 
someone on a low income, having the payment go through twice and leaving him overdrawn 
would have been upsetting, but I cant say that Halifax have done anything wrong in closing 
the account. They have followed the policy and given fair warning to Mr P about what would 
happen if there was a second incident. 
Mr P has also raised  query about a payment that was made into his account on 28 January, 
which he says is missing, but I can see that the cheque issued on account closure includes 
this payment in of £1058.47 which was received into the account on 28 January. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax and so they 
dont need to do anything further. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman