DRN-4203445
The complaint
Ms L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse her the money she lost through 
lending money to an acquaintance in December 2020.
What happened
In December 2020, Ms L visited a Lloyds branch and made a payment of just over £12,000. 
The payment was sent to an account in South Africa and Ms L intended the payment as a 
loan to assist an acquaintance who was in financial difficulties. I will refer to that 
acquaintance as D.
Ms L explains that shed previously met D, albeit only briefly and many years prior. Shed 
reached out to D through messages, intending initially to make contact with Ds sister (with 
whom Ms L had resided in South Africa).
Ms L then became involved in a long-standing conversation with D through various 
messaging platforms. She also spoke to him by phone. She says that in December 2020, D 
told her he was in financial difficulties and faced the loss of his family home.
Ms L offered to help by lending him some money. They agreed this would be a loan for a 
period of six months. 
However, after the loan had been made, D disclosed to Ms L that his business was 
struggling due to the pandemic and he wasnt certain when he would be able to repay the 
loan. He hadnt mentioned this before, having previously told Ms L his business was doing 
well. Ms L started to have concerns he might not be in a position to repay her as had been 
agreed. Ms L contacted other members of Ds family, but they were unable to assist. 
Ms L remained in contact with D for nearly two years, but the loan wasnt repaid. Ultimately, 
D became abusive to her, and Ms L began to believe that D had never intended to repay her 
and had perhaps defrauded her. She reported the matter to Action Fraud and then to Lloyds 
in 2022.
Lloyds discussed the situation with Ms L. But it said it wasnt liable to reimburse Ms L. It had 
followed her instructions in sending the payment shed requested it to make. Because this 
had been an international payment it wasnt covered by the voluntary reimbursement code 
(the CRM Code). 
Lloyds contacted the beneficiary bank in South Africa but was told that the funds had already 
been fully utilised and that the other bank suggested Ms L should raise the matter with the 
account holder directly. Lloyds told Ms L that this appeared to be a civil dispute rather than a 
scam.
Unhappy with this outcome Ms L referred her complaint to this service for an impartial 
review. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint. He noted Ms Ls comments about her serious 
health concerns, and how this had affected her at the relevant time including impacting her 
judgement (I will not detail these circumstances here, but I have taken this evidence into 
consideration). 
However, the Investigator didnt think Lloyds had treated Ms L unfairly or that it needed to 
refund her the payment. He thought it was more likely this was a civil dispute rather than a 
scam as the bank had said. He thought this was most likely a loan that hadnt been repaid. It 
wasnt consistent with a given scam that D had continued to correspond with Ms L for nearly 
two years after the payment without further requests for money. There had been no grounds 
for Lloyds to prevent Ms L from making the payment she had told the bank to make.
As Ms L didnt accept our Investigators view, I have been asked to reach a final decision on 
her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Ms L. Everything I have seen indicates that she 
lent this money in good faith, and out of a kind-hearted intent to help out someone who she 
believed would significantly benefit from that help. But shes been left out of pocket by a 
significant sum as a result of Ds failure to repay her.
Of course, the main cause of her financial loss here was D. For me to say Lloyds is liable in 
this type of situation, I would need to find that it could and should have acted to prevent that 
eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in some other way.
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, Lloyds has a primary obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction 
without undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud 
or scam. 
In saying that, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice Lloyds should have been 
looking out for payments that were unusual or out of character and which might therefore be 
indicative of the potential for harm through fraud or scam. Where it identified such a 
payment, Id expect it to have taken proportionate steps to intervene - with the intent of 
reassuring itself that the payment was likely legitimate in nature.
Here the single payment involved was made by Ms L during her visit to a Lloyds branch. She 
does not dispute that she authorised the payment. So in the first instance shed be 
presumed liable for it. But I have considered whether the evidence demonstrates that Lloyds 
did enough here in relation to the good industry practice I have mentioned above.
I understand that the payment took place some time ago, and so it is natural that Ms L does 
not necessarily recall exactly what happened with the same clarity as if the events had 
occured yesterday.
Lloyds says when the payment was made, its system notes record the payment was treated 
as being high value, and that the branch manager needed to authorise it. Lloyds says this 
reflected its normal procedure where the payment appeared to present a higher than usual 
level of risk. It explains that same procedure then would involve questions being asked about 
the payment with the intent of establishing if the payment might be connected to fraud or 
scam. But it has been unable to obtain further details from the staff involved given the passage of time.
On the other hand, Ms L doesnt recall speaking to the branch manager or answering any 
questions about the payment from the staff member she dealt with. 
There is clearly some inconsistency between these two versions of events. I cannot know for 
certain what took place during Ms Ls visit to the branch. The events in question occurred 
more than two years ago now, and even the strongest memories will fade over such a 
timescale. Where the evidence is contradictory, as it is here, Im required reach my decision 
based on a balance of probabilities  in other words based on what I consider to be most 
likely given the information provided by both sides.
So, Ive looked at the contemporary evidence from the time. Lloyds has produced copies of 
its internal system notes which record that the manager provided authority for the payment 
to be made. The notes from the time are consistent with Lloyds version of events and what it 
says was its usual procedure for a higher risk payment. In the chat conversation Ms L has 
provided, I can see in one comment dated 9 December 2020 (the day after the payment) she 
tells D that: good things do happen to good people  even the bank manager insisted 
yesterday. 
Based on that contemporaneous evidence I am satisfied that Ms L most likely did interact 
with the branch manager in the course of making the payment even if she no longer recalls 
this. Furthermore, her comment about the manager remarking good things happening to 
good people suggests to me that the interaction almost certainly included some reference to 
the purpose of the payment (as Lloyds claims it would have). The comment reflects this 
being a good act that Ms L was carrying out and the managers comment suggests 
awareness of that which must have been established through the interaction with Ms L. 
In all, I find it most likely that there was some discussion about the payment and the purpose 
of the payment between Ms L and the branch staff, including with the branch manager. 
Further, I consider it likely that Ms L disclosed she was lending an old acquaintance some 
money to help them through a difficult period. In my assessment, this explanation best fits 
the available evidence from the time, and I find it is the most likely in the circumstances. 
This means I find that Lloyds did intervene to discuss the payment with Ms L prior to 
processing it - and that it did so to a sufficient extent to establish the true reason behind it. 
While, again, I cannot know for certain what discussion took place, I have considered 
whether I think it more likely than not that the conversation should have prompted the bank 
to refuse to make the payment for Ms L.
However, I think that having been told that she was making this payment to help out 
someone in need, whom she had met in person many years prior and whom she had been 
corresponding with for many months, and a close relative of someone she had resided with 
in South Africa, the bank would have had no good reason to stop her from sending this 
money. 
At the time of the payment everything I have seen suggests Ms L was strongly of the 
conviction that she was making the payment entirely of her own volition  and she wasnt 
being coerced or pushed into it. That certainly isnt reflected in the chat comments or emails 
at or around the time of the payment. Neither do those comments indicate to me that there 
was any obvious sign of vulnerability the bank might have been at fault for not identifying 
(and Ms L had not disclosed this to the bank at the time).
Had the bank pressed her further I think shed have explained she was entirely comfortable 
making the payment and trusted D to repay her in line with the agreement theyd reached.So regardless of whether Ms L has or has not in fact been defrauded by D, I dont think 
Lloyds - at the relevant time - would have had sufficient reason to stop her from carrying out 
the payment she was instructing it to make. I dont think proportionate enquiries of her at the 
time would have likely led the bank to have significant concerns that Ms L was being 
defrauded or scammed. So, I dont find Lloyds could have prevented the subsequent loss of 
Ms Ls funds (whether through Ds inability to repay the loan or fraudulent intentions from the 
outset). And I cant fairly require Lloyds to accept liability for that sum or repay Ms L the sum 
she is now claiming.
When Lloyds was made aware of what had happened, it contacted the recipient bank in an 
attempt to establish if any funds could be returned. But that bank responded explaining that 
the beneficiary had already fully utilised the funds. Nothing therefore could be recovered. I 
dont think Lloyds needed to or could have done more here.
In summary, I dont find Lloyds needs to refund Ms L for the payment she made. In saying 
this, I want to stress how sorry I am to hear about how her good gesture appears to have 
been taken advantage of, and the impact the events have had on her. But I do not find this 
was Lloyds fault in any material way, or that it could have reasonably prevented what 
happened.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman