DRN-4517842
The complaint
Mr K complains about some missed payment information Sky UK Limited have recorded with 
credit reference agencies.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr K took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Sky to get a brand new 
mobile telephone device. Under the agreement, Mr K made monthly payments using Direct 
Debits, to pay for the device. But, in January 2023 a payment was returned to Mr Ks bank 
account, because the account didnt have sufficient funds to cover the cost of the Direct 
Debit. 
Sky wrote to Mr K about the missed payment and they also changed Mr Ks payment 
method from Direct Debit, to a manual payment. Mr K then repaid the arrears owed under 
the agreement in February 2023, after a second monthly payment was missed. 
Mr K wrote to Sky and asked them not to pass on any missed payment information to credit 
reference agencies. He said the missed payment wasnt intentional and he had the funds 
available. Mr K explained to Sky that he hadnt completed a transfer from his savings 
account to his current account, before the Direct Debit was claimed. 
Mr K also said Sky shouldnt have cancelled the Direct Debit and that their website says the 
Direct Debit would be claimed for a second time, ten days after an initial attempt. Sky didnt 
look to change the missed payment information and Mr K brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks case and concluded that Sky hadnt treated Mr K 
fairly. He found that Sky shouldnt have cancelled the Direct Debit instruction and had they 
not done so, Mr K would have made the February 2023 payment. So, the investigator asked 
Sky to remove the missed payment information for February 2023. 
Mr K accepted the investigators findings, but Sky didnt. They said Mr K was aware of the 
two repayments he had missed and was given guidance on how he could make manual 
repayments. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, Mr Ks complaint was passed to me to make a 
decision.
I sent Mr K and Sky my provisional decision on this case, on 7 December 2023. I explained 
why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is included 
below:
Mr K acquired the mobile telephone device under a fixed sum loan agreement. Our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of regulated agreements. 
The crux of Mr Ks complaint started when the Direct Debit instruction, which took funds from 
Mr Ks bank account to repay the fixed sum loan, was cancelled. Both Mr K and Sky agree 
there were insufficient funds in Mr Ks bank account, when the Direct Debit was claimed in 
January 2023. So, I dont think its disputed that the Direct Debit was correctly returned 
unpaid. 
During our investigation, Mr K provided a letter from his banker, which says Sky cancelled 
the Direct Debit. Sky havent disagreed with Mr Ks bankers comments. Against this 
background, Im persuaded that Sky took the decision to cancel Mr Ks chosen method of 
making the repayments. So, Ive considered what Sky and Mr K did next, to decide if Mr Ks 
credit file needs to be changed. 
Mr K says he wasnt suffering any financial difficulties in January 2023, which led to him 
having insufficient funds in his bank account. He says he simply forgot to make a transfer, to 
cover the payments debiting his current account. I can see from Mr Ks bank account 
statements, that he regularly transfers funds from his savings account. 
Because of this, I dont think Sky could have assumed that Mr K was experiencing 
difficulties, or any exceptional circumstances. I can see from Skys records that they called 
Mr K about the arrears. But, nothing in those calls point to any reason why Mr K would 
struggle to have the funds for future Direct Debits. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ks fixed sum loan, to see what they say in the 
event of an unpaid Direct Debit. While I can see the agreement told Mr K what would happen 
to recover any arrears, it doesnt specifically say that Sky will cancel a Direct Debit and 
change the repayment method. 
Mr K says he looked on Skys website, for guidance when he noticed his Direct Debit had 
been returned unpaid. He says Sky should have tried to claim the Direct Debit for a second 
time, and he transferred funds to his bank account in preparation for that. 
Ive looked at Skys website and I can see it draws a distinction between mobile telephone 
device contracts and other services they offer. So, I think Mr K looked at the correct 
guidance available to him. Under the heading Direct Debit failed, the guidance on the 
website says: 
Was there enough money in your bank account? 
Well attempt a second collection 10 days from your original payment date. All you 
need to do is make sure theres enough money in your bank account. If there isnt 
enough for us to collect, youll need to make a payment to clear your full balance 
using the links below. 
I think the guidance on Skys website is consistent with what Mr K has told us. Having 
considered all the evidence, I think there was an onus on Sky to have tried to collect the 
Direct Debit payment for a second time, after it was initially returned unpaid. 
Ive found that there wasnt an exceptional reason why Sky would have cancelled the Direct 
Debit. And I can see from Skys records that they didnt try to collect the payment for a 
second time, in line with the guidance on their website. It then follows that Im persuaded 
that Sky didnt treat Mr K fairly, when the Direct Debit was cancelled and where they didnt 
attempt a second claim for the repayment, later in January 2023. 
Mr K has sent us a copy of his bank statements, covering the period from December 2022, 
until 10 February 2023. After looking at the balance of Mr Ks bank account over this time, I 
can see that there were sufficient funds to cover the repayment to Sky, after the initial Direct 
Debit was returned unpaid in January 2023. I can also see that the account held enough 
funds to make the payment in February 2023. On balance, I think its likely Mr Ks bank account would have met the Direct Debit claim, had 
Sky made a second attempt in January 2023. 
Im also persuaded that the repayment would have been met the following month, in 
February 2023. Additionally, Mr K went on to repay the arrears and then made the 
subsequent monthly repayments on time. 
In all the circumstances, I think its fair for Sky to change Mr Ks credit file, to reflect what 
would have happened, had they followed their own guidance. I think its reasonable for the 
missed payment from January 2023 to remain on Mr Ks credit file. But, I think its fair that 
Sky removes the February 2023 missed payment marker, from the information held with 
credit reference agencies, about Mr Ks fixed sum loan agreement. 
Sky reinstated the Direct Debit instruction, once Mr K had repaid the arrears. So, I dont think 
they need to take any further action in respect of that. But, Mr K has explained that he 
experienced distress when trying to sort out the cancelled Direct Debit with Sky. He says he 
was preparing for a new mortgage application and the missed payment information added 
worry, to what was already a challenging time. 
I think there are too many aspects to a mortgage application, to draw any conclusions about 
the potential impact of Skys actions here. But, I do agree that Sky caused Mr K distress and 
inconvenience and I think its fair they make a payment to him to reflect that. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think its fair for Sky to pay Mr K £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Sky responded to the provisional decision and accepted it. Mr K responded to the provisional 
decision and in summary, he said:
After the second missed payment in February 2023, Sky passed the balance owed 
under the agreement to a debt collection agency. And that debt collection agency has 
also recorded adverse information.
The missed payment information recorded by Sky, resulted in him taking a more 
expensive mortgage deal and that Sky should have offered a simpler method of 
payment, when he spoke to them about the missed payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive found that Sky should have tried to collect the Direct Debit payment from Mr Ks bank 
account, around ten days after the repayment was missed in January 2023. It then follows 
that any action Sky took when they cancelled the Direct Debit, should be put right. This 
means removing any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies, in relation 
to the second missed payment in February 2023. 
So, I think my findings extend to the removal of any adverse information which may have 
been recorded by the debt collection agency, chosen by Sky to pursue Mr K for repayment.
Ive also thought about Mr Ks concerns that he had to take out a more expensive mortgage 
deal. I recognise that adverse information on a credit file is likely to have an impact on a 
customers borrowing prospects. But, I think it was always the case that Mr Ks credit file 
would show a missed payment.I say this because I still think the onus was on Mr K to have had the funds in his bank 
account, when the Direct Debit was initially claimed by Sky in January 2023. So, I think there 
were reasons, other than the missed payment information from February 2023, which may 
have had an impact on the mortgage deals available to Mr K. In all the circumstances, I dont 
think this means that Sky should look to compensate Mr K for any loss he says he suffered 
from taking out a particular deal with his mortgage lender.
In my review of Mr Ks complaint, I also considered the telephone calls he had with Sky 
when they contacted him to talk about the missed payment. I think my findings address 
where Sky could have done things differently and what they should do to put things right. 
Overall, I still think that even if Mr K was to have made a payment during the telephone call 
with Sky in February 2023, the missed payment information from January 2023 would 
remain. I accept Mr Ks reason that he simply forgot to transfer funds to his bank account. 
But, I dont think I can fairly ask Sky to ignore that missed payment, or say they should now 
remove any information related to it.
Having thought about the additional comments Mr K has made, I still think its fair for Sky to 
remove the missed payment information from February 2023, to resolve his complaint. I also 
think its fair for Sky to make a payment of £100 to Mr K, for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced.
Putting things right
For these reasons, Sky UK Limited should:
remove the missed payment information for February 2023, about the fixed sum loan 
agreement in Mr Ks name, from the records held with credit reference agencies; and
pay Mr K £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Sky UK Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman