DRN-2781900
The complaint
 Mr M complains that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) are proposing to settle a claim on his 
motor insurance policy as a split liability claim, when he thinks it should be a non-fault claim.
What happened
 Mr M has a motor insurance policy which is underwritten by Zenith, the policy was 
purchased through a broker.
Mr M was involved in an accident whereby his vehicle and another vehicle collided on a 
roundabout. He initially reported this to his insurance broker, who in turn referred him to an 
accident management company. At this time Mr M completed an accident report form with 
full details of the accident. It later transpired that the accident management company were 
not able to deal with Mr M's claim, so Mr M was referred back to his insurer, Zenith, to deal 
with his claim.
Once Zenith was made aware of the claim, it asked Mr M to complete an accident report 
form. Mr M didn't want to do this, he felt Zenith should be able to take the information he had 
already provided when he reported the claim to his broker. Zenith explained that it needed 
the information directly from Mr M in order to be able to pursue a claim against the other 
driver. Mr M reluctantly completed this.
Zenith approached the third party insurer (TPI) to pursue the claim, it told the TPI that it held 
the other driver at fault based on Mr M's version of events.
It arranged for Mr M's car to be collected for repair. At the time of collection Mr M was 
notified that he would need to pay the Excess on his policy when the repairs were 
completed. Mr M was unhappy with this and so didn't go ahead with the claim at that time, 
saying he only wanted the car to be repaired when liability was settled, and his excess was 
going to be waived.
In the meantime, the TPI responded saying that it didn't accept full liability for the accident, 
but that it was willing to offer a 50-50 settlement.
Mr M was unhappy with the proposed settlement so complained to Zenith about this and 
about the length of time the claim was taking, he also noted he was upset that he had had to 
provide an accident report form to it, as hed already done this with the broker. Zenith didn't 
uphold Mr M's complaint and so he brought it to this service.
The investigator partially upheld Mr M's complaint, in summary they said:
Zenith had acted fairly when asking Mr M to provide an accident report form, as it 
needed to be fully informed of the incident so it had direct and accurate information 
from Mr M when handling his claim.
As there was no independent witnesses or CCTV to the accident it was fair for Zenith 
to agree to proceed on a 50-50 settlement, when it was offered by the third party 
insurer.
There were some delays that were avoidable between October 2020 and January 
2021 and Zenith should pay £75 in compensation to recognise this.
Zenith agreed with the investigator's findings. Mr M disagreed saying he wished to pursue 
until the outcome he wants is achieved. The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Liability 
Having done so, I have to let Mr M know that I believe the investigator has reached the 
correct outcome here, and for broadly the same reasons, I'll explain.
Mr M originally reported his claim to his broker who referred him to another party, he 
provided a full report at this time, but this was not available for Zenith to see. When he was 
later referred to Zenith to deal with his claim, I dont think it was unreasonable for him to be 
asked to provide details and to complete an accident report form. I say this because, Zenith 
has a duty to ensure it has all the facts and any evidence that may be available when 
dealing with a claim, for it to be in the best position to pursue matters fairly and correctly.
Zenith has shown evidence that it approached the TPI with Mr M's claim stating its intent to 
hold the other driver liable. It has also shown that the TPI has not accepted liability but 
countered, saying it is willing to accept a 50-50 settlement. 
Mr M's policy along with every other motor insurance policy I've seen, includes a general 
condition which says it has the right to take over, defend or settle any claim as it sees fit. My 
role here it to see that it does so fairly.
I understand Mr M's strength of feeling here, but at this time as he hasn't made a claim there 
is no liability for Zenith to pursue. By this I mean Zenith has incurred no costs and so it has 
nothing to negotiate or litigate for. I must stress here, even if Mr M does decide to claim and 
Zenith decide to accept a 50-50 settlement, I don't think this would be unfair given the lack of 
independent evidence to support Mr Ms version of events. Zenith has confirmed, should Mr 
M wish to continue with the claim he is still able to accept the 50-50 settlement provided the 
TPI does not withdraw this offer. I would advise, that if Mr M does wish to claim he should 
probably do so sooner rather than later.
I appreciate Mr M doesn't want to pay his excess in order to have his car repaired. But I feel 
I should explain here, that an excess is an uninsured loss and isn't covered under his policy. 
What this means is, If Mr M makes any claim, he would always be liable for the excess 
under his policy. He would be entitled to claim it back in full, from the TPI provided a claim is 
settled on a non-fault basis. In the circumstances of this particular claim, if he chooses to go 
ahead with it, Mr M would be entitled to claim back 50% of his excess from the TPI. Zenith 
may choose to do this for him when it is recovering its own costs, however it is not obliged to 
do so.
DelaysThere was a delay of around three months, where Zenith had the offer of a 50-50 settlement 
from the TPI and hadn't reviewed it. It has agreed to pay £75 in compensation for this delay. 
I believe this to be a fair offer in the circumstances and broadly in line with what I would 
expect, so won't be asking it to increase this.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Zenith  can do for him.
Putting things right
 Zenith should pay Mr M £75, as agreed, to recognise the unnecessary delay in reviewing 
the offer from the TPI.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr M's complaint against 
Zenith Insurance plc.
Zenith should now pay Mr M £75 a set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman