DRN-4025005
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as K, complains about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc carried 
out a Know Your Customer (KYC) review.
Mr W, who is a director of K, brings this complaint on Ks behalf.
What happened
Mr W told us:
On 24 November 2022, the debit card he had for Ks Barclays bank account was 
declined. When he called Barclays, it explained that because Ks KYC details had not 
been updated the account had been put on hold. It said that if he filled in the relevant 
forms and sent them to back to the bank, the hold would be lifted.
At the time, he still had access to Ks funds via Barclays banking app; it was just his 
card that was not working. If he had realised that he was about to lose access to Ks 
funds entirely, he would have transferred the money away from Barclays.
The following day, having filled out the forms and sent them back, he called Barclays 
again. This time he was told Ks account had been closed on 16 November 2022, 
and Barclays was not willing to re-open it. 
He could not operate K without a bank account, but high street banks were quoting 
weeks for the opening of a new business bank account. He was eventually able to 
open an account with an online provider, but that provider did not accept cheques  
and initially Barclays said that it could only transfer the balance of Ks account by 
cheque.
After he made a post on social media, Barclays did electronically transfer Ks money 
to its new account. 
December is usually Ks busiest time of year, but he was unable to operate the 
business properly during December 2022 because he did not have access to Ks 
funds.
Barclays told us:
During 2022 it carried out a KYC review of Ks account. As part of that process, it 
wrote to Mr W asking for information about his business.
Mr W did not respond to its requests for information, so it sent him a further letter 
giving him notice that it intended to close Ks account.
When Mr W called on 24 November 2022, Barclays staff gave him the wrong 
information about the closure process. At that point it was already too late to prevent 
the closure, but Barclays staff failed to tell Mr W that  and instead they sent him 
KYC forms.
Ks account was actually closed on 29 November 2022 (not on 16 November 2022), 
and the proceeds sent by cheque on 7 December 2022. Mr W then explained that his 
new bank would not accept a cheque, and on 21 December 2022 he provided his 
new sort code and account number. The funds were in Ks new account on 30 
December 2022.
It offered £350 compensation to apologise for the miscommunication on 
24 November 2022, and to apologise for the inconvenience caused. It also offered to 
re-open Ks account, but Mr W did not wish to accept that offer.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but didnt uphold it in full. Our investigator 
thought Barclays was entitled to close Ks account, but he thought Barclays should pay £550 
(rather than £350) to compensate K in respect of the misinformation given on 24 November 
2022 and the delays in sending Ks funds to its new account.
Barclays accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr W did not. He said he was baffled as to 
why Barclays has not been expected to prove that it contacted him to request the KYC 
information  and in fact it did not contact him by phone, letter or email. He considers that his 
full losses should be compensated.
Our investigator then asked Barclays for evidence to show that it had contacted Mr W, and I 
later sent my own requests for information. Briefly, Barclays told us:
Its KYC letters were sent to K by a third party. It cannot provide copies of the actual 
letters sent, but it can provide templates together with information about when and 
where the third party sent the letters.
In this case, the third party first wrote to K on 8 March 2022. It sent reminders on 
26 April 2022 and 17 May 2022, then wrote on 21 June 2022 giving two months 
notice that it intended to close Ks account if it did not receive the information it had 
requested.
All of the letters were sent to address Barclays had on file for K (which is the same as 
the address Mr W provided on our complaint form).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as our investigator. Briefly, my 
findings are:
Barclays was entitled to carry out its KYC process, and it didnt do anything wrong in 
deciding to close Ks account.
Barclays customer service from 24 November 2022 onwards was poor, but the £550 
compensation it has already offered represents fair and reasonable compensation.
I give more details of my findings below.Banks in the UK are strictly regulated, and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. There are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
new and existing relationships. That sometimes means  as in this case  that a bank 
chooses to carry out a KYC review.
In principle, I have no concerns about Barclays decision to carry out a KYC review of Ks 
account. That means that in order to decide whether Barclays treated K fairly, I need to 
consider how that review was carried out.
I think the key issue in this complaint is whether Barclays sent the letters it says it sent. Our 
investigator thought it had, but Mr W said he didnt receive any of the letters.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr W, but having considered all the evidence I think it is 
more likely than not that Barclays did write to K in respect of a KYC review, and that it did 
give K notice that it intended to close Ks account.
Although Barclays cannot provide copies of the actual letters sent by its third party, I am 
satisfied with the evidence Barclays has provided. It is common for banks like Barclays to 
use third parties to carry out this sort of exercise, and I do not criticise Barclays for doing so.
I acknowledge that evidence that a letter was sent is not evidence that a letter was received. 
I am aware that there were several Royal Mail strikes in 2022, and it is possible that one or 
more of those strikes caused Ks letters to be delayed. But I think it is very unlikely that all of 
the letters went permanently astray, and on balance I think it is much more likely than not 
that Mr W did receive them.
I also acknowledge that Mr W does not recall receiving any letters about the KYC process, 
but again that doesnt necessarily imply that the letters were not sent.
Mr W did not provide the information Barclays had requested within two months of its 
21 June 2022 Notice To Close letter, so I consider that Barclays was entitled to close Ks 
account.
I accept that by 24 November 2022 Barclays was unable to stop the closure process. 
However, as it acknowledges, its staff should not have told Mr W that completing KYC forms 
would allow him to keep Ks account open. Barclays error meant that Mr W competed 
unnecessary forms, and also prevented him from making decisions about what to do with Ks 
money.
Putting things right
Barclays has already agreed to pay £550 in compensation, and I see no grounds on which I 
could fairly order it to pay any more than that. I acknowledge that Mr W strongly disagrees, 
but I consider that a payment of £550 represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint.
It is clear that Ks director, Mr W, suffered distress as a result of Barclays errors. He has 
provided a detailed explanation of the emotional harm he and his family suffered over the 
Christmas period, and I accept that Barclays actions added unnecessary stress to what was 
already a very difficult time. But the complainant here is the limited company K, and not 
Mr W as an individual. That means I have no power to make an award for any distress 
Barclays caused to Mr W, or to anybody else associated with K.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay K 
£550.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman