DRN-4322664
The complaint
Miss S complains that Next Retail Limited trading as Next Online (Next) irresponsibly 
provided her with, and increased the credit limit on, a credit account (account). 
What happened
In November 2019 Miss S was granted an account by Next with a credit limit of £150. 
In November 2020 Next increased Miss S account credit limit by £150 to £300.
In February 2023 Miss S complained to Next that it had been irresponsible in allowing her to 
open an account in November 2019 and in its decision to increase her account credit limit in 
November 2022.
In February 2023 Next issued Miss S with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL Next said it didnt believe it had acted, in November 2019 or November 2020, 
irresponsibly.
Miss S complaint was considered by one of our Investigators who ultimately came to the 
view that it shouldnt be upheld.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators view so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects 
which impact my decision.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Nexts decision to grant Miss S an account in November 2019 
In deciding to grant Miss S an account in November 2019 Next was obliged to carry out 
proportionate checks. What constitutes proportionate checks varies depending on the type 
and amount of credit being applied for (and being provided), the size of the regular 
repayments, the total cost of the credit and the consumers circumstances.
Given the checks that Next says it undertook and what it says these checks uncovered or 
didnt uncover, the relatively small credit limit offered (which at 5% gives a monthly 
repayment required from Miss S of £7.50) Im satisfied that Next undertook proportionate 
checks before agreeing to offer Miss S an account in November 2019.
Nexts decision to increase Miss S account credit limit in November 2020
As a lending relationship continues over time and the level of credit increases, as here, 
lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower to check whether theyre 
lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the consumer.
Given the checks that Next says it undertook and what it says these checks uncovered or 
didnt uncover, the relatively small credit limit increase offered (which at 5% gives a monthly 
repayment required from Miss S of £15.00) and how Next says Miss S was managing her 
account before November 2020 Im satisfied that it undertook proportionate checks before 
agreeing to offer Miss S an account credit limit increase in November 2020.
In May 2022 I can see that Next took the decision to suspend any further account credit limit 
increases and I think this was the correct thing for it to do. And for the sake of completeness 
I would add that Im satisfied that this decision doesnt, in itself, mean Next acted 
irresponsibly in November 2019 or November 2020.
I know that Miss S will be disappointed with my decision. But having considered everything 
that the parties have said and submitted Im simply not persuaded, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, that Next did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Paul Hamber
Ombudsman