DRN-3041155
The complaint
Mr T complains Skrill Limited (Skrill) unfairly returned payments from his account back to 
the senders banks. 
What happened
In 2017, Skrill returned funds back to source from Mr Ts account. In total there were five 
transactions Skrill attempted to do this for. For the first four, it sent all the money back to the 
senders account. And for the fifth transaction  which related to a separate sender - Skrill 
was only able to send back a portion of the funds. Just over 2,000 USD was returned in this 
way. 
Skrill says it did this because it had received information from the remitting banks that the 
senders had not authorised the transactions.
Mr T says Skrill had no basis to do this, as the funds were the legitimate proceeds of him 
selling crypto currency. Mr T says Skrills actions have led to him suffering significant 
financial loss as he would otherwise have re-invested the money into purchasing more 
crypto currency.   
One of our investigators looked into the matter, and in summary they found: 
The terms of the account allow Skrill to reverse payments if there is a justifiable 
reason. And given what had happened, Skrill could consider returning the funds. 
When receiving information the transactions werent authorised, they would have 
expected Skrill to investigate. This would include asking Mr T about the source of 
these funds - it doesnt appear Skrill did this. 
Mr T has shown these funds related to the sale of crypto currency.
So Mr T had in good faith changed his position to his detriment. As a result Mr T 
doesnt have the crypto currency nor the funds from the sales.   
Our investigator recommended Skrill return the funds it had returned to source from Mr Ts 
account. That 8% interest is paid from the time the funds were debited from Mr Ts account 
up until the date they are returned. And £250 is paid to Mr T as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. 
Skrill didnt agree with what our investigator said. In short it argues by being alerted the 
payments made into Mr Ts account were unauthorised, it reversed them in line with the 
account terms and conditions. Skrill say this is what it does when being put on alert that 
funds paid into one of its customer accounts could be the proceeds of deception. 
Mr T too did not agree with everything our investigator said. He says to properly put things 
right he should be paid for what he has truly lost out on. Mr T says the value of the crypto 
currency he would have bought has gone up substantively and the 8% interest our 
investigator suggested falls way short of making up for his loss.  
Our investigator explained they could not be certain Mr T would have reinvested the funds to 
buy further crypto currency. And that 8% interest is what our service awards if someone has 
been deprived of money they would otherwise have had but not for a business mistake. 
This matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive closely looked at Skrills terms and conditions and note it says the following in relation to 
reversing funds: 
You should be aware that receipt of funds to your Skrill Account does not 
necessarily mean that these transactions cannot be reversed. We reserve the right to 
reverse a payment in case the payer or the payers bank or payment service provider 
has charged back or otherwise reversed (or is reasonably likely to charge back or 
otherwise reverse) an upload or other payment which was used to fund the payment 
to you
Given what this term says, Im satisfied it provides a mandate for Skrill to have removed and 
then returned the five transactions back to source. But this term doesnt say anything about 
Skrill having to do anything to check the validity of the claim the sending bank is making. To 
my mind that could, in the circumstances of this complaint, cause an imbalance to Mr Ts 
rights and obligations under the contract. 
As I said earlier, I am tasked with reaching my decision based on whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. And though the above referenced term gives a 
mandate to Skrill to have done what it did, Im not persuaded it has led to a fair outcome 
here. 
Mr T has given this service information which amongst other things shows the crypto 
currency sales took place and discussions were had about this prior to the sale with the 
customers. Having seen this, Im satisfied Mr T genuinely sold his crypto currency and the 
funds paid into his account were the proceeds from that.
Given the nature of the requests the sending banks had made to retrieve its customers 
money, I would expect Skrill to have investigated whether it was appropriate to reverse the 
funds.  To that end, it doesnt appear as though Skrill asked Mr T about the source of these 
funds and whether he could show they were legitimately obtained. Nor has Skrill shown that 
it did anything else to investigate this matter. 
To my mind, Skrill should have done much more than it has here. Ive already said Im 
satisfied the money Mr T received were the proceeds of genuine crypto currency sales. So it 
follows that had Skrill investigated the matter properly, its most likely it would not have 
reversed the payments. 
So by selling the crypto currency Mr T has, in good faith, changed his position to his 
detriment in reliance on the money he had received for the transactions. In addition, Skrill 
wouldnt be able to just debit the account without his authorisation.For the sake of completeness, I note the term Skrill are relying on is very broad and doesnt 
give any examples of the type of reason it would use to reverse funds. Its also not clear if 
this term was brought to Mr Ts attention. And in any case, I question whether it clearly 
points to the reason Skrill have applied it here.  
So, because of the reasons above, I think Skrill have got things wrong and should put Mr T 
back in the position had it not. 
I note Mr T says he should be compensated for what he has lost out on given the current 
value of the crypto currency. Ive considered the documents Mr T has sent me to show he 
was buying and selling crypto currency. I dont doubt Mr T bought and sold crypto currency, 
but I cant be sure this is what he would have done with those funds. 
Mr Ts already told us - and Ive seen information which confirms this - that he opened the 
account and principally used it for another purpose to that of buying and selling crypto 
currency. I also note that purpose could mean Mr T gaining and losing money at a much 
higher risk. 
Ultimately, any investment carries a risk with it which cant reasonably be foreseen. Because 
of that I think the 8% simple interest our service recommends when someone has been 
deprived of funds they otherwise would have had, is fair compensation.  
I agree £250 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Mr T. Its clear hes spent a lot of time trying to get this matter resolved by looking into 
various dispute resolution avenues. This matter would also have caused him some worry. 
Putting things right
- Refund the money Skrill reversed from Mr Ts account. I make this to be 2073.51 USD.
-  Add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date the payments were reversed to the
date of settlement. If Skrill considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It
should also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
- Pay Mr T £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
him
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Skrill Limited to put things right in line with what Ive said 
above.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
Ketan Nagla 
Ombudsman
