DRN-3435862
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc incorrectly told her she had nothing 
further to pay when she terminated the conditional sale agreement she had with them. 
What happened
In May 2016 Miss M was supplied with a new car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander. She paid a deposit of £1,750, and the agreement was for £19,438, with 48 
monthly payments of £262.75 and a final payment of £9,075. 
In May 2020, when the agreement ended, Santander spoke to Miss M about her options. 
They explained that she could either return the car, or the final payment of £9,075 would 
need to be paid. Miss M said she wanted to return the car and Santander offered her a 
three-month deferral on the final payment, so collection could be arranged.
Miss M didnt arrange to return the car, and, in September 2020, arranged to finance a new 
vehicle. The dealership asked Santander how much Miss M owed on the agreement, and 
Santander told them £0 in error. Because of this, the dealership used the full value of the car 
as a deposit against the new vehicle. And Miss M entered into a new agreement with 
Santander to finance this.
Because the £9,075 hadnt been paid, and Miss M wasnt able to return the original car, 
Santander chased her for this payment. Miss M was unhappy with this and brought her 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, because Santander gave the incorrect figure to the dealership, 
Miss M has financed the new vehicle with a deposit she otherwise wouldnt have had. But 
this error doesnt mean that the final payment of £9,075 isnt due as Miss M can no longer 
return the original car. And, if she had, then the new agreement wouldve been for a higher 
payment than Miss M is currently paying.
So, taking everything into consideration, the investigator thought that the fairest solution was 
for Miss M to return the new vehicle, and the new agreement terminated with nothing further 
to pay. Which would put Miss M back in the situation she wouldve been if shed handed the 
car back to Santander in 2020. And the final payment of £9,075 wouldnt need to be paid, 
with any adverse entries on Miss Ms credit file removed as a result.
Both Santander and Miss M agreed with the investigator. However, Miss M subsequently 
asked Santander if she could keep the new vehicle for a further three months to give her the 
time, thought and consideration she needed to find a replacement.
Santander thought this was unreasonable  Miss M had the use of the new vehicle and was 
paying a much lower amount than she would otherwise have done had she handed the 
original car back and taken out the new agreement without a deposit. So they offered her the 
option to provide them with a reasonable timeframe for the delivery of a replacement vehicle, 
so the collection of the original car could be arranged, or arrange a payment plan to repay 
the £9,075 in affordable instalments.
Miss M didnt respond to this offer directly, and instead asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss M was supplied with a van under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. And, given that both parties accepted the 
investigators view, but havent been able to arrange a mutually agreeable collection date for 
the car, my decision will concentrate on what I consider to be a fair remedy.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, its fair to say that Miss M was aware from May 2016 that 
the agreement included a final payment of £9,075. And, based on the conversation she had 
with Santander in May 2020, she also knew that this payment needed to be paid. So, when 
the dealership told her there was nothing further to pay, and the full value of the car could be 
used as a deposit, she wouldve reasonably known this to be incorrect.
As a result, Miss M is paying substantially less for the vehicle shes currently driving that she 
would otherwise have done so had Santander not provided the incorrect settlement figure in 
error. As Santander provided both the original and new agreement, theyve been able to 
confirm that, without a deposit, Miss M would be paying around £455 a month under the new 
agreement, rather than the £267 she currently is.
Miss M has argued that Santander are not suffering any further loss by her keeping the new 
vehicle for an extended period, while she finds a replacement. But I cant agree this is the 
case. Not only is the new vehicle reducing in value due to its age and the mileage Miss M is 
doing each month, she is also benefitting (and Santander are losing) by her paying around 
£188 a month less than she should be  a total of around £3,760 from September 2020 to 
April 2022. So, I dont think that Santander have been unreasonable in not allowing Miss M 
an extended period of time to find a replacement.
The investigator first shared their view in writing on 16 February 2022. And, allowing for the 
time Miss M will have to either accept or reject my final decision, she will have had the three 
months she asked for to find a replacement. Given this, Im not minded to allow Miss M any 
further time to find a replacement.
I also think that the offer Santander made Miss M  to allow her to keep the new vehicle and 
pay the £9,075 on an affordable payment plan  was reasonable in the circumstances. 
However, as Miss M didnt accept this, I think its only fair that Santander are now allowed to 
recover the car.putting things right
So, Santander should:
end the new agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Miss M;
write off the £9,075 final payment owing under the original agreement; and
remove any adverse entries from Miss Ms credit file relating to the £9,075.
I would also advise both parties that, if Santander and Miss M are unable to agree a 
collection date for the return of the car, Santander would be within their right to take action to 
repossess the car.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman