DRN-4312212
The complaint
Mr M has complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) unfairly declined 
his claim. 
What happened
Mr M has a travel insurance policy, underwritten by AIG. Mr and Mrs M were due to travel 
abroad when their flight was delayed. So Mr M contacted AIG to make a claim for 
abandonment. 
AIG reviewed the claim and said his circumstances werent covered as the reason for the 
flight delay was due to ground operation issues at the airport and this wasnt covered under 
the policy. 
Mr M complained and unhappy with AIGs response, referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think AIG had incorrectly or unfairly 
declined the claim. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
And so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The relevant section in the policy is section 10  travel delay. 
This says AIG will pay a claim: if the departure of the public transport is delayed by at 
least 12 hoursor if you abandon the tripdue to the delay of your outward flightfor more 
than 12 hours beyond the booked departure time as a result ofstrike or industrial 
actionadverse weather conditionsmechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft, 
coach, train or sea vessel
Mr M provided a letter to confirm the reason for the delay was ground operation issues at the 
airport. But he would only be covered under the above section for abandonment if his flight 
was delayed for one of the reasons listed in the policy as set out above. As there is no 
evidence that the flight delay was due to strike or industrial action, adverse weather 
conditions or mechanical breakdown of the mode of transport, there is no cover for Mr Ms 
circumstances under this section of the policy.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Ms circumstances and the loss of his holiday but I cant fairly ask AIG 
to pay the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman