DRN-3624985
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy about the way in which Sainsburys Bank Plc handled her chargeback 
claim.
What happened
In January 2021 Miss J contacted Sainsburys to raise a chargeback claim in relation to 
goods purchased from a merchant for £645.
Sainsburys sent Miss J a chargeback form and asked her to return this together with her 
supporting documents.
Miss J sent the chargeback form and her supporting documents back to Sainsburys, but it 
wrote to her again asking for her form and supporting documents.
Miss J complained to Sainsburys. She was unhappy that she couldnt send her documents 
by email, and that she hadnt received an acknowledgement that her documents had been 
received. Miss J was unhappy that shed had to stay on the phone to Sainsburys whilst her 
complaint was logged, and that shed had to wait a long time to be put through to a 
representative.
Miss Js chargeback claim was successful, and the transaction was refunded. In its final 
response, Sainsburys advised Miss J that it wasnt upholding her complaint.
Unhappy with the response, Miss J brought her complaint to this service. Miss J says she 
isnt complaining about the outcome of the chargeback, but about the way in which 
Sainsburys handled both the chargeback and her subsequent complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Sainsburys had made any 
mistakes in the way it handled the chargeback.
Miss J didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys didnt supply the goods in this case. The supplier was a furniture retailer. But 
where goods are paid for with a payment card, the card provider may be able to request a 
refund under the chargeback scheme. This scheme provides a mechanism for resolving 
disputes where, for example, the goods arent delivered or arent of satisfactory quality. Strict 
time limits apply under the chargeback scheme.
This service takes the view that the card issuer should  as a matter of good practice  seek 
a chargeback where there are reasonable prospects of obtaining a refund. If the chargeback 
fails, Id expect the card issuer to consider a claim under section 75. In this case, Miss Js 
claim was resolved through chargeback, so theres no need to consider section 75.
Ive taken account of everything Miss J has said about the way in which Sainsburys handled 
the chargeback claim. The detailed background to the complaint is well known to both 
parties so Ill only provide an overview of some of the key events here.
Miss J is unhappy that Sainsburys required her to send her documents by post. She feels 
that this is both an insecure and time-consuming method of communication. Looking at what 
happened here, I dont think that Miss Js chargeback claim was significantly delayed or 
jeopardised as a result of the requirement to send things by post. I appreciate that it mustve 
been frustrating for Miss J when Sainsburys asked her to send her documents when she had 
already done so. I think its likely that this was due to Miss Js documents and Sainsburys 
letter crossing in the post. Whilst I agree that the likelihood of this happening would be less if 
documents could be sent by email, I dont think Sainsburys did anything wrong by sending a 
chasing letter to Miss J, particularly considering the strict time limits which apply to 
chargeback claims.
In relation to the security (or otherwise) of sending documents by post, I understand the 
point that Miss J makes. Sainsburys has said that it doesnt think email is a secure method 
of communication and says its developing an online portal which will allow customers to 
upload documents. Ultimately, its not for this service to tell a business what its procedures 
should be, or to ask it to change its existing procedures. However, in this case, Miss Js 
chargeback claim and documents were received in time.
Miss J is unhappy that she had to wait a long time before being connected to a customer 
representative when she called to make her complaint. Shes also unhappy that she had to 
remain on the phone whilst her complaint was logged. Miss J feels that Sainsburys could 
manage call wait times more effectively if it employed more staff and provided other 
communication channels. 
Im unable to comment on staffing levels because I dont hold this information. I cant fairly 
hold Sainsburys responsible for the fact that there were other customers calling on the same 
day that Miss J called. I can see that the telephone lines are open for several hours, so if 
Miss J didnt want to wait (or was unbale to wait due to work commitments) she could have 
called back at a different time. I can also see that Sainsburys offered several different 
communication channels, such as email, messaging via the online banking service or 
sending a letter.
Miss J is unhappy with Sainsburys communication with her during the chargeback process. I 
can see that Sainsburys write to Miss J on 25 January 2022 confirming the chargeback 
details and explaining what would happen next. In its letter dated 15 February 2022, 
Sainsburys advised Miss J that it would update her in 60 days. I can see that Sainsburys 
wrote to Miss J in April advising her that the chargeback claim had been successful.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think Sainsburys has made an error or done 
anything wrong. Im satisfied that Sainsburys followed its chargeback process correctly and 
provided Miss J with adequate information and updates on her claim.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the claim. I wont be asking Sainsburys to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman