DRN-2675431
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain that Stonebridge Mortgage Solutions Ltd failed to record their 
answers correctly when assisting them with a policy application for life and critical illness 
cover  they say this has caused them financial loss and distress.
All references to Stonebridge will include all information from, and actions of, its appointed 
representative.
What happened
On 5 March 2019 Mrs and Mr C were provided with mortgage advice by a Stonebridge 
adviser (the adviser). At the same time they were sold two joint life and critical illness 
policies. These were term assurance policies which provided total cover of £125,000. The 
adviser completed the application forms based on answers given by Mrs and Mr C. These 
were submitted to the insurer on the same day. Shortly after, the policies began. 
Unfortunately, Mr C was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS) in July 2019, so he 
submitted claims under each policy. In June 2020 the insurer declined his claims on the 
basis that Mr C hadnt declared a family history of MS. It also noted that he failed to disclose 
a personal history of epilepsy. The insurer voided the policies in respect of Mr C but offered 
to allow them to continue for Mrs C.
Mrs and Mr C complained to Stonebridge. They said its adviser neglected to record the 
information correctly. And they put their full trust in the adviser to gather all the relevant facts 
for their application. Mr C said he remembers talking about his mothers MS as this was 
something he would not have overlooked when discussing family medical history. Mrs and 
Mr C said the mistake could only have happened because they werent asked the relevant 
questions or the answers werent correctly recorded.
Stonebridge rejected the complaint. It said that its adviser would have asked all of the 
questions as set out in the insurers application. And that whilst it deeply sympathised with 
Mr Cs circumstances, it didnt consider its adviser was made aware of either his epilepsy or 
his family history of MS.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He considered Mrs and Mr C had an 
opportunity to check the answers were correct when the application was sent to them by the 
insurer. And he didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show the adviser recorded the 
answers they gave incorrectly.
Mrs and Mr C disagreed. They said that the advisers failure in the fact finding and 
application process completely removed the potential for them to consider alternative 
insurance providers. Mrs and Mr C said they cant be sure all the questions were asked as 
the adviser recorded these on the computer which they didnt have sight of. So they asked 
for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that Im very sorry to hear about Mr Cs recent diagnosis of MS. I 
realise this complaint is being made under very difficult circumstances for him and his family. 
Ill also mention at this point that Ive carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs and 
Mr C, but I wont be addressing every single point theyve raised. Ive instead concentrated 
on the issues I think are central to the outcome of their complaint. And having reviewed 
everything, Im not asking Stonebridge to do anything further. Ill explain why
The fact the insurer voided the policy in respect of Mr C isnt something Stonebridge has any 
influence over. The responsibilities of the adviser were to give advice and to facilitate the 
application being made to the insurer. Its the latter Mrs and Mr C says Stonebridges adviser 
failed to do correctly. I can appreciate what Mrs and Mr C says about what they recall about 
the meeting they had with the adviser. Notably, they say they did discuss Mr Cs family 
history of MS and/ or they werent asked the following:
Health  Ever
Have you ever had any neurological condition or visual disturbance, for example 
epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, cerebral palsy, motor neuron 
disease, Parkinsons disease, optic neuritis?
Family History 
Have any of your natural parents, brothers or sisters, before the age of 60, had any 
of the followingMultiple Sclerosis
In response to both these questions it is recorded as No. So the issue Mrs and Mr C have 
with the advisers actions is that they were never asked a question relating to the family 
history or about epilepsy. Nonetheless, Mr C says he does remember at some point during 
the meeting discussing his mothers diagnosis of MS with the adviser. Mrs and Mr C also say 
they didnt see what was recorded on the computer screen where the application questions 
were set out, so didnt have an opportunity to see what the adviser was recording.
I accept that it might be the case Mrs and Mr C were unable to review everything captured 
by the adviser on the day of their meeting with him. And its difficult to say for certain what 
exactly was discussed during the meeting. But for me to find Stonebridge liable for the loss 
of Mr Cs ability to claim would require me to conclude that 1) the Stonebridge adviser failed 
to ask them the correct questions and 2) the insurer made its offer based solely on those 
answers.
In this case, whilst the adviser completed the application on Mrs and Mr Cs behalf, a copy of 
the information disclosed was sent to them for checking by the insurer. This was sent to 
them on the same day of the meeting on the 5 March 2019. The document they were sent is 
called a Checking Your Details (CYD) form. A CYD form is sent to applicants to account for 
the possibility of data being inputted incorrectly. This doesnt determine that mistakes by an 
adviser is acceptable  it simply provides an extra opportunity for the applicant to be certain 
that his or her medical details are portrayed accurately to the insurer. 
I can see Mrs and Mr C were given the opportunity to provide their medical history directly to 
the insurer when they were sent the CYD form on 5 March. In the CYD form the insurer said:
What you need to do now: 1. Please read the enclosed Personal Details Document carefully and check the
answers youve given us. You should keep this in a safe place. 
2.Please tick the correct box on the Checking Your Details form.
If you have any changes to make, please also provide the relevant information in the box 
provided.
3. Then read the declaration carefully and sign and date the Checking Your Details
form, and return it to us as soon as possible. This needs to be done whether changes 
have been made or not and even if the policy has started. 
This statement makes it clear that Mrs and Mr C had the responsibility to make amendments 
on the CYD form if there were any mistakes. And this form gave them the opportunity to 
correct any errors the adviser may have made. I note that Mrs and Mr C said following the 
claim, they were sent a copy of the application and were shocked to find the MS and 
epilepsy werent mentioned. But they had the opportunity to check their application was 
correct when they were sent the CYD and the personal details documents before the policy 
started.
Its unfortunate that Mrs and Mr C didnt pick up on any inaccuracies. But if the adviser had 
made a mistake, which I cant say for certain he did, the adviser is not responsible for the 
loss of the ability to claim now as they (Mrs and Mr C) were given the opportunity to check 
their applications were corrected when they were sent the CYD form. So I cannot award any 
compensation against Stonebridge for Mr Cs inability to now make a claim. It also follows 
that I cant hold it responsible for Mrs and Mr C not seeking alternative cover before Mr Cs 
diagnosis of MS.
Mrs and Mr C have said they were relying on the advisers expertise to get the form correct. 
But I dont think any such expertise was required in respect of how the questions were 
answered and recorded. The adviser was recording statements of facts which were based 
on answers given by Mrs and Mr C. And as Ive said if any mistakes were made, Mrs and 
Mr C did have an opportunity to correct these before their policy began. 
For all these reasons, whilst I understand Mrs and Mr C are in a very difficult situation, Im 
not upholding their complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman