DRN-3469669
The complaint
Mr H is a sole trader. He has complained that Savage and Holdsworth Limited mis-sold his 
business interruption insurance policy as they didnt tell him an exclusion for pandemics had 
been added at the renewal. 
What happened
Mr H held a business interruption insurance policy through Savage and Holdsworth. Savage 
and Holdsworth contacted Mr H on 27 February 2020 to let him know that his policy was due 
for renewal on 18 March. Mr H said he reviewed the information hed been sent and queried 
some areas of the cover. However, he wasnt told that an exclusion for pandemics had been 
added to his policy. Mr H found out about the exclusion when he tried to claim on his policy 
after his business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. Mr H said he also found out that the policy had changed from a salon policy to a 
more generic shop policy. 
Savage and Holdsworth accepted they had made an error in not providing the update which 
informed policyholders of the exclusion but said it was for Mr H to request a new policy 
document if he wanted one. They said the exclusion hadnt made a difference as Mr Hs 
previous policy wouldnt have covered his claim even if the exclusion hadnt been added. 
Savage and Holdsworth also said that Mr H wouldnt have been able to get cover for the 
pandemic as by the time his policy was due for renewal it was a known event. 
Unhappy with Savage and Holdsworths response, Mr H brought his complaint to our 
service. He said hed shown that he was risk adverse and had queried aspects of cover at 
the time of renewal. He said that if hed been made aware of the exclusion and that it was no 
longer a salon specific policy, it would have prompted him to look for other cover. He said 
hed previously understood he was covered for any interruption to his business. Mr H added 
that he thought Savage and Holdsworth had failed to advise him on how his business 
interruption cover worked and they hadnt recommended a suitable policy. 
Mr H queried why he hadnt been given the option by Savage and Holdsworth to buy a 
different policy. He said he couldnt be sure exactly which policy he would have taken out, 
but he noted that one from another insurer had caught his eye and believes that this policy 
would have covered his claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and recommended Savage and Holdsworth 
pay Mr H £100 compensation. He thought Savage and Holdsworth had made an error when 
renewing the cover but, had this information been provided, he didnt think Mr H would have 
bought a policy which covered his claim. 
Savage and Holdsworth accepted the investigators recommendation to resolve the 
complaint. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He didnt think £100 
was sufficient to rectify the impact of Savage and Holdsworths error and maintained that he 
would likely have bought a policy which provided cover.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and resulting Government action has impacted Mr Hs 
business. However, Im not going to require Savage and Holdsworth to compensate Mr H for 
the full extent of his losses caused by the interruption to his business. Ill explain why.
Mr H has made a number of detailed points. Im not going to respond to each point within 
this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central issues to this 
complaint. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy, a firm 
should specify a customers demands and needs and propose a policy that is consistent with 
them. As this was an advised sale Savage and Holdsworth needed to take reasonable steps 
to ensure the suitability of their advice as well as providing information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. 
It's not in dispute that Savage and Holdsworth made an error in not providing Mr H with 
information to show that an exclusion had been added to his policy. Moreover, given that 
Covid-19 was known about at the time of the renewal, I think it would have been prudent of 
them to discuss that aspect of the policy coverage with Mr H. I accept that Mr H didnt 
specifically indicate that disease cover was relevant to him, but I understand that this is 
because he thought his policy covered any interruption to his business and he didnt realise 
his policy didnt provide cover. 
I recognise that Savage and Holdsworth believed that no policies would provide cover for the 
Covid-19 pandemic, and that they didnt have any policies available to them which would 
have provided cover. For these reasons, I dont believe that Savage and Holdsworth should 
have recommended a different policy to Mr H. But their error meant that Mr H wasnt 
provided with important information about the policy he bought. 
While Ive noted Savage and Holdsworths point that Mr Hs previous policy wouldnt have 
provided cover, I can see that he engaged with the renewal process and queried aspects of 
his cover. So I do think if the missing information about the exclusion had been provided, it 
would most likely have prompted him to consider alternative cover. 
Ive also noted Mr Hs point that he would have looked for cover elsewhere if hed known the 
policy had changed from a salon policy to a shop policy but Im not persuaded by this as in 
an email at the time of renewal Mr H refers to being able to buy a shop policy elsewhere. 
This indicates that Mr H would have been satisfied with a shop policy if it met the rest of his 
needs. However, I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint as Im 
persuaded that Mr H would have looked elsewhere if hed known his policy didnt provide 
cover for Covid-19. 
Mr H said his research leads him to believe that he would have been able to buy a policy to 
cover a pandemic at the time of his renewal, but he hasnt provided me with anything to 
persuade me of that. I think its unlikely that Mr H would have been able to buy a bespoke 
policy that was guaranteed to provide cover for the pandemic.
I accept that its possible that Mr H might have bought a policy which ultimately was found to 
cover the circumstances of his claim. However, on the balance of probabilities, I am not 
persuaded that would have been the case. There are several relevant factors: At the time of Mr Hs renewal, it was unclear which policies would provide cover in 
the context of the Covid-19 pandemic and the Governments related actions, so Mr H 
would have been switching to a different policy in a context of significant uncertainty. 
Many insurers had started writing exclusions into their policies to make it clear that 
cover wasnt provided, and many others didnt believe their policies would provide 
cover. 
Savage and Holdsworth believed that no policies provided cover for the Covid-19    
pandemic and would have advised Mr H of this. 
Other policies might not have been as suitable for the rest of Mr Hs needs. 
Mr H has referred to a specific policy which he believes would have met his claim. However, 
I think his reference to this has been made with the benefit of hindsight. I have to make a 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened at the time of the renewal. In 
this particular case, given the uncertainty around the cover required for the pandemic and 
that many insurers didnt believe their policies would provide cover, I dont think its more 
likely than not that Mr H would have bought a policy which covered his claim. 
 
I do think Savage and Holdsworth caused Mr H some distress and inconvenience in not 
sending him the updated documents. I realise Mr H doesnt think £100 is sufficient but Im 
satisfied that its a fair and reasonable amount for Savage and Holdsworth to pay to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I recognise this isnt the answer Mr H was hoping for, given the significant impact of the 
pandemic on his business. However, while Savage and Holdsworth did make a mistake, I 
dont think I can fairly require them to compensate Mr H for all of his losses.
My final decision
My final decision is that Savage and Holdsworth Limited should pay Mr H £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman