DRN-3263419
The complaint
Mr M has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Advantage Gold account and a fee-paying Advantage Private account (later 
rebranded as a Black account) in March 2002 and February 2009 respectively.
In summary, Mr M says that the accounts were mis-sold because he was never made aware 
that he could have a fee-free account. Mr M also says that accounts were not suitable for 
him because hes not needed the benefits that they came with.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that the accounts had 
been mis-sold. Mr M disagreed so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I should also explain that where matters are 
in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I have to decide what I think was 
most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Advantage Gold account
Mr M says that he was not presented with the option of a fee-free account when the account 
was sold to him. But Mr M already had a fee-free account at the time and had done so for 
over 20 years by that point. As such, I think that Mr M was aware in March 2002 that fee-free 
accounts were generally available to him, and that he didnt have to have a fee-paying 
account if he didnt want one. 
Mr M says that when the account was sold to him, he had approached NatWest as he sadly 
needed to take out a loan to pay for his fathers funeral. NatWest has provided a copy of a 
customer contact note from the time and the note confirms what Mr M says - that hed 
approached NatWest to borrow money to pay for funeral expenses. Indeed, the notes from 
the sale say that Mr M agreed to upgrade his account specifically so that he could get a 
reduced interest rate on that loan. I also think its the case that if Mr M had been mis-led into 
thinking he had to have a fee-paying account to obtain a loan, I wouldve expected him to 
have downgraded his account back to a fee-free account as soon as he paid off the loan, 
rather than go on to keep it for many years and even upgrade to an even more expensive 
account.
In March 2002, the Advantage Gold account cost £6 per month, and provided mostly 
banking benefits such as reduced interest rates on loans, overdrafts and mortgages. The 
main insurance benefit at the time was purchase protection cover, although it did also offer 
extended warranty cover and complimentary travel insurance if the goods / trip were 
purchased using a Gold card. It didnt provide many of the insurance benefits that have since 
become available on packaged accounts, such as breakdown cover and mobile phone 
insurance.
Overall, I dont think the Advantage Gold account was sold on an advised basis. For 
example, I cant see anything to suggest that NatWest discussed Mr Ms insurance needs or 
recommended the account to Mr M because it met such needs. I should also point out that 
simply explaining that Mr M could obtain a lower interest rate on a loan by taking out an 
Advantage Gold account and then asking if Mr M would like to upgrade his account does not 
amount to it being an advised sale. As I think the account was sold on a non-advised basis, 
this meant that NatWest didnt have to check if the account was right for Mr M. However, 
NatWest did have to provide Mr M with important information about the account, so that he 
could decide this for himself. 
The notes from the time indicate that the cost and benefits (including that it offered a lower 
interest rate on personal loans) were explained to him and Mr M was happy to proceed with 
the sale with that information. 
As such, I think that Mr M was given at least some information about the account for him to 
have a good appreciation of what he was agreeing to. And although its possible that 
NatWest didnt give him all of the important information it shouldve about the account, Ive 
not seen anything about Mr Ms circumstances that makes me think he wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the upgrade, had he been given even more information about the account. 
Because of this, I dont think that the Advantage Gold account was mis-sold.
Advantage Private account
Mr M upgraded his Advantage Gold account to an Advantage Private account in February 
2009. 
Mr M has not said too much about this upgrade, as his testimony seems to mostly relate to 
the events in 2002. Nevertheless, looking at everything that is available, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that the account was presented in a way that Mr M thought he had no 
choice in the matter. For example, if it was the case that Mr M thought he had to have a fee-
paying account, then I wouldve expected him to stay on the cheaper Advantage Gold 
account, rather than agree to an even more expensive account. I also say this especially as 
NatWest has sent Mr M large amounts of correspondence about the account over the years 
- either informing him of changes to the account or inviting him to check that the account was 
still suitable for his circumstances. And despite all of these letters, Mr M chose to keep the 
account for many years, rather than go about changing it  which to me suggests that Mr M 
was happy to have the account  at least initially anyway. 
Again, there is no evidence to say that the account was recommended to Mr M. Therefore, 
like the Advantage Gold account, NatWest was not obliged to check if it was right for him. So 
essentially it was up to Mr M to decide whether it was worth taking out, and whether it 
continued to be worthwhile having.
Although evidence is limited from the time of the sale, I note that Mr M took out a £20,000 
loan around the time he upgraded his account. And he applied (and was eventually 
successful) to increase his overdraft limit to £3,700. 
Mr M had taken out a number of loans, overdrafts and a mortgage during the time he held 
the Advantage Gold account. So Im satisfied that Mr M was aware he didnt need to have an 
Advantage Private account to obtain such products. However, I note that one of the features 
of the account was that it provided a £250 interest free overdraft facility, with preferential 
rates of interest on overdrawn balances above that amount, up to the agreed limit. It also 
provided preferential interest rates on loans as well.
Therefore, I think its most likely that Mr M agreed to the account largely for the savings he 
could potentially receive when using his overdraft and on the amount of interest hed have to 
pay on his loan. I think this is the case particularly as both products were for relatively large 
amounts for the respective products. I appreciate that Mr M mayve had little need or interest 
in the other features on the account. But given that it came as a package, he was unable to pick and choose what it came with. And it seems that Mr M was prepared to upgrade to the 
account, and pay the monthly fee, in the knowledge that hed only be able to benefit from 
some of the features on the account. 
Again, I cant be sure what information Mr M was given during the upgrade as both he and 
NatWest have provided little information about the sale. But I think it was likely that he was 
at least told about the cost and some of the benefits that it provided, and it was this 
information that led him to decide to upgrade his account again. 
Ive also not seen anything that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to 
the upgrade, had he been given more information about it. I say this bearing in mind what I 
said above about NatWest sending him numerous reminders of the benefits in the years he 
had the account and he still chose to keep it.
Therefore, Ive not seen enough to say that the account was mis-sold. In essence, I think Mr 
M agreed to both upgrades, not because he thought he had no choice in the matter, but 
more likely because he was attracted to the banking benefits that they provided. And 
although Mr M has made it clear that he had little need for the insurance benefits, I dont 
think those benefits were the reason why he agreed to either account in the first place. 
From looking at everything that Mr M has said, it seems to be the case that, with the benefit 
of hindsight, he now thinks that the two packaged accounts have been poor value for money. 
But that in itself doesnt mean that the accounts were mis-sold.
As such, based on everything I have seen, I dont think it would be appropriate in the 
circumstances to instruct NatWest to refund Mr Ms account fees. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons give above, I dont think that the Advantage Gold and Advantage 
Private accounts were mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman