DRN-3277068
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the information given to her by GDFC Assets Limited in relation to a 
Green Deal finance agreement.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs D was in the process of purchasing a property. The property had been 
previously repossessed, and had apparently been damaged by the previous owner. Mrs D 
discovered the property had solar panels fixed to the roof and that these were subject to a 
finance agreement provided via the Green Deal scheme. Mrs D and her solicitor spoke with 
GDFC, the administrator of the finance agreement, to determine the situation around this 
agreement. GDFC provided a settlement figure for the finance agreement, of around £3,500.
Mrs D then called GDFC on 28 August 2019. She asked whether, if the settlement figure 
was paid, she would own the solar panels. The call hander confirmed that she would. Mrs D 
then asked whether the power that was generated by the panels, or any payment relating to 
this generated power, would come to her directly or whether the panels would be obsolete. 
The call hander said:
if there is a feed-in-tariff to the solar panels, ok obviously you would benefit from 
that, you should benefit from that, and you should receive any payments which are 
due from the feed-in-tariff.
Mrs D called in again the next day and spoke to a different call handler. Largely it seems her 
intention in this call was to find out whether the panels were working. The call handler 
explained that, because Mrs D was not yet a party to the agreement, only limited information 
could be given. Mrs D then had a further conversation with another call handler, who 
explained that they could only speak in general terms and everything had to go through the 
solicitors at that time.
The following day, the solicitor for the seller of the property spoke to GDFC. In this call, 
which happened to be with the first call handler Mrs D had spoken to, the call handler tried to 
explain that it was necessary to find out who actually owned the feed-in-tariff (FIT). However, 
he was cut off by the solicitor who explained she only wanted to know the outstanding 
balance on the loan. 
Mrs D completed the purchase of the property and paid off the outstanding balance on the 
Green Deal loan. However, she then discovered that the rights to the FIT were owned by a 
third party. 
Mrs D complained to GDFC that they had provided her with incorrect information. She had 
been told that, if there was a FIT she would benefit from this. But although there was a FIT, it 
turned out that she wasnt entitled to benefit from this. 
GDFC did not uphold the focus of her complaint. They said that it was only responsible for 
administering the finance agreement and would not have known whether Mrs D owned the 
FIT rights or not. GDFC said they had made the sellers solicitor aware to the need to 
confirm this ownership, and the solicitor should have disclosed this to Mrs D. GDFC did 
provide Mrs D with some compensation in relation to complaint handling issues, but this is 
not the subject of her current complaint. 
Mrs D was unhappy with GDFCs response and brought her main complaint to this service. 
However, our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld either. She agreed that 
GDFC could have been clearer, but as they had not said Mrs D owned the FIT rights, she 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs D remained unsatisfied and her complaint 
was passed to me for a decision.
Having considered the evidence provided, I thought it was clear that GDFC had provided 
Mrs D with incorrect, or at best incomplete, information when she spoke to them on 
28 August 2019. And I explained to GDFC that I was inclined to uphold this complaint as a 
result. 
I noted that in the call of 28 August, the call handler had said, "if there was a [FIT]" Mrs D 
would receive any payments which were due. In actuality there was a FIT, but Mrs D is not 
entitled to these benefits. 
I did note that GDFC may not have been able to know who the owner of the FIT rights was. 
But I explained that this is exactly the information that should've been given to Mrs D in this 
call. I explained that the call handler seems to have appreciated this himself when trying to 
explain the situation to the seller's solicitor. It seems he realised his previous explanation 
was incorrect and, even though the solicitor was not enquiring about the FIT, pro-actively 
attempted to correct the error he appreciated that he'd made in his initial explanation.
So, I think an error was made and that Mrs D was provided with incorrect (or at best 
incomplete) information.
I explained that I appreciated that GDFC did make some comments in the other calls about 
being able to provide generic information only. But it did not need to confirm the exact 
position with regards to this FIT. It merely needed to provide the correct generic information 
 i.e. to make it clear to Mrs D that the FIT rights might be owned by a third party. 
I also didn't think the call handler's attempt to rectify his previous error was adequate. I don't 
think he was able to provide a full explanation to the seller's solicitor and neither did he make 
her aware that Mrs D had previously been provided with incorrect information, so it was 
difficult to say she was on notice to pass this onto Mrs D. I think the call handler was aware 
incorrect information had been given to Mrs D, and he could have easily corrected this with 
an email to Mrs D's own solicitor  whose contact details GDFC already had.
I explained that I thought this had likely caused Mrs D to enter the purchase of her property 
on terms that she otherwise would not have. I think that if she had known she would not 
have been entitled to the FIT payments, she would have negotiated a reduced balance to 
take into account the cost of acquiring these rights. 
As such, I explained that I thought the correct outcome would be for GDFC to pay Mrs D the 
amount it will cost her to purchase the FIT rights off the current owner. I also thought GDFC 
should pay Mrs D the amount she would have received had she purchased these rights in 
2019 (i.e. any payments the current owner of the rights has received since Mrs D bought the 
property), with interest added to these amounts at a rate of 8% simple per annum.
GDFC did not agree with this however, saying that the issue over the solar panels and 
finance agreement had been left until a late stage of the house purchasing process and that 
GDFC did not think there was enough time to re-negotiate the purchase price of the property. GDFC referred to the house purchasing process in Scotland and said that once an 
offer had been accepted a legal commitment has been made. GDFC suggested that the 
issues that arose were as a result of the solicitors involved in the house purchase and 
provided a call recording from June 2020 where Mrs D seems to have agreed with this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the opinion that GDFC did not provide Mrs D with complete and correct 
information. Whilst they may not have been able to provide Mrs D with the information she 
did actually need  i.e. whether she would benefit from the FIT rights  they should have 
explained this to her so that she was able to make the appropriate enquiries. Instead, they 
led Mrs D to believe that it was most likely that she would benefit from having the solar 
panels. And they did not do enough in my view to rectify this mistake. 
What remains is to think about the consequences of this. 
It is true that by the time Mrs D contacted GDFC, the purchase process for the property in 
question had progressed significantly. 
It doesnt seem that full information on the property had been provided or obtained during 
the early stages of this process. It doesnt seem for instance that an energy performance 
certificate was provided, and it is likely that this certificate would have noted that the property 
was subject to lending under the Green Deal scheme. Had this happened, it is likely 
enquiries could have been made at an earlier stage than they were. And I do note GDFCs 
comments over the actions of the solicitors. 
However, I am not able to comment on the actions of Mrs Ds or the sellers solicitors. All I 
am able to assess is whether the actions of GDFC have caused Mrs D detriment that 
otherwise could have been avoided. 
Additionally, even if Mrs D had made the enquiries she did, and been provided the 
information from GDFC that she was, earlier in the process, I dont think this would have 
altered the situation. Mrs D proceeded on the basis of the information that she was given. 
And this information was ultimately not correct, so I think a similar outcome may have arisen 
had this information been provided earlier.
Regardless, whilst it may be that the solicitors involved could have done more to identify and 
deal with the relevant issues earlier, the question is whether  in the circumstances that did 
exist  GDFC caused Mrs D to suffer detriment. 
At the point of deciding whether or not to pay off or take responsibility for the finance 
agreement, Mrs D contacted GDFC to determine whether she would benefit from the solar 
panels. The information she received led her to believe that she most likely would. And this 
information was incorrect. 
Had GDFC explained that the FIT rights might possibly be owned by a third-party, I think 
Mrs D would most likely have made further enquiries to confirm this before agreeing to settle 
or take responsibility for the finance agreement. Alternatively, she may have obtained an 
appropriate undertaking from the seller that it would pay for these rights to be (re)acquired. 
I do note that an offer on the property had been accepted, and that completion of the 
purchase was imminent. Indeed, Mrs D had already transferred the funds for the purchase to her solicitor. But this does not mean she was obliged to continue with the purchase if new 
material information about the property was discovered. And even if she was, she may not 
have been required to continue with that purchase on predefined terms. 
Even if it would not have been possible for Mrs D to have negotiated a different purchase 
price, I consider it would likely have been possible for her to have required the seller to pay 
off the finance agreement prior to the sale, or for the seller to have provided a relevant 
undertaking in relation to the ownership of the FIT rights. 
And even if this were not possible, and Mrs D could only have pulled out of the purchase at a 
cost to her, GDFC has not demonstrated that such a cost would be more than Mrs D paid to 
settle the finance agreement and/or obtain the FIT rights.
I am not persuaded that the content of a call between Mrs D and GDFC in June 2020 has a 
significant bearing on the current matter. Whilst it seems from this call that Mrs D may have 
unhappy with the service provided by her solicitor, and she said she did not wish to raise a 
complaint about GDFC at that time, it is evident that upon reviewing the events she is 
unhappy about the information provided by GDFC and that has now led to her making this 
complaint. 
The call merely confirms that the purchase process was advanced at the point when the 
issues over the presence of the solar panels and finance agreement became apparent. But 
this is not in dispute. What is in dispute is whether Mrs Ds reliance on the incorrect 
information GDFC gave her, has caused her detriment. And, in the circumstances of this 
case, I consider that it has. As such, I consider Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
To put things right, GDFC Assets Limited should determine the sum required to purchase 
the FIT rights back from the current owner of those rights. And GDFC should pay this sum to 
Mrs D.
GDFC should also determine the amount of money Mrs D would have received from having 
the FIT rights, if these had been passed to her in September 2019. GDFC should then add 
interest, at a rate of 8% simple per annum, to this sum from the date(s) it would have been 
paid to Mrs D to the date of settlement. GDFC should pay this entire sum to Mrs D. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. GDFC Assets Limited should put things right in 
the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman