DRN-2491208
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was given incorrect information by Cofunds Limited (trading as 
Aegon) when he asked about selling his holdings in two funds he held in his ISA. As a result, 
he feels he lost out financially. 
What happened
On 13 March 2020 Mr B telephoned Aegon and asked details about the process for 
withdrawing funds from Aegons platform. He also asked about how much he would receive 
at the point he decided to liquidate his holdings. He asked specifically if the value he saw on 
the screen was the value he would receive, and he was told that was correct. 
Mr B instructed Aegon to sell his holdings on 16 March 2020, a few days later. At this point, 
he believed he would receive over £26,330 as that was the value showing on his screen at 
the time he instructed Aegon to sell. Instead he received just over £25,111. 
Mr B complained. In essence, he said that if he had been told at the outset that the value he 
saw on the screen wouldnt necessarily be the value hed receive, he wouldve sold sooner 
and avoided the subsequent drop in the value of his investment. He therefore thought that 
Aegon ought to refund him the difference between the value he saw on the screen when he 
placed his order to sell, and the value he eventually received  this was around £1,227. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint, but didnt agree it should be upheld. In 
short, he agreed that Aegon ought to have given him correct information when he initially 
called on 13 March 2020. But that information wouldve simply informed Mr B that an 
instruction to sell would take place at two dealing points in the future  and in relation to the 
funds Mr B owned, these were forward valued. In other words, he would receive the value as 
at the next valuation point the following day. As a result, the investigator didnt think that this 
information wouldve made any difference to when Mr B decided to instruct Aegon to sell, 
because he wouldnt have known in advance whether the value of his holdings would 
increase or decrease. 
Mr B didnt agree. In summary he said:
If he had been told there was a lead time to closing he would have given the 
instruction on 13 March 2020. He had called on the day to close down any trading in 
order to cut his losses. 
It was because he was told that what he would see is what he would get that he 
decided to hold off selling in the hope that things would improve over the weekend. 
He was following the markets at the time and it had taken an upturn. 
He felt Aegon ought to take responsibility for the poor information he was given in the 
call on 13 March and for the poor training of its staff. 
He didnt agree it was fair that Aegon could rely on terms and conditions which were 
over 50 pages long  at the very least the adviser ought to have directed him to the 
relevant section in the terms if she wasnt sure about the information she was giving 
out. 
He felt the information he was given was wrong, and he acted on it  and this caused 
him a financial loss. He didnt think it was fair that he bore the full financial 
consequences of the agents mistake, while Aegon did not. 
He only accepted the £150 compensation on the basis of the inconvenience that had 
been caused to him, and not in any way for the financial loss he incurred as a result 
of acting on the agents incorrect advice. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I fully empathise and understand why Mr B considers he has lost out 
financially. And its clear and not in dispute that the agent he spoke to on the phone wasnt 
as clear as she shouldve been with him when he asked about whether the value he saw on 
screen was in fact the value hed receive. Whether she misunderstood the question he was 
asking, or was simply wrong about Aegons order execution process, I think that she ought 
to have used Mr Bs question as an opportunity to explain in more detail Aegons dealing 
process  particularly in relation to funds. At the very least, and here too I agree with Mr B, 
she shouldve directed him to the section in terms that dealt specifically with his query. 
That said, the key issue in dispute here is whether this error did in fact cause Mr B a 
financial loss. And I should start by saying that even if I thought that Mr B was caused a 
financial loss, it wouldnt be based on the valuation of over £26,000 which he saw on 13 
March 2020. That valuation would never have been available to him, because he wouldve 
needed to have instructed Aegon to sell his holdings the day before on 12 March 2020.
Aegon has explained that at best, if Mr B had instructed it to sell his holdings the same day 
as the call, he wouldve received the value at the next valuation point on 16 March 2020. 
That amount wouldve been £25,588.54  just over £472 more than what he eventually 
received. Ive seen Mr Bs screenshot of his account on 16 March 2020 which shows the 
value of his investments at just over £26,339  but just underneath that figure the screen 
specifies that this was the value as of 15 March 2020, a Sunday. So that value was still 
based on Fridays valuation point. The funds Mr B held were all priced at 12pm on a working 
day  and Aegon has confirmed that on 16 March 2020 this amount wouldve been 
£25,588.54.
So the question I need to decide on the balance of probabilities, is whether the agent he 
spoke to on the phone essentially misled him into deciding not to liquidate his holdings on 
13 March 2020. And whether this misleading information is what caused Mr B to wait until 
16 March 2020 to sell, causing him a loss of just over £472. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive considered firstly what Mr B shouldve been told. He 
essentially shouldve been told that the value he saw on his screen was an indicative 
valuation  but that he would only have confirmation of the precise amount he would receive 
as cash once the sale had been executed at the next dealing point. And in the case of funds 
such as the ones Mr B was holding, in addition to the next dealing point, what mattered was 
the funds next valuation point. 
The agent would then have explained that this value couldve been more, or less, than what 
he saw on the screen on the day he gave the instruction to sell. 
And whilst I fully sympathise with Mr Bs frustration, I havent been persuaded that the 
information above wouldve prompted him to decide to sell on the day. He has admitted himself that he had been observing the stockmarket and had made the decision to wait on 
the off-chance that he might receive a better valuation in future. Im not persuaded being told 
that the valuation he saw on screen could be different to the one he received wouldve made 
any difference to his assessment at that time of what the markets were doing. After all, he 
still wouldve had the same doubt  if the future valuation of his fund matched what the 
markets were doing, he wouldve been better off. 
The key point here is that all the agent confirmed on the day is that the valuation he saw 
would be the valuation he would receive  and yet despite that information, Mr B still chose 
not to sell that day. Im not persuaded that being told that the valuation could change, 
upwards or downwards, wouldve instead prompted him to instruct Aegon to sell 
immediately. 
In my view Mr B is judging what he wouldve done with the benefit of the hindsight he now 
has. He now knows that the value of his holdings went down. But he didnt know that at the 
time. And the agent would not have been able to warn him that this was about to happen  
as she wouldnt have known either. Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for me 
to take into account hindsight when deciding whether Mr B was caused a financial loss by 
the incorrect information he was given. 
For all these reasons, Im not satisfied Mr B was in fact caused a financial loss by Aegon  
and Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to compensate him for the 
drop in value of the funds he was invested in. I do however agree with the investigator that 
being given incorrect information has clearly inconvenienced Mr B, and for that I would 
normally award an amount for something we call distress and inconvenience. Given the 
particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I agree that £150 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for that. I understand this amount has already been accepted and paid to Mr 
B, and so I dont consider theres anything further for Aegon to do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman