DRN-4276413
The complaint
Mr J complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his motor 
insurance claim, including the settlement if offered him after his car was deemed a total loss.
Advantage is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Advantage has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In late 2022, Mr Js vehicle was damaged in an accident caused by another driver. Mr J 
reported the incident to his insurance broker. The broker referred him to an Accident 
Management Company (AMC) to deal with repairs and a hire car, outside of his contract with 
Advantage.
The AMC deemed Mr Js vehicle a total loss and sent Mr J a cheque. However, Mr J 
disputed the valuation of the vehicle. The AMC cancelled the cheque, and the claim was 
passed to Advantage to be dealt with under Mr Js insurance policy.
Advantage arranged for its in house engineers to complete a valuation on Mr Js vehicle and 
offered him £2,757 to settle the claim. Mr J didnt think Advantages offer reflected the 
market value of the vehicle. He raised a complaint about the valuation and the customer 
service hed received.
Advantage said it had used trade guides to value Mr Js vehicle and the amount it had 
offered him was the highest of the guide values. It acknowledged being responsible for some 
poor customer service and paid Mr J £100 to compensate him for this.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He thought Advantages valuation of Mr Js vehicle was fair and in line with the terms of the 
policy. He also thought the £100 Advantage had paid Mr J was fair compensation for the 
poor service hed received from it.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators outcome. He felt Advantage had grossly undervalued 
his car. He didnt think £100 was enough to compensate him for the time hed spent emailing 
and on the phone. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint, Ill explain why.
Im aware that Mr J also brought a complaint about his broker to our service, which has been 
considered separately. To be clear, in this decision, Im only considering matters Advantage 
is responsible for (as the insurer), from when the claim was passed to it in February 2023 
until its final response email of 1 March 2023.
The policys terms and conditions say that if a policyholders car is damaged because of an 
accident, Advantage will do one of the following:
Pay for any necessary repairs
Replace your Car
Repair the damage
Pay the Market Value of your Car immediately before the loss
Market Value is defined as: The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the 
time the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. 
This may not necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your 
Insurer may use publications such as Glasss Guide to assess the Market Value and will 
make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the 
circumstances in which you bought it.
Advantage says it used two industry trade guides to assess the market value of Mr Js car. 
One of the guides valued the vehicle at £2,757 and the other at £2,150. Our service has 
carried out our own vehicle valuation checks on Mr Js vehicle, using two additional trade 
guides. These valuations came out at £2,703 and £2,665.
I think its reasonable for the market value to be assessed as the retail price Mr J would have 
to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer. The fairest way of doing this is by 
using the standard industry guides. These are based on extensive national research of likely 
selling prices. They can provide valuations based on the make, model, age, condition and 
specification of a vehicle.
Advantages settlement offer reflects the highest of the four trade guides weve looked at. 
So, Im satisfied that the settlement offer Advantage made Mr J is reasonable and in line with 
the policys terms and conditions.
Mr J has made us aware of a number of difficulties hes encountered since he made his 
claim in December 2022. As explained, I can only consider the service hes received since 
his claim was passed to Advantage in February 2023. I can see that Mr J made a number of 
phone calls since then and Advantage has acknowledged that he spent a lot of time on hold. 
However, I think the £100 Advantage has paid him fairly recognises the distress and 
inconvenience Mr J experienced as a result.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr J, but overall, I think Advantage has acted 
fairly and reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions. So, I dont require it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman