DRN-2802108
The complaint
Miss G complains that finance provided to her by FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) 
wasnt of the type she understood she was to be provided with. Miss G also complains about 
various charges she was invoiced for after the car was returned to FCA.
Miss G is represented in her complaint by her father. But for ease I will refer to Miss G 
throughout most of this decision.
  
What happened
In May 2015 Miss G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with FCA for the acquisition of 
a new car. The cash price of the car was £10,122. Miss G paid the supplying dealership an 
advance payment of £190 and financed the balance of £9,932. Under the terms of the fixed 
sum loan agreement, and everything else being equal, Miss G undertook to make 47 
monthly payments of £147.74 followed by a final payment of £5,022, or 47 monthly 
payments of £147.74 followed by the return of the car.
Although Miss G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement, she understood she had entered 
into a personal contract purchase (PCP) giving her the right to voluntary termination (VT) 
after half the total amount payable under the agreement had been paid. Miss G said the right 
to VT was important to her because it was her intention to leave the UK before the end of the 
proposed finance term of four years.
After the car was returned in May 2019, Miss G was charged £655.27 by FCA broken down 
as follows:
Excess miles travelled (6,431 x 6p) £385.86
Replacement tyres (3 x £140.47) £421.41
Repair dent (1 x £46) £48.00
Sub-total £855.27
Amount waived (in respect of excess mileage) (£200.00)
Total £655.27
In June 2019 FCA agreed to reduce the tyre charge by £210.70 (50%) and the dent charge 
by £48 (100%) bringing its invoice total down to £396.57 broken down as follows:
Excess miles travelled (6,431 x 6p) £385.86
Amount waived (in respect of excess mileage) (£200.00)
Sub-total £185.86
Replacement tyres (3) £210.71
Total £396.57
Miss Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it should 
be upheld and that FCA should:
Not charge Miss G for the excess miles covered
Pay Miss G £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused
In essence this meant that the investigator concluded that it was fair for FCA to charge 
Miss G £210.71, but nothing else. And that it should in turn pay Miss G £250  making a net 
sum due to Miss G of £39.29.
FCA agreed to the investigators conclusion but Miss G didnt. Therefore, the complaint was 
passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in April 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Its clear Miss G has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed 
submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Miss G will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Like the investigator Im satisfied that Miss G understood she had taken out a PCP and this 
was the type of agreement she wanted. But what she ended up taking out was a fixed sum 
loan agreement. Im also satisfied that had Miss G understood that what FCA was prepared 
to provide by way of financial assistance was a fixed sum loan agreement, rather than a 
PCP, she wouldnt have acquired the car subject to this complaint.
Now in normal circumstances what I would look to do in a case like this is to put the 
consumer in the position they would have been in had there been no misrepresentation by 
the business or its agents, rather than putting them in the position they would have been in 
had the misrepresentation turned out to be true. But here this is simply not possible. This is 
because Miss G submits, a submission that I find to be both plausible and persuasive, that 
had there been no misrepresentation by FCA or its agents she would have kept her previous 
car (which was subject to a PCP) and not acquired the car subject to this complaint.
So unusually in a case like this Ive had regard to the position Miss G would have been in 
had she entered into a PCP in May 2015 rather than a fixed sum loan agreement.
As all the parties are aware under a PCP a consumer has the right to VT once half the total 
amount payable under the agreement has been paid. Now its not entirely clear as to when 
Miss G first tried to return the car and exercise her right to VT. In her most recent 
submissions Miss G says she looked to return the car and exercise her right to VT in July or 
August 2017, before leaving the UK in September 2017.Now I know I cant say for certain Miss G didnt do what she submits she did, but she has 
been unable to provide any documentary evidence in support. Furthermore, FCAs notes 
(which Im satisfied can be relied upon as being an accurate reflection of what was 
discussed and agreed between Miss G and FCA) states:
On 2 September 2017 Miss G called FCA to switch collection of her monthly 
payments going forward from her bank account to her mothers  a request that was 
declined by FCA.
On 19 March 2019 Miss Gs father called FCA to arrange hand back of the car and to 
exercise what he understood was Miss Gs VT rights  a request that was declined 
by FCA.
On 19 March 2019 Miss Gs father complained to FCA that Miss G understood she 
had a PCP with VT rights.
Given the above, and given Miss Gs earlier submissions, Im satisfied that more likely than 
not the first time Miss G attempted to return the car, under what she thought were her VT 
rights, was 19 March 2019.
Based on the car being returned at the end of the agreement, on 19 March 2019 Miss G had 
the following payments scheduled for collection:
22 March 2019 £147.74
22 April 2019 £147.74
Given that it would have taken several days for the car to have been collected and inspected 
and for Miss Gs VT request to be processed, its my view that in respect of monthly 
payments made what Miss G has suffered by way of a loss, in not having the VT rights she 
thought she had, is £147.74  the payment that was made under the fixed sum loan 
agreement on (or around) 22 April 2019 and which wouldnt have been payable under a 
PCP. 
When the car was ultimately returned, Miss G was charged £385.86 for excess miles 
travelled, later reduced to £185.86. Now like the investigator Im not sure that had Miss G 
been able to VT that such a charge (whether £385.86 or £185.86) would have been payable 
by her. 
On return of the car Miss G was charged £469.41 in respect of damages, a charge that was 
later reduced by FCA to £210.71.
Now Ive considered these charges very carefully and having had regard to both the 
inspection report and the guidelines issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association Im satisfied that FCA was entitled to charge Miss G £469.41 for these damages. 
I would also add that Im not persuaded that these damages were as a result of the car being 
returned in late May 2019, rather than in late March 2019, given that this only constitutes a 
period of two months.
Even if I was to ignore the fact that the car had travelled substantially more than 20,005 
miles when it was returned, given what I say above the most I would award Miss G, by way 
of a refund of monthly payments made that wouldnt have otherwise been made, is £147.74. 
And although I agree that FCA shouldnt charge Miss G anything for excess miles travelled I 
think its entitled to charge her £469.41 for damages sustained. So, this gives a net sum due 
and owing to FCA (from Miss G) of £321.67.
However, I also accept that this whole matter has caused Miss G a degree of distress and 
inconvenience for which she should be fairly compensated. Now taking everything into account I think that rather than paying Miss G £250 in this 
respect, as suggested by the investigator, the fair and reasonable thing to do is for FCA to 
simply write off any debt it still has recorded in its books as being due and owing to it from 
Miss G, a sum that I understand stands at £396.57.
Finally, I would like to add that Im aware of the two pieces legislation referred to by Miss Gs 
father. However, notwithstanding that I dont think these two pieces of legislation help 
Miss G, Im ultimately required to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint and Im satisfied that is what Ive done here.
FCA responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.
Miss G responded to my provisional decision to say:
I am sure you [are aware that the dealership] contract for sale was for a PCP
Although she cant prove it, she phoned FCA to say that she didnt want the car any 
longer sometime before FCAs notes say her father first tried to return it.
Had she been able to return the car when she wanted to (and tried to) she would 
have saved around £1,050 in payments.
Had she been able to return the car when she wanted to (and tried to) the three tyres 
wouldnt have suffered the damage she was charged for.
The car passed its MOT test a week before the car was returned.
The inspector commented on how great the car had been kept and that she should 
challenge the charges.
There was clearly a breach of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to say that Miss G has provided nothing in response to my provisional 
decision that is new, or which I didnt consider or take into account when finding, in my 
provisional decision, what I did. However, for the sake of completeness and clarity I would 
make the following comments.
I dont dispute that Miss G understood, and fairly and reasonably understood, that her 
agreement with FCA was to be a PCP rather than a fixed sum loan agreement and like the 
investigator Ive upheld this aspect of her complaint.
I know I cant say for certain that Miss G didnt phone FCA to return the car before FCAs 
notes say her father first tried to do so. But as I said in my provisional decision, on the 
balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that more likely than not this is what happened, 
and I still hold this view.
Miss G says that had she been able to return the car when she first wanted to (and tried to) 
she would have saved £1,050 in payments. The investigator did ask Miss G how this sum 
had been calculated but she didnt provide our service with an answer. Now its my understanding that if Miss G is saying she that she would have saved £1,050 in 
payments had she been able to return the car when she first wanted to (and tried to) then 
that would have been in late 2018 (£147.74 x 7 = £1.034.18). But this is simply not 
supported by any of the documentary evidence that has been provided and its also in 
contradiction of the other dates and times submitted by Miss G as part of her complaint. So, I 
remain satisfied that on the balance of probabilities that the first time that Miss G (or 
anybody else) tried to return the car was 19 March 2019.
Miss G says had she been able to return the car when she wanted to (and tried to) the three 
tyres wouldnt have suffered the damage she was charged for. However, Im not persuaded 
by this submission and Ive nothing further to add to what Ive already said on this point.
I dont dispute the car passed its MOT test one week before the car was ultimately returned. 
But the MOT test requirements and the return condition requirements are completely 
different. In other words, just because a car passes its MOT test doesnt mean it will pass a 
return condition inspection.
Miss G says the inspector commented on how great the car had been kept and that she 
should challenge the charges. Now I accept I cant say for certain the inspector didnt make 
these comments, but they arent supported by the inspection report itself. And in my view, its 
entirely reasonable, in the particular circumstances of this case, to place more weight on the 
inspection report than what Miss G says the inspector said.
Miss G says there has been a clear breach of contract. Now in my view there hasnt been a 
breach but a misrepresentation. But regardless of my view on this point Im satisfied that 
what I said in my provisional decision FCA should have to do to fairly compensate Miss G is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
I appreciate that Miss G will be disappointed, but given what I say above I see no reason to 
depart form my provisional findings and I now confirm them as final.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd 
must:
write off Miss Gs outstanding debt as recorded in its books
remove any adverse information it has recorded with credit reference agencies in 
respect of the above debt
However, it need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman