DRN-2865813
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that IMIA Ltd are pursuing them for payment of commission on a 
level term assurance policy which was cancelled by the product provider. 
What happened
In 2010 Mr and Mrs A took out a level term assurance policy after taking advice from IMIA. 
For that sale IMIA received commission payment from the product provider.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs A made a claim under the policy which was declined due to non-
disclosure of some information about Mrs As health at the time the policy was taken out. 
The product provider agreed to cancel the policy from the outset and refund Mrs As half of 
the premiums that had been paid while the policy was active. 
After the policy was cancelled the product provider contacted IMIA to clawback the 
commission they had been paid for the sale which was over £2,000. In turn IMIA contacted 
Mr and Mrs A asking for payment of the commission which had been clawed back by the 
product provider.  
Mr and Mrs A complained saying the policy was in force for some nine years and the 
documentation said the claw back liability was only for the first two years of the policy. IMIA 
said that because the policy was cancelled from inception the liability to reclaim commission 
still existed.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with this and brought their complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought it wasnt fair to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
repay the commission as the terms of the declaration they signed when taking out the policy 
said there was a two year period for claw back. They said if IMIA wanted to have an open-
ended period for clawback then the declaration shouldve said that; but it doesnt. IMIA 
disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IMIA have provided a lot of information about the complaint and why they feel they have the 
right to pursue Mr and Mrs A for payment of the clawed back commission. I want to assure 
IMIA that Ive read and considered everything theyve submitted even if I dont mention it in 
detail. Ive summarised the details which reflects the informal nature of our service.
In their submissions to our service IMIA have made reference to other similar cases where 
they say the courts had ruled in their favour about the recovery of outstanding debts; 
although no details of these cases were provided. IMIA subsequently requested that this 
case be judged on its own merits and on the contemporaneous documentary evidence 
provided. This service is an informal alternative to the courts and when coming to decisions 
we take into account things like the law, regulations and good practice. I want to be clear 
that my decision is based on what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome taking everything 
into consideration based on the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
There was some initial misunderstanding about whether the policy was cancelled or 
amended by the provider. Looking at the evidence I think its clear that policy was cancelled 
and a new one was set up for Mr A. Although at the time it seems Mr A was unsure about 
this which caused some debate about the ability for IMIA to claw back the commission. 
However the documentation shows the policy was cancelled, which leads us to the claw 
back issue.
The document IMIA are relying on is the declaration signed by Mr and Mrs A at the time of 
the sale. 
The declaration says:
If we subsequently cease to pay the premiums, and in consequence your company is 
obliged to refund commission that has been paid to your company, we understand that you 
reserve to right to charge us a fee. This fee is based on the amount of commission clawback 
retrieved from your company as a result of the policy lapsing, being cancelled or indeed 
being surrendered .. 
So I think its clear that IMIA are, in principle, allowed to ask for payment of clawed back 
commission. 
The declaration goes on to state the amount of the commission and then talks about the 
timeframe for clawback:
..  liability will reduce on a pro rata basis over the stipulated period of 2 years from inception 
and the amount quoted will be the maximum sum we will be liable for, should the policy 
become paid up due to non payment of premiums, be surrendered, cancelled or lapse for 
any reason. The commission clawback period will be 2 years from the start date of the Life 
contract arranged by our office in conjunction with the mortgage.
I think a fair and reasonable interpretation of this is that the claw back period is only for two 
years. After that period I think its understandable that customers like Mr and Mrs A can feel 
satisfied that any liability has ended. I think the last sentence is in fact very clear about the 
matter.
IMIA say that because the policy was cancelled from inception (which was a choice offered 
by the product provider) the liability still exists. However I dont think the declaration makes 
that clear. If IMIA meant the declaration to have open-ended claw back liability for situations 
where policies were cancelled from inception by the product provider, then it should have 
been made clear; but its not. Ive also taken into consideration that the policy was active for 
some nine years.
IMIA have said they want the fact that Mrs A admitted the non-disclosure which caused the 
policy cancellation to be taken into consideration when making a decision. I have taken this 
into consideration, and it doesnt seem in doubt that Mrs A made that mistake, and that the 
mistake led to the policy cancellation. But the main issue here is whether IMIA made it clear 
in the signed declaration that commission could be clawed back from Mr and Mrs A in such a 
situation. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded it was made clear. 
Having carefully considered everything Im not satisfied its either fair or reasonable for IMIA 
to pursue Mr and Mrs A for payment of the clawed back commission. I think the declaration 
signed by Mr and Mrs A indicates the claw back period is two years; and the time period here is beyond that by quite some years. 
Putting things right
IMIA Ltd should stop pursuing Mr and Mrs A for repayment of commission on their policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint. IMIA Ltd 
should take the action outlined above and stop pursuing Mr and Mrs A for the repayment of 
clawed back commission on their policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman