DRN-4448149
The complaint
Ms D complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect her when she was the victim of 
a fraud.
What happened
Ms D has a current account with Monzo which she opened in 2021. She applied for a 
business account in July 2022. Monzo considered her application and said that she wasnt 
eligible at that time.
Ms D says she was contacted on social media by a third party in 2023 who claimed to be 
from the same country she came from, so she accepted their request. Ms D says the third 
party asked her if she knew about cryptocurrency and said she was a foreign exchange 
expert and that there were trading opportunities. Ms D says she sent a payment of £1,000 
on 24 February 2023 having been told she could make £17,000 from this. Ms D says two 
other individuals subsequently asked her if she was interested in investing in cryptocurrency. 
The first said she could double her money, and that she could potentially earn $1 million if 
she invested £2,000. Ms D says she made several payments.
Ms D says she made a fifth payment of £4,256.35 on 26 February 2023 which Monzo 
blocked. Ms D says other payments she tried to make also kept bouncing back. She 
complained to Monzo about her payments bouncing back.
Monzo looked into Ms Ds complaint and said that it looked like she was using her account 
as a business account and that if she didnt stop doing so then her account might be closed. 
Monzo allowed Ms Ds fifth payment to go through at this stage.
Ms D subsequently contacted Monzo saying that shed lost her card and that there had been 
unauthorised payments on her account  payments for cryptocurrency. Monzo asked for 
more details but received no response.
Ms D then complained with the help of a representative saying that the payments Ms D had 
disputed were in fact payments shed made having fallen victim to an investment scam. 
Monzo investigated what had happened and told Ms Ds representative that it wouldnt be 
able to refund her payments or raise a chargeback as shed approved them. So, she 
wouldnt be getting any money back.
Ms Ds representative said that Monzo should have intervened as the activity on her account 
was unusual and that it owed her a duty of care. Mrs Ts representative said she wouldnt 
have fallen victim to the scam had Monzo done so.
Monzo disagreed saying that all correct processes had been followed so its decision not to 
refund the payments stood. Ms Ds representative complained to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ds complaint and said that they thought Monzo 
should have intervened as they thought Ms Ds payments were unusual when compared to 
the normal usage of the account. Had Monzo intervened, our investigator thought that the 
scam would have been exposed and Ms D wouldnt have made the fifth payment meaning 
that Monzo missed an opportunity to prevent a loss to Ms D. But they also thought that Ms D 
should share some responsibility for what had happened. So, they recommended that a 50% 
reduction be applied to the refund. Our investigator recommended Monzo refunding the 
£4,256.36 payment Ms D made on 26 February 2023 minus a 50% reduction plus an 
additional 8% interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Ms Ds representative accepted our investigators recommendations. Monzo didnt accept 
them. Monzo said that none of the payments had been identified as unusual by its systems, 
and that these struck a balance between protecting customers from fraud and allowing 
legitimate payments. In addition, Monzo said that it didnt agree that it has a duty of care 
where a customer doesnt dispute the fact that they made a payment and theyve acted in 
accordance with a customers payment instructions. Ms Ds complaint was, as a result, 
referred to an ombudsman for decision and was passed on to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, Im satisfied that Ms D made four successful payments to cryptocurrency 
exchanges on 24 and 25 February 2023  of £1,000, £335.36, £1,006.07 and £1,257.59. In 
addition, Im satisfied that she attempted to make a number of other payments that didnt go 
through. Those payments appear to have not gone through because Monzo had concerns 
about the way Ms D was managing her account  which had nothing to do with the 
cryptocurrency payments she was making  and so had blocked her account. Monzo 
ultimately let Ms D know that it was concerned that she was using her account as a business 
account and that if she continued to do so it might need to review their relationship. Im 
satisfied that Monzo noted Ms D had been making payments to various cryptocurrency 
exchanges during this review, but concluded that these payments were normal activity and 
not a cause for concern. Ill come back to this in a moment. Im satisfied that Ms Ds payment 
of £4,256.35 was allowed to go ahead on that basis.
Had Monzo not been reviewing Ms Ds account at the time she was attempting to make 
payments to cryptocurrency exchanges, and in particular the payment of £4,256.35, I dont 
think Monzo would necessarily have had reason to believe that the fifth payment was 
unusual. Monzo was, however, reviewing Ms Ds account and it was also speaking to her via 
chat. In the circumstances, given that it was already interacting with Ms D, and this was a 
payment for over £3,000 after January 2023, I would have expected Monzo to have provided 
Ms D with a tailored written warning relevant to cryptocurrency investment scams. I say that 
because wed expect firms to have recognised that cryptocurrency related transactions carry 
an elevated risk of the likelihood of the transaction being related to a fraud or scam by then. 
Thats because by then many leading firms had appreciated this risk and placed blocks or 
restrictions on cryptocurrency related transactions, and there had been widespread 
coverage in the media about the increase in loses to cryptocurrency scams. More 
importantly, in this case, I think a tailored written warning would have made a difference. In 
short, for the reasons Ive just given, I agree with our investigator that Monzo could and 
should fairly and reasonably have intervened when Ms D attempted to make the fifth 
payment. Had it done so, Im satisfied that Ms D wouldnt have gone ahead with any further 
payments. In other words, Im satisfied that Monzo missed an opportunity to prevent further 
loss to Ms D.
Putting things right
Ms Ds representatives have accepted that our investigator was right to make a 50% deduction for contributory negligence. I think that was the right thing to do. So, Im going to 
require Monzo to refund the £4,256.36 payment Ms D made on 26 February 2023 minus a 
50% reduction plus an additional 8% interest from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Monzo Bank Ltd refund the £4,256.36 payment Ms D made 
minus a 50% reduction plus an additional 8% interest from 26 February 2023 until the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman