The complaint 
Ms B and Mr Gs complaint is about XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited and its 
decision not to accept their claim under a travel insurance policy. They want the claim paid. 
Background
Ms B and Mr G had annual travel insurance with XL.
Ms B became pregnant. They were due to travel abroad to a country regarded as
high-risk by the NHS and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office for Zika virus. Ms B
sought advice about whether it would be safe for her to travel. She was advised by
her midwife and GP not to travel. Ms B and Mr G made a claim under the policy.
XL declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover cancellations in these
circumstances.
Ms B and Mr G complained to XL about its decision.
XL said the policy excluded claims about normal pregnancies, and its staff was
correct to tell Ms B and Mr G that the claim wouldnt be accepted. XL said that it
wouldnt expect policyholders to travel against medical advice and understood why
Ms B and Mr G had cancelled their trip, but the event wasnt insured by the policy.
Ms B and Mr G didnt agree and brought their complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld.
XL doesnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should be upheld for these reasons: 
The policy is the starting point. Insurers dont have to cover every possible event that
might lead to a claim, but they do need to be clear about what is and isnt covered.
The policy in this case says that pregnancy and childbirth isnt considered to be an
illness or an injury unless particular complications arise, and the policy was designed
to cover unexpected events. The policy repeats that normal pregnancies arent
covered for cancellation claims.
But it also says that You must not travel against medical advice (or would be
travelling against medical advice had you sought medical advice prior to travel) or
with the intention of obtaining medical treatment or consultation abroad.. This means
that Ms B and Mr G wo
uldnt have been covered by the policy at all if they travelled
against the advice theyd received. This point is so important its in a box near the
start of the policy.
The investigator said that refusal to cover the cancellation costs in these
circumstances was unfair and unreasonable. XL said the requirement not to travel
DRN-1590252against medical advice didnt mean all claims would be covered. But stepping back 
and looking at the whole picture, I dont think XL acted fairly or reasonably by 
declining this claim. While pregnancy isnt an illness or injury, the consequences of 
Zika virus are potentially severe. 
Other decisions of this service in very similar circumstances have found that the
claim should be accepted, though cases are dealt with on an individual basis. Theres
been no dispute about the advice received by Ms B and Mr G, and I see that the
NHS and government websites confirm that pregnant persons shouldnt travel to this
country due to the risk of Zika. XL said in its final response that it wouldnt expect
policyholders to go against medical advice, but in Ms Bs case it doesnt want her to
travel but XL wont accept the cancellation claim either. The pregnancy happened
after the policy was taken out and the trip booked. For Ms B to have travelled, she
wouldve gone against medical advice. I think its fair and reasonable for XL to
consider the claim in all the circumstances.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Ms B and Mr Gs 
complaint, XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited should accept the cancellation claim 
and consider it for payment in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Interest at 8% 
simple a year should be paid from the date of claim to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman