DRN-4355523
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr M and Mr Rs attempts to arrange mortgage finance on the 
advice and recommendation of Elmco Ltd trading as The Mortgage Brain (TMB). The 
intended purpose of the finance was to fund the acquisition of a new-build property. The 
transaction ultimately fell through, even though Mr M and Mr R had exchanged contracts 
on the new property. This left them having to pay £125,000 to the developer for failing to 
complete. Theyre seeking to recover that loss, along with other costs, from TMB on the 
grounds that that errors and omissions in its part were the cause of the transaction falling 
through.
What happened
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex and the evidence in 
the case is detailed, running to more than 3,500 pages of documents, all of which Ive read. 
Theres a lot of duplication and some of the documents are more relevant to the case than 
others. Some of the early email exchanges relate to a debt-consolidation re-mortgage 
rather than the transaction that is the subject of the complaint, albeit the latter was already 
in its early planning stages. Also some of the email content was redacted, seemingly 
because it related to unconnected third parties.
In what follows, I have set out events in rather less detail than they have been presented. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if 
I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think 
it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion 
peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information that 
might result in Mr M and Mr R being identified. Instead Ill give a summary in my own words 
(and rounding the figures where relevant) and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
Mr M and Mr R first approached TMB in 2016 about the proposed purchase, which was 
anticipated would take place in 2018. They already owned several properties, and their 
plan involved selling two of their existing properties. In July 2017, Mr M and Mr R contacted 
TMB seeking reassurance that their plans could proceed. In October 2017, Mr M and Mr R 
exchanged contracts with the developer on the property they intended to purchase once it 
had been built.
Dialogue continued through 2018 and early 2019. In addition to the sale proceeds of the 
two properties being sold, the purchase would be funded by raising new finance on what 
was at that time their home. They intended to re-mortgage that property to a buy-to-let 
(BTL) basis. The remaining funds would be raised as a residential mortgage on the new 
property. The existing property that was to be retained and re-financed was also subject to 
second charge lending, which Mr M and Mr R intended to keep in place. 
Offers for both mortgages were obtained, but in the latter part of 2019, it was identified that 
both offers included conditions that Mr M and Mr R hadnt anticipated being required to 
meet. Having to do so, they argue, made the offers unsuitable. TMB succeeded in 
persuading the two lenders to drop the problematic conditions, albeit in the case of the 
BTL, this was conditional upon the existing second charge holder being willing to execute a 
deed of postponement to allow its debt to remain in place ranked behind the new first 
charge. 
Unfortunately the second-charge holder wasnt willing to do this. TMB tried to renegotiate a 
new offer from the BTL lender but this was aborted in early 2020. In March 2020, the 
developer served notice of completion on Mr M and Mr R, which they were unable to meet. 
They forfeit a deposit of £125,000 
In May 2020, a firm of solicitors (Ill refer to this firm as W) served a Preliminary Notice of 
Claim pursuant to the Pre-Action Protocol, alleging professional negligence on TMBs part. 
This was followed up in July 2020 with a formal claim letter, claiming damages for the lost 
deposit of £125,000, any other remedy the developer might seek to recover, broker fees of 
£1,730, interest on those sums, plus reimbursement of the legal costs of pursuing the claim 
and compensation for inconvenience and distress.
TMB treated the letter as a complaint, and issued a final response to W on 
21 September 2020, rejecting the complaint and referring Mr M and Mr R to this service. 
The letter explained that if Mr M and Mr did wish to refer the complaint to us, they needed 
to do within six months of the final response; i.e. by 21 March 2021.
Mr M and Mr R contacted us on 15 March 2021, so within the six-month window, but said 
they werent yet ready for us to commence an investigation. They told us they wanted to 
see if matters could still be resolved between W and a firm of solicitors Ill refer to as R 
that TMB had instructed to represent it in the dispute. The next we heard on the case was 
in May 2023 when W wrote to tell us it now wished us to look into the complaint. The 
investigator who did so wasnt persuaded the complaint should succeed. Mr M and Mr R 
asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed) we reach our 
findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence, from both sides, and decide how much weight 
should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in 
isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole picture. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Our enabling legislation, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, provides at section 
225 that we are required to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum formality. Here, 
both parties have chosen to instruct solicitors to argue their respective positions. Thats their 
prerogative, provided both parties accept they must meet the costs involved. Its only in the 
most exceptional of circumstances that we award legal fees, where we consider a 
complainant could not present their case themselves, which I dont find to be the case here. 
Both sets of solicitors have, unsurprisingly, presented their respective clients cases in very 
legalistic terms. In reaching my decision, I will have regard for the law and good industry 
practice where relevant, but my overarching responsibility is to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. That can sometime mean reaching a different outcome 
from what might prevail in court.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA); nor 
are we a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an 
informal alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. We deal with individual disputes  when were able to  subject to rules laid 
down by the FCA (which are known as the DISP Rules). 
Ive considered everything that both parties have said and provided; having done so Im not 
persuaded the underlying dispute is quite as complex as it has been made to look. Ill explain 
why.
The first point to make is that, by exchanging contracts when they did, Mr M and Mr R 
committed themselves to completing the purchase, and the potential costs if they didnt, long 
before TMB was in a position to start meaningful work on sourcing the finance for them. 
Also, despite what W claimed at one stage, I dont find that Mr M and Mr R exchanged when 
they did as a result of and advice or recommendation TMB gave them. 
An email from TMB dated 1 November 2017 (prompted by Mr Rs name popping up in a 
diary entry) asks if it was time to begin work on arranging the mortgages. Mr R replied the 
next day informing TMB that he and Mr M had already exchanged contracts on the property 
purchase, albeit likely completion was delayed until the first quarter of 2019. TMB was aware 
before then that Mr M and Mr R might exchange contracts, but none of the preceding email 
exchanges suggest TMB encouraged or recommended they do so.
It was, in my view, Mr M and Mr Rs choice, and theirs alone. It was a decision they were 
entitled to make; but it was also their choice. I imply no criticism of them for doing so and 
none should be inferred. But I cant hold TMB responsible for the consequences of the 
choice they made. 
Despite the long and convoluted set of events that led to this complaint, my task in 
determining it is simpler than it might seem. If Im to find in Mr M and Mr Rs favour and 
make the award against TMB theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied of two things:
that there were errors and omissions on TMBs part in how it handled their 
mortgage application; and 
that such errors and omissions are the sole or primary reason Mr M and Mr R failed to complete on the purchase and therefore incurred the costs theyre seeking to 
have recovered, and other external factor didnt play a contributory part. 
The latter is not entirely a binary question. Ultimately, the test I have to apply is this: 
notwithstanding other factors, but for any shortcomings there may have been on TMBs part, 
is it more likely than not that Mr M and Mr R could have complied with the notice of 
completion served on them, thus avoiding incurring the costs theyre claiming?
As they are the party bringing the complaint, Mr M and Mr Rs version of events has to be 
more likely than the alternative, not just simply as likely. Having taken everything into 
account, Im not persuaded that, if TMB had acted as promptly as Mr M and Mr R say it 
should have, they would more likely than not have been able to complete the purchase when 
required to.
I say this because this was a complex transaction involving many factors, most of which 
were outside TMBs span of control. Mr M and M R spent much of the time that elapsed 
juggling options, and changing their minds about which property to sell and which to retain 
and rent out. Each of them had multiple income streams that required verification, and in 
some cases, evidence that tax returns had been agreed, and the resulting tax bills had been 
paid.  
And it wasnt just that TMB needed to persuade two different lenders to agree to lend on the 
terms Mr M and Mr R required. This was an immensely difficult task given the underwriting 
challenges the applications presented, so much so that TMBs broker told Mr M and Mr R he 
was even prepared to take his laptop with him on honeymoon in 2019, to keep an eye of 
how the applications were progressing. 
In addition, a third lender had to be willing to execute a deed of postponement (which it 
wasnt) and two other properties needed to be sold at the right time and for the right price 
(which they werent). 
All of those elements had to go exactly to plan if the property acquisition was to have a 
reasonable chance of succeeding as planned. In my view, if even one component didnt go 
as it needed to, that would be enough to reduce the likelihood of success below the 
threshold needed for me to uphold the central thrust of this complaint. 
Given all the other variable factors over which TMB had no influence, I cant fairly and 
reasonably find that Mr M and Mr R have met the more likely than not test.
Its possible that TMB could have identified the issues that delayed the transaction sooner 
than it did. But by the same token, so could Mr M and Mr R reasonably have done so; they 
are far from being novices in the field of property acquisition. So might their solicitors have 
identified the potential problems sooner; they had the same degree of responsibility to Mr M 
and Mr R on the legal aspects of the transaction that TMB had on the financial aspects. 
Again, I imply no criticism of the solicitors and none should be inferred. I make the point 
merely for context, as part of my conclusion that errors and omissions on TMBs arent the 
sole or even the primary reason Mr M and Mr R failed to complete on the purchase when 
required to do so.
Mr M and Mr R clearly had high hopes for this property acquisition, and I understand why 
they would. However, and without wishing to sound unkind, for all the complexities of their 
wider financial arrangements, and despite TMBs best efforts on their behalf, they didnt 
have, and couldnt raise, enough money to pay for the property theyd committed to buying in 
2017 or a lower-priced alternative, when the seller asked them to do so in 2020. I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see how strongly Mr M and Mr R feel. They see error or wrong-doing in 
almost everything the broker has done (or not done). 
Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. Its also natural to 
emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a particular viewpoint, 
whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the opposite viewpoint. 
But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or anomalies in what both 
sides have said and done from time to time. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae, focussing on the broader 
picture. Thats what Ive done. Having done so, for all the reasons Ive set out, I cant find in 
Mr M and Mr Rs favour. 
I will however make a further observation. Theres more (and sometimes less) to complaint 
resolution than simply deciding whos right or whos wrong. Its not just about winning the 
argument or indeed pursuing the argument to its ultimate legal conclusion; sometimes its 
about compromising to reach a fair conclusion. 
Given the quantum involved, theres a strong possibility that this case may go to court, if 
Mr M and Mr R ultimately reject my final decision. And if that happens, then subject to any 
time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, Mr M and Mr Rs recourse to a legal 
remedy of their own against TMB over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been 
prejudiced by our consideration of it. But of course they will need to weigh up the likelihood 
of a successful outcome and the potential costs theyll face if not successful.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
Elmco Ltd trading as The Mortgage Brain.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman