DRN-3862093
The complaint
Miss E complains J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Simply Be have charged her 
for items she did not receive on her catalogue shopping account.
What happened
Miss E says she received notification from the courier that her J D Williams order had been
left outside her home when she was out. When Miss E arrived home, her parcel wasnt there
but J D Williams still charged her for the items.
J D Williams looked into Miss Es concerns. They said their courier had provided information
to show the parcel was handed to someone at the delivery address.
Miss E wasnt happy with J D Williams response so she referred her complaint to our
service. An Investigator considered the complaint, she didnt think it should be upheld. She
said, in summary, she didnt think J D Williams had treated Miss E unfairly by charging her
account for the items shed ordered.
Miss E didnt agree. She said the parcel wasnt handed to her; it was left outside her home.
She didnt think it was fair that she was being charged a lot of money, about £600, for items
she never received.
As Miss E didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. Ive set out my findings again below and they form part of this 
decision. 
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Es complaint is about whether or not J D Willliams acted fairly by charging her for
items on her account she says she didnt receive.
Im required to consider complaints in accordance with the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP
Rules). Among other things, the DISP Rules say we can only consider complaints about
regulated activities. Regulated activities are set out in DISP 2.3.1R. The relevant activity 
here is the provision and administration of Miss Es catalogue shopping account  which is a
regulated credit agreement.
In Miss Es case, J D Williams have acted in two capacities. Theyve acted as a finance
provider in giving and administering a regulated credit agreement to Miss E. Theyve also
acted as a retailer from which Miss E has ordered goods.
Whether or not Miss E received the goods she ordered from J D Williams in their capacity as
a retailer is not a complaint about a regulated activity or any other activity covered by our
rules. Thats a complaint about J D Williams actions as a retailer, which isnt something we
can consider.
But I can consider whether J D Williams has treated Miss E fairly in their capacity as a
provider of regulated credit by asking her to repay the lending in the circumstances shes
described and whether interest has been fairly applied to her account.
The terms and conditions of Miss Es credit agreement with J D Williams sets out the terms
on which they will provide lending to Miss E for purchases. But theres nothing in the
agreement to suggest Miss E wouldnt be required to repay the lending if theres a dispute
about the items. And I dont think theres a wider obligation on J D Williams to not ask Miss E
to repay the lending in circumstances such as these  where theres a dispute about the
items. So I dont think J D Williams have treated Miss E unfairly by asking her to repay the
lending.
The terms and conditions also set out the circumstances in which interest and fees will be
added to the account. Having reviewed Miss Es account, Im satisfied that the interest has
been applied to her account in line with the terms and conditions. Again, theres nothing in
the agreement which suggests Miss E will not be charged interest in the event of a dispute
about items.
Overall, Im satisfied J D Williams has acted fairly and reasonably in how theyve handled
Miss Es credit account. If Miss E remains unhappy with J D Williams retail activities, she
may wish to pursue that specific complaint elsewhere.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss E responded to say she had provided a photograph of the parcel having been left on a 
bin outside her home. She thought the courier must have been dishonest because J D 
Williams said the courier had handed it to someone but she had supplied this photograph. 
Miss E also said again she was being charged a lot of money for items she hadnt received. 
J D Williams did not respond by the deadline set out in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the photograph Miss E provided to us and J D Williams  I agree it shows a parcel 
on top of a bin. But I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of her complaint. This is 
because, as I explained in my provisional decision, whether or not Miss E received the 
goods she ordered from J D Williams  the retailer  is not a complaint about a regulated 
activity or any other activity covered by our rules. So this isnt something I can consider. 
Ive noted Miss Es comments that shes being charged a lot of money for items she didnt 
receive. I explained in my provisional decision there wasnt anything in the terms and 
conditions of Miss Es credit agreement that meant J D Williams couldnt charge her for the 
items or apply interest to her account where there was a dispute about items. 
As I dont think Miss Es comments change things and J D Williams did not respond, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. I remain satisfied that J D Williams has acted 
fairly in respect of Miss Es credit account.If Miss E remains unhappy with J D Williams retail activities, she may wish to pursue that 
specific complaint elsewhere. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman