DRN-3299488
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to refund money he lost as part 
of a cryptocurrency scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr E decided to invest in cryptocurrency after seeing an 
advertisement about a cryptocurrency broker (AB Capitals) featuring Bill Gates. He set up 
an account with the broker (who subsequently turned out to be fraudulent) and was 
contacted by an individual claiming to be an investment manager.
Mr E registered his debit card details with AB Capitals in order for them to make trades on 
Jubiter.com  a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. The scammer showed him evidence of 
the trades and profits that were supposedly being made and Mr E even received some 
return on his investment to entice him to invest further sums.
Between 12 October 2019 and 29 November 2019, the following payments were made to 
Jubiter.com from Mr Es debit card:
Date Merchant Amount Running total
12 October 2019 Jubiter.com £250 £250
24 October 2019 Jubiter.com £10,000 £10,250
27 November 2019 Jubiter.com £5,000 £15,250
27 November 2019 Jubiter.com £10,000 £25,250
29 November 2019 Jubiter.com £10,000 £35,250
29 November 2019 Jubiter.com £15,000 £50,250
Total £50,250
Mr E eventually realised he had been scammed when AB Capitals refused to allow him to 
make any withdrawals and ceased all further contact, at which point he reported the matter 
to Santander. However, Santander declined to refund the money Mr E lost, and also said 
they would be unable to raise a chargeback as Jubiter.com provided a legitimate service. 
Unhappy with this, Mr E referred his complaint to this service and the matter was escalated 
to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. I said I was minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
Its common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr E for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), in force at the time. 
This is because he had authorised AB Capitals to make trades on his behalf and 
had given the scammer his debit card details in order for them to do so.
As a starting position, banks are under an obligation to follow their customers 
instructions. But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into 
account relevant rules, codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or 
notice that something wasnt right or should have looked at the wider circumstances 
surrounding the transaction before making the payment. So, Ive looked into what this 
means for this case and whether the bank should have done more here to prevent 
the payments in dispute.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Having considered this together with the particular circumstances of this case, I am 
satisfied there were reasonable grounds for Santander to suspect fraud or a scam, 
and therefore justify an intervention. In light of the frequency of the payments and 
sums involved in relation to how Mr E normally operated his account, I think that 
Santander ought to have identified the risk of harm. In other words, this was an 
unusual and uncharacteristic pattern of spending for Mr E due to multiple payments 
being made to a cryptocurrency exchange in quick succession  which indicated that 
something untoward might be happening.  
However, I do not consider that the first three payments of £250, £10,000 and £5,000 
listed in the table above would have been enough to trigger Santanders fraud 
detection systems. Mr E had a history of making large payments, such as those he 
made on 24 July 2019 and 25 July 2019 of £10,000 and £25,000 respectively for the 
purchase of premium bonds. He also made two payments of £10,000 to Paragon 
bank on 23 and 24 October 2019, which is around the same time he then made a 
£10,000 payment to Jubiter.com as part of the scam he fell victim to. So, I dont think 
the first three payments to Jubiter.com would have appeared unusual when 
compared to Mr Es usual account activity and spending patterns. 
However, the point at which I consider his payment activity did become unusual is 
when Mr E made two large transactions of £5,000 and £10,000 to Jubiter.com on the 
same day on 27 November 2019. I do not think that the first £5,000 payment on that 
date ought to have triggered any intervention in itself, as this had been made around 
a month after the previous scam payment of £10,000 on 24 October 2019. But I do 
think that Santander ought to have intervened after a second payment of £10,000 
was attempted to the same crypto merchant on the same day. Santander ought to 
have known that large payments being made in quick succession to the same 
merchant is a common sign that a scam is unfolding. Overall, I consider it would have 
been reasonable for Santander to have properly questioned Mr E before processing 
the payment of £10,000 on 27 November 2019 in order to satisfy themselves that all 
was well. 
Causation
Had the bank contacted Mr E to ask relevant questions, Im satisfied it would have 
been apparent that he was falling victim to a scam. In other words, but for the banks 
failure to make further enquiries, it would have been on actual notice that Mr E was 
going to suffer financial harm from fraud. 
If Santander had asked Mr E what the payments were for and the basic surrounding 
context, it is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that 
everything had originated from his broker i.e. the fraudsters. So, whilst Santander 
may have known that Mr E was sending money to a legitimate crypto trader, I think 
they still should have provided a scam warning in light of all the information known to 
banks about the increasing number of scams associated with fraudsters selling what 
is made out to be cryptocurrency.
After all, at the time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought 
to have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks 
associated with crypto trading, including many warnings of potential fraud. For example, the FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams 
in mid-2018. Regulated businesses ought reasonably to take notice of such insight. 
By the time Mr E made these payments, cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in 
frequency and its reasonable to conclude that banks, such as Santander, had also 
had time to digest these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and 
prevent this type of fraud. 
Even if an intervention by the bank wouldve identified that the payment was going to 
the consumers own account with Jubiter.com, the conversation should not have 
stopped only on the basis that the money appeared to be going somewhere safe and 
within the consumers control.  
I say this because, by the time Mr E made these payments, I think Santander had or 
ought to have had a good enough understanding of how these scams worked to have 
been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. Including, that the consumer often 
first purchases the crypto asset and moves the money on to the fraudster under the 
assumption theyre moving the money into their own wallet.  
With this in mind, I would have expected Santander to have asked questions about 
the context and true purpose of the payment. While it is not up to our service to 
dictate which questions a bank should ask, Santander couldve, for example, asked 
how Mr E had been contacted, whether he had parted with personal details in order 
to open a trading account, whether the investment opportunity was linked to a 
prominent individual, or advertised on social media etc. These are all typical features 
of cryptocurrency scams  and form part of a reasonable line of enquiry to protect a 
consumer from the potential risk of a prominent type of scam. 
Although there is no reason to doubt that Mr E would have explained what he was 
doing, I accept it was possible that he might not have revealed enough information to 
lead the bank to understand whether he was at risk of financial harm from this 
particular type of fraud (or any type for that matter). I cant know for certain what 
wouldve happened. However, I reach my conclusions not based on mere 
possibilities, but rather on what I find most probable to have happened in the 
circumstances. And on balance, Im satisfied Mr E wouldve likely shared information 
which aligned with the hallmarks of this type of scam, as he had been given no 
reason to think he had to hide this information from his bank, and neither had he 
been coached to tell them something different.
In light of this, I think Mr Es losses were foreseeable to Santander despite the 
payment on the face of it not leaving the consumers control. And Im satisfied that, 
had the bank, having identified the payments as unusual and suspicious, asked 
relevant questions of Mr E, it would have been apparent that he was falling victim to 
a cryptocurrency scam. In other words, but for Santanders failure to make further 
enquiries, it would have been on actual notice that Mr E was going to suffer financial 
harm from fraud.  
Further, even if they had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a 
warning would have alerted Mr E to the common issues arising in relation to so-
called crypto currency brokers. Which, in turn, would probably have led them to 
second guess their supposed brokers credentials, i.e. whether they were in fact 
professionally linked to a prominent individual such as Bill Gates. The result of which, 
would likely have stopped Mr E in his tracks. 
So, in any case, Mr Es losses, though not arising from the initial transfers, ought to 
have been within the contemplation of, and foreseeable to, Santander. Therefore, 
and taking into account whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances, Im 
satisfied the bank can be held responsible for the loss Mr E has suffered.Finally, I accept that, when simply executing authorised payments, banks such as 
Santander do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice. However, the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice  so I do not think the bank wouldve 
acted out of line, had it warned Mr E along the lines that Ive described.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions. I have duly considered whether Mr E should bear some responsibility by 
way of contributory negligence. However, in this case, I do not think he could have 
foreseen the risk that the company he was dealing with was a scam and simply did 
not appreciate what he was doing or the consequences of his actions.
All in all, I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion and Mr 
E was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was 
the professional in financial matters; Mr E was a layperson.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Both Mr E and Santander 
accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties accepted my provisional findings and had nothing further to add, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision above. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and intend 
directing Santander UK Plc to refund Mr Es stolen payments from the £10,000 payment he 
made on 27 November 2019 onwards (totalling £35,000), less any credits he received into 
his account from Jubiter.com. 
As this was a current account, Santander should add interest to the above sum (less any tax 
properly deductible) at 8% simple interest per year from the respective date of loss to the 
date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman