DRN-3652143
The complaint
Mr M complains that RAC Insurance Limited declined his claims for legal expenses 
insurance (LEI), he is also unhappy with the service he received.
Where I refer to RAC, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr M has the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses. This is an add-on to his home 
insurance. Mr Ms policy renewal date fell in March each year. 
For the policy year commencing in March 2018, the underwriter of Mr Ms LEI was A. For 
the policy year that started in March 2019, the underwriter for the LEI was RAC. This 
remained the case until the policy expired in March 2020. I understand that Mr M went on to 
take out similar cover with another insurer. 
The relevant policy wording (from 2018 until 2020) was largely unchanged despite the two 
different underwriters. Both policies also provided a legal advice helpline (LH) which was the 
first port of call if wishing to make a claim. The LH is run by a law firm Ill refer to as M. But 
in addition to being a law firm, M also handle claims on behalf of the underwriter. 
The broad circumstances surrounding Mr Ms claim is that he was an unpaid director of a 
management company in relation to the development where he lived. There was a dispute 
that was linked to maintenance costs and his position on the board. He feels certain 
neighbours of his have infringed his privacy rights. 
Ive been provided with the following notes of Mr Ms contact with the LH.
1. February 2019  Mr M enquired about making a claim. He says he was told the only 
option was to claim for defamation but that this wasnt covered under the policy.
2. February 2020  Mr M wanted to make a claim for a personal injury in relation to 
stress. He was again advised that this wasnt something the policy covered.
3. March 2020  Mr M discussed a director dispute. He was told this wasnt covered.
4. August 2020  Mr M referred back to the defamation claim and said he thinks it is a 
data protection breach / privacy issue and should be covered. He was again informed 
that this wouldnt be covered.
Mr M wanted the reasons for his claims being declined to be put in writing to him and there 
was a delay in this happening of around six months. He says that until hed exhausted the 
complaints procedure, he couldnt be sure he wasnt covered. He also feels the delays 
impacted on his health. Mr M says he was passed back and forth between M and his main 
home insurer with no-one taking responsibility. 
Im aware that ultimately M provided a complaint response with referral rights to the Legal 
Ombudsman. In this M explained that it isnt their usual process to put advice from the LH in 
writing. But they acknowledged they should have done this when Mr M asked and they 
ultimately offered him £150 compensation for the impact of this. 
In 2021, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. In summary she explained that RAC were responsible for 
the claims decisions and she thought the decisions made were fair. She didnt feel she could 
comment on the delays in putting things in writing as when doing that M werent acting on 
behalf of the underwriter. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. In July 2022 I issued 
a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can quite understand Mr Ms frustration at trying to understand all the parties involved. This 
is a fairly complex area and not something that most consumers often have to deal with 
directly. 
What are RAC responsible for?
Im satisfied that between March 2019 and March 2020 (the time period relevant to the 
majority of this complaint) that RAC were the underwriters of Mr Ms LEI. This means they 
are ultimately responsible for any claim decisions given. This is the case even where M are 
acting as their claim handler.
But M also have other roles which include providing legal advice on the LH and potentially 
running the underlying legal action as panel solicitors on an accepted claim. But when doing 
these actions, they arent an agent of RAC and are acting as a law firm with their own 
regulator and Ombudsman scheme. I appreciate this can make things confusing, but it is a 
relatively common arrangement between the parties in this type of insurance. 
M provided a complaint response in relation to the delay in putting things in writing to Mr M. 
And they gave him referral rights to the Legal Ombudsman. As such, it appears they believe 
that the delay took place when they were acting as solicitors and not as claims handlers (as 
an agent of RAC). I dont agree. I consider giving a written explanation for a claim being 
declined (or a complaint linked to this) to be part of their role in the initial handling of a claim. 
And as such when doing so, they are an agent of the insurer (RAC) who ultimately retain 
responsibility. Ill cover this in more detail below. But I first want to set out Mr Ms contact 
with the LH. Ill use the number system Ive assigned above:
Point One.
This took place when A were the underwriters of Mr Ms LEI. As such, that isnt something I 
can comment on here in a decision about RAC. At that time, in making that decision M were 
an agent of A. Some of Mr Ms submissions indicate he may now accept that he isnt 
covered for defamation. Specifically where he said in response to our Investigators view: You then go on to explain why you consider that my claims for defamation and personal 
injury were not covered, yet my complaint to the Ombudsman was not at all about the 
decisions to deny me cover to bring a legal claim on either of those two grounds and I have 
never disputed them. But if Mr M does wish to dispute this, he should let our Investigator 
know and they will assist in setting up a complaint for him which would need to be against A. 
Mr M also says that when calling the LH at this point he wanted to know about all the 
potential legal claims he could make. And that he was poorly advised as only defamation 
was mentioned and not a breach of his privacy/data protection rights. This is a complaint 
about the legal advice he received. It isnt something RAC are responsible for as they 
werent his LEI insurer at the time, and even if they were it would still be the responsibility of 
M as it pertains to legal advice.
Point Two.
By this point the LEI underwriter was RAC. But Mr Ms submissions (as quoted above) make 
clear he now accepts he isnt covered for a personal injury claim. 
Point Three.
Here there is dispute as Mr M believes he should be covered. But RAC highlighted an 
exclusion they believe applies which states there is no cover for claims arising from or 
relating to Shareholding, directorship or partnership disputes. This is something I can 
consider which Ill come to below.
Point Four.
Mr M believes that he would be covered and that the correct claim here is about data 
protection and not defamation. Mr M believes this is something A are responsible for due to 
them misinforming him back in February 2019 (Point One). I think the answer Mr M was 
given here about a claim in relation to privacy / data protection rights is something RAC are 
responsible for. I cant see that he was given an answer on this point previously.  
And whilst RAC werent on cover at this time (the policy had expired in March 2020), they 
gave him an answer as to why the policy couldnt respond. (Not every policy requires a claim 
to be notified within the period of coverage). I also note that the relevant policy wording is 
identical for when RAC and A were on cover. So even if Im wrong as to which underwriter is 
responsible  the outcome would be the same. 
As Ive set out, the crux of Mr Ms complaint is firstly that he believes he should have cover 
under his policy. And secondly that hes received poor service which includes the delay in 
receiving written confirmation of his claim being declined. Ill deal with each part in turn. 
The Claims
Mr M has helpfully provided clarity. In summary, he believes he is covered and the claim he 
wishes to bring isnt a directorship dispute. Rather, he says he wants to bring a claim about 
the infringement of his legal rights under DPA / GDPR which arose entirely in relation to his 
home whilst he was an unpaid director on the board of the right to manage company of the 
development where he lives. 
RAC believe this claim isnt covered. Ill consider whether their conclusion is in line with the 
policy terms and fair. 
Mr Ms LEI policy provides cover for Pursuit of civil claimsarising from or out of:i) Your death or personal injury from a sudden or specific accident
ii) The purchase, hire purchase or lease of goods or services for your private use
iii) Any infringement of your legal rights arising from and relating to your ownership or
occupation of your principal place of residence
iv) Your contract of employment
I think its clear that the circumstances of Mr Ms claim dont relate to his death or personal 
injury. For completeness I agree with RAC that there isnt cover for stress as a result of 
personal injury as it isnt as a result of a sudden or specific accident. (Something I 
acknowledge Mr M now seems to accept). I also think that its clear the claim isnt in relation 
to purchasing goods or services nor his contract of employment. So the remaining potential 
cover refers to any infringement of Mr Ms legal rights arising from and relating to his 
ownership or occupation of his principal place of residence. 
Whilst I can see the point Mr M is making when saying he thinks he is covered. I dont think 
RAC have acted unfairly when concluding he isnt. RAC have said that even if a data 
protection breach were something the policy covers, it would be specifically excluded as it 
arises from and relates to a partnership dispute. There is an exclusion in the policy which 
says there is no cover for shareholding, directorship or partnership disputes.  I dont think 
that is unreasonable as the alleged breaches of Mr Ms privacy / data are linked to the 
circumstances of him being in dispute with some of his fellow directors. 
But even if that werent the case, the policy is clear that only infringements of his legal rights 
arising from or relating to his ownership or occupation of his property are covered. I again 
agree with RAC that rights under data protection or rights to privacy arise from Mr Ms status 
as an individual. They dont arise from his ownership or occupation of his home (Mr M would 
have those rights irrespective of his status as a homeowner or resident of an address). 
So taking all of this together, I dont think RAC have acted unfairly or outside the policy terms 
when declining Mr Ms claim. 
The Service
I think its reasonable that advice is given during the first contact with the LH as to whether 
assistance is available under the policy. I wouldnt expect RAC to encourage people to 
unnecessarily go through a formal claim process where cover clearly isnt available. 
But where there is a dispute and particularly where there is a request to do so from the 
insured, I dont think putting things in writing is an unreasonable expectation. Further to this 
upon receipt of a complaint, Id expect RAC to respond to it in a timely manner. 
As Im intending to find that RACs claims decision was fair, I dont think the service he 
received impacted on Mr Ms underlying legal dispute. I also dont think Mr M was prevented 
from seeking alternative options (such as looking for no-win no fee representation or self-
funding) as RAC had given him an answer, just not in writing. 
Mr M was entitled to approach our service eight weeks after having complained to RAC 
(whether theyd responded or not). So I likewise dont think any delay had a meaningful 
impact on his ability to come to our service. 
Mr M has evidenced he is suffering from ill health which he attributes to the circumstances of 
his complaint. Dealing with any dispute, particularly one involving a home and neighbours 
will always be a tough and difficult time. And Im not persuaded that RAC are responsible for 
all the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused Mr M  or that it would be fair to hold them liable for Mr Ms ill health. But I do think that there was some poor service, 
which would have had an impact. 
I also note that Mr M is pursuing a complaint with the Legal Ombudsman in relation to the 
compensation already offered by M. And it wouldnt be fair for Mr M to effectively receive 
redress from both our service and the Legal Ombudsman. But Mr M has confirmed that his 
complaint with the Legal Ombudsman hasnt yet been dealt with by them and is awaiting 
allocation. And as such, I can make an award here, without the concern of there being a 
double benefit. If Mr M does receive redress from elsewhere in the meantime, Id expect this 
to be shared with our service. 
M accepted there were delays and I think that M were an agent of RAC in relation to the 
activity they were undertaking at the time. I consider this to be the handling of the claim, not 
the provision of legal advice. So overall, in recognition of the poor service provided, Im 
intending to conclude that RAC should pay Mr M £200 compensation. I consider this to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
RAC broadly accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide further comments or 
evidence. Mr M provided further comments which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M reiterated that he is only complaining about the decision to deny him cover to bring a 
legal claim for infringement of his UK GDPR rights. Mr Ms interpretation of the term quoted 
above (at iii) is that the term refers to where the infringement is arising from and not where 
my rights that were infringed arose from I understand the point Mr M is making but I dont 
think that is a reasonable reading or the intention of the term or that RAC interpreting it 
differently to Mr M is unfair. I think the term in question is sufficiently clear that it is 
infringements of Mr Ms rights that arise from his occupation or ownership of his home that 
are covered.
Mr M also provided a great deal of detail to explain why he also considers the exclusion of 
no cover for Claims arising from or relating to Shareholding, directorship or partnership 
disputes to have been unfairly applied. 
This includes reference to case law regarding the interpretation of the phrase arising from in 
relation to insurance policies. Mr M also seeks to draw a distinction between the remote 
cause of the infringement of his privacy rights (which he accepts was a directorship dispute) 
and the proximate cause which he says was the personal decision of other directors to take 
the action they did as private individuals. 
Ive considered this but the wording of the exclusion includes arising from or relating to (my 
emphasis added). So even if I were to accept all Mr M has said in this regard (which for 
clarity I dont), there is no requirement for the claim to have arisen from a directorship 
dispute. Relating to a directorship dispute would be sufficient for the exclusion to apply. And 
from Mr Ms own submissions in acknowledging that although the remote cause of the 
infringement was a directorship dispute I think this is sufficient for the exclusion to fairly 
be applied  the claim relates to a directorship dispute. 
Mr M also raised points about claims handler delays in dealing with his complaint. I can only 
comment on the actions of RAC and their agents in this decision. Im satisfied that as the crux of this complaint is the claim being declined and the associated service provided, that 
RAC are the correct respondent. It isnt uncommon for there to be close working 
relationships between several regulated firms and for them on occasions to act as an agent 
of another. 
Overall in relation to the compensation Mr M believes that the £200 I proposed fell far short 
of being fair for the impact on him. He disagrees that his underlying legal claim wasnt 
impacted and believes that his individual circumstances havent been properly considered in 
deciding a fair compensation amount. He believes a figure in the region of £3,000 would be 
more appropriate. 
Id like to reassure Mr M that I have carefully considered the impact of the poor service on 
him. This includes reading all the medical and other supporting evidence hes provided. 
Whilst I understand Mr Ms reasons for wanting a definitive answer on his claim before 
progressing, Im not persuaded it would be fair to hold RAC liable for any impact of his 
decision to wait before doing so. I also remain satisfied that £200 is a fair amount of 
compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. So Im not going to direct RAC to pay 
more than this to resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Unless theyve already done so, RAC Insurance Limited must pay Mr M £200 compensation. 
(If the £150 compensation previously referred to has already been paid, then only a further 
£50 needs to be paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman