DRN-1983355
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with RAC Insurance Limiteds handling of their motor legal 
expenses insurance claim and the service theyve received. 
For ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to Mr R.
Where I refer to RAC, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
very brief overview here.
In 2016 Mr R was unfortunately involved in a road traffic accident during which both he and 
his wife sustained injuries. Mr R and Mrs R contacted RAC for legal assistance to take legal 
action against the other driver. 
RAC appointed one of their panel solicitors (S) to look into the claim. Mrs Rs claim was 
later split from Mr Rs and transferred to a different solicitor. As Mr R had been driving at the 
time of the accident  the panel solicitor felt this could be a conflict of interest for them in 
handling both cases. 
On 18 March 2018, S wrote to Mr R and explained that they felt the solicitor/client 
relationship had broken down and that they wouldnt continue to represent him. They 
explained that they had issued a protective claim to court as the limitation deadline was 
approaching. 
Mr R complained to RAC about the actions of S. He also wanted them to find him a new 
solicitor. In summary RAC said that Mr R should complain directly to S and that they didnt 
have another panel solicitor to offer him. But, they would allow him freedom to choose his 
own solicitor who they would consider appointing if the policy conditions were met and the 
solicitor agreed their terms.
Mr R made numerous complaints to RAC about the handling of his claim and the service he 
received from both them and the solicitors appointed to act for him under the policy. 
Mr R remained dissatisfied with RACs response to his complaints and on 18 September 
2019 he first contacted our service about this matter. One of our investigators concluded that 
our service couldnt comment on the actions of solicitors as they have their own complaints 
procedure and regulator. She also thought that some of Mr Rs complaints had been referred 
to us too late under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules that our service is bound by. 
And for the parts of the complaint she could consider, she didnt think it should be upheld. 
Mr R disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. Ive already 
issued a jurisdiction decision explaining that some of Mr Rs complaint had been made too 
late. But the parts I could consider were:
the requirement for funding under the policy that the legal action has 51% or greater 
prospects of success;
the service provided by panel solicitors;
dissatisfaction with a phone call on 18 March 2019 with RAC;
RAC only having two panel firms of solicitors and not doing enough to help Mr R find 
representation beyond this;
Our investigator has already considered these complaint points and didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. Mr R doesnt agree and the complaint is now with me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and for essentially the same reasons as our 
investigator. I know this is an important issue to Mr R and that this will be disappointing, so 
Id like to explain why.
Mr R has made considerable submissions in bringing his complaint. Ive considered all of 
these but I wont be responding in similar detail. So, if I dont mention a particular point or a 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel the need to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr R doesnt take this as a 
discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
I know that the phone calls Mr R had with both the RAC and with our investigator are 
important to him. And Id like to reassure him that Ive listened to as many calls as I feel is 
necessary to fairly decide this complaint. 
For simplicity, Ill deal with each of Mr Rs complaint points in turn.
The requirement for 51% or greater prospects of success.
Mr Rs policy says: Our legal claims handler will negotiate to recover your and/or your 
passengers uninsured losses in relation to a legal claim which, in our legal claims handlers 
opinion, has a 51% or greater chance of success. 
This is a very common term in legal expenses insurance and I dont think it is inherently 
unfair. Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client wouldnt generally continue 
with legal action if they were advised they werent likely to win. So, I dont think an insurer 
should have to either. 
Im satisfied this term applies to the circumstances of Mr Rs legal action. So, I dont think it 
is unreasonable for RAC to insist on establishing Mr Rs intended legal action had the 
required prospects of success before agreeing any further cover.
Service provided by panel solicitors
Much of Mr Rs complaint is about the decisions taken by and service provided by S. This 
includes a dispute about a medical examination and report. RAC as the insurer arent 
responsible for the advice or service provided by solicitors, even when they are appointed 
under the terms of the policy. The solicitors involved will have their own regulator and 
complaints process should Mr R remain unhappy with them. 
When a customer is unhappy with a solicitor appointed under a policy, Id generally expect 
the insurer to pass the complaint on. RAC advised Mr R to take up his complaint with S and to consider escalating things to the Legal Ombudsman. This is broadly what Id expect them 
to do in these circumstances.  
The call with RAC on 18 March 2019
Mr R says that during this call he was advised by RAC to ask S about whether or not the 
medical report in question would be admissible in court. He feels this contributed to S 
decision to no longer represent him. Ive listened to that call and it seems that the dispute 
with S about the admissibility of the report had occurred sometime previously. So, Im not 
persuaded that RAC gave Mr R poor advice during this call or did anything that contributed 
to the breakdown in the relationship between him and S. Im satisfied the call handler did all 
she could to assist Mr R in the circumstances and I dont think RAC need to do more.
The number of panel solicitors and RACs further assistance
Mr R is unhappy that RAC only have two panel solicitors that they could consider using. The 
number of panel solicitors that RAC have a relationship with is a business decision they are 
entitled to make. In Mr Rs circumstances S had said they felt unable to represent him 
further and the other panel firm presumably had a conflict of interest as they were 
representing his wife. In these circumstances Id expect RAC to offer Mr R freedom to 
choose his own solicitor. This is what happened.
Mr R doesnt think RAC did enough to help him find a new solicitor. This isnt something Id 
expect them to do  it was for Mr R to find and choose a solicitor. So I cant fairly criticise 
them for not doing so. I know Mr R is also unhappy that any prospective solicitor would be 
required to confirm the prospects of success in relation to his legal action and to agree to 
RACs terms before theyd be appointed under the policy. Both of these are requirements of 
cover under the policy. If RAC are to be funding the legal costs, they need to have an 
agreement in place with the non-panel solicitor. This is standard practice in this area of 
insurance and I dont think RAC were being unfair when insisting on those requirements.
Summary
I understand that Mr R has had a very tough time over the last few years and I dont doubt 
the impact this has had on him and his wife. But having carefully considered everything, 
overall, I dont think hes been treated unfairly by RAC and so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Im unable to comment on the actions of solicitors and if Mr R feels S have acted 
unfairly, he should consider seeking further advice about how to escalate his complaint with 
them. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman