DRN-3174245
The complaint
Mr C complains Ferratum UK Ltd marked his credit file with late payments for a number of
years, when he says it ought to have defaulted the account in line with good industry
practice.
  
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C did not agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this 
in italics and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr C took a loan from Ferratum on 24 November 2014 for £150. Mr C was required to make
one payment to Ferratum of £209.45 on 31 December 2014 in order to repay this loan.
Ferratum hasnt shared with this Service a copy of the statement of account, but it seems
that Mr C didnt make his repayment as planned.
Ferratum appears to have marked this late payment on his credit file, and then continue to
record late payments on his credit file until May 2019. It has then told us the account was
sold to a third-party debt collector in October 2019.
Mr C says that given the guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO)
Ferratum shouldve defaulted his account when he didnt make his repayment. Had it done
so, its likely this loan record wouldve dropped of his credit file by now.
Ferratum, issued a final response letter (FRL) on 23 April 2021. The FRL explained to
Mr C that it hadnt made an error. It said there was no legal requirement for a default to be
applied to his credit file and Ferratum stopped reporting on the credit file once the account
was sold to a third-party debt collector.
Mr C, unhappy with this response, referred his complaint to our Service.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. She said Ferratum
chose not to default the account, and that wasnt an error. She also concluded that what
Ferratum was reporting on Mr Cs credit file was an accurate reflection of the conduct of the
account.
Ferratum appear to have agreed with the adjudicator.
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. In response, in summary he said;
He provided copies of other decisions issued by this Service that Mr C says
contradict the findings reached by the adjudicator.
Mr C says that if the account hadnt been sold, then Ferratum couldve reported on it
indefinitely.
The ICO guidance is seen as good industry practice.
Mr C believes the debt to be statue barred as he hasnt had communication from
Ferratum about this debt after January 2015.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered what Ferratum has recorded on Mr Cs credit file. Mr C recently
provided this Service, with a screen shot of this loan record from his credit file, I can see the
following;
Ferratum stopped reporting on this loan record from September 2019
Missed payments were recorded between February 2016 and May 2019
No data (in terms of missed payments) were recorded between June 2019  
September 2019.
.
The balance on the account shows as zero  likely reflecting the fact that Ferratum sold the
loan to a third party in October 2019.
So, from what Mr C has provided, Ferratum isnt currently updating his credit file anymore,
because it is no longer the debt owner. It is of course possible that the debt owner is now
reporting this loan on Mr Cs credit file, but Ive not been provided with any evidence to
suggest this is the case. And even if the third party was reporting to the credit reference
agency this complaint is solely about the actions of Ferratum.
Ive considered what Mr C says, as well as taking into account the relevant guidance, and
Im intending to agree with him - that the account ought to have been defaulted a number of
years ago. Ive explained my reasoning below.
In order to establish whether I think Ferratum ought to have defaulted the account Ive
considered the guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
The ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and it has released a
document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at
Credit Reference Agencies  this is the guidance that this Service uses when determining
whether a default ought to have been applied and or whether one shouldnt have been
provided. It is entirely reasonably to rely on this, because in my view, it constitutes good
industry practice.
The basis of the principles is that;
Lenders that supply data to the CRAs are required to ensure that the data is
accurate, up to date and meets agreed quality standards.
Principle two goes on to explain;
2. Should a payment not be made as expected, information to 
reflect this will be recorded on your credit file
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for theagreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported
to the CRAs as being in arrears. If this continues over time, the level of reported
arrears will increase, which may result in the lender taking some form of action. This
could include notification of their intention to report the account as defaulted
Clearly, the ICO foresees, that in certain situations it may be needed to record a default on a
consumers credit file. The principles go on to say the following about the reporting of
arrears;
Reporting of arrears over time
Arrears should generally only increase by one month at a time e.g. status code 1 to
2, 2 to 3 etc. There can be exceptions to this such as fraud, bankruptcy, county court
judgments (CCJs), returned cheques or direct debits.
So, I think its likely, (although I cant be sure because Mr Cs credit file doesnt go back that
far) that when Mr C didnt make his payment as expected in December 2014 that Ferratum
recorded missed payments. This is entirely consistent with the guidance that is issued by the
ICO.
Indeed, it doesnt look Mr C has ever made a payment towards this loan, so it isnt clear why
missed payments continued to be reported and no further action was taken. I wouldve
expected to see on the credit report a deterioration of the monthly arrears, but that isnt
apparent in Mr Cs credit file record.
But the crux of this complaint, is that given the number of missed payments and the time that
passed from the loan being taken out and the fact that there has been very little contact
between the parties. Should this have led Ferratum to have defaulted Mr Cs account.
When thinking about whether that ought to have happened, Ive kept in mind principle four of
the ICO guidance - this is dealt with under Principle 4;
4. If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the
revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be recorded to
show that the relationship has broken down.
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally
by the time you are 6 months in arrears.
There are exceptions to this which may result in a default being recorded at a later
stage, such as secured or long-term loans e.g. mortgages, or if the product operates
in a more flexible way e.g. current accounts, student loans, home credit.
I accept the principles says a default may be recorded to show so there is some scope
that a default may not be appropriate in all situations. However, I dont think that applies
here.
Im minded to conclude the relationship had broken down. It doesnt look like Ferratum was
in that much contact with Mr C after he failed to make the loan repayment and there also
doesnt appear to be any attempt to set up a repayment plan (for example).
Indeed, Ferratum decided in October 2019 to pass the account to a third party. In my mind,
no contact and no payments are a clear indication that the relationship had broken down and
the conditions had long been met in which a default ought to have been applied.
Importantly, the ICO guidance provides examples when a default wouldnt be appropriate;
A default should not be filed:
 If you make a payment, in time, that fully meets the terms set out in the
default notice If jointly with the lender an agreement is reached for an arrangement and you
keep to the terms of that arrangement
 If the amount outstanding is solely made up of fees or charges
 If a lender is given evidence that a customer is deceased (for example a
verifiable death certificate, probate or letter of administration.
Looking at Mr Cs complaint I can see no reason why a default hasnt yet been reported and
I dont think any of the above conditions have been met which wouldve prevented Ferratum
from applying one.
After all, if Ferratum hadnt defaulted the account or hadnt sold the loan to a third party the
account couldve, following Ferratums logic, remained on his credit report indefinitely which
I dont think is fair.
Ive also considered what Ferratum told us about removing the loan once the debt has been
repaid, and that if the loan is removed then Mr C may not repay. But, the account has been
on his credit file since 2014, and the debt hasnt been repaid. And, as Ive already said, the
account is with an independent third party, and so the collection of this loan is no longer the
responsibility of Ferratum.
So, Im going to ask Ferratum to retrospectivity apply a default to the account.
It is of course possible, that had the correct default process been followed, Mr C wouldve
been notified of Ferratums actions and he may have set up a payment plan  in order to
prevent the default from being applied. 
But, given the length of time that has passed since the account was opened, I think its likely 
that had Ferratum chose to default the account earlier, that is what wouldve happened. 
Rather than Mr C taking steps to prevent the default.
Looking at what principle four says, it isnt unreasonable for a default to have been applied
after six months of missed payments, given the date of the payment that Mr C was due to
make  it is therefore likely the account wouldve defaulted towards the end of June 2015.
In summary, the information Ferratums currently reporting isnt a wholly accurate reflection
of how Mr C ran the loan account, and I see no reason given the above principles, why the
account hadnt been defaulted.
Finally, Mr C considers the account to be statue barred. However, this issue concerns the
right to recover the debt but as Ferratum has assigned that right to a third party, it isnt
appropriate for me to comment as part of this decision. This is because the third party, isnt
subject to this complaint or any decision that stems from it.
Ive also considered whether any compensation should be paid to Mr C. But given, there
was always going to be some adverse information reported on his credit file based on what
Ive seen I dont think it would be appropriate to award compensation here.
Both parties were asked to respond either any further comments or evidence by 
19 November 2021. 
Mr C acknowledged the provisional decision, said he agreed with it and didnt provide any 
further comments. 
Ferratum responded and it didnt agree with the provisional decision. In response it said;
Mr C was still contacting Ferratum for further loans in 2015.
Following non-payment Ferratum transferred the account to two different collection agents before the loan was sold. 
Both debt collection agencies were unsuccessful in recovering payment from Mr C 
and so the accounts were returned to Ferratum. 
The balance was sold in 2019, and the new debt owner hasnt been able to recover 
the outstanding balance. 
Ferratum said it would remove the loan from the credit file once Mr C repays the 
capital. 
It doesnt seem fair for the loan to be removed when no payment has been made. 
There is no legal requirement for the account to be defaulted. 
Finally, when Ferratum reported the loan to the credit reference agencies it showed 
the arrears as being 6months plus in arrears, this would show as sustained arrears. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Ferratums further points, these havent persuaded to me that I need to 
change the outcome I explained I was intending to reach in the provisional decision. 
Ferratum has made a number of points about how it went about trying to collect the balance 
from Mr C including passing the account to two collection agencies. It then took the decision 
to sell the debt to a third debt collection agency. While, this does suggest that Ferratum has 
tried to recover the funds, that isnt what Im being asked to consider. 
Mr Cs complaint was and is, whether the information on his credit file is accurate, because 
he has said Ferratum ought to have recorded a default in relation to his loan account. Im not 
making a finding on whether Mr C owes the money, as that isnt what Ive been asked to 
consider. 
Ive considered whether it was reasonable for Ferratum not to have defaulted the account. 
And, as I explained in the provisional decision, good industry practice, as outlined by the ICO 
suggested that the default ought to have been applied when Mr Cs account became six 
months in arrears. That may have been later, depending on whether for example Mr C 
entered a repayment plan  but that didnt happen in this case. 
For the reasons Ive outlined in the provisional decision, I consider the account ought to have 
been defaulted around six months after the account fell into arrears given the relationship 
between Ferratum and Mr C had, in my view, broken down. 
I appreciate that Ferratum says there isnt a legal obligation to default the account. But as 
Ive said, in the provisional decision with reference to the ICO. I think it was reasonable, that 
Ferratum needed to have done more in relation to the credit file rather than just reporting the 
arrears on the account up to the point the debt was sold to the third party. 
Ive considered the offer Ferratum has made, that being, it would remove the loan from the 
credit file once it has been repaid. But the recovery of the debt is no longer its responsibility 
and the loan wouldnt be on Mr Cs credit file, had in my view good industry practice been 
followed. 
This is because if a default had been recorded and Im satisfied the conditions had been met 
for one to be applied , its likely the default wouldve been recorded more than six years ago 
and therefore it wouldve dropped off the credit file by now. Having thought about Ferratums comments, these, on this occasion havent persuaded me 
to change my view of the case. So, Im still upholding Mr Cs complaint and Ive outlined 
below what Ferratum needs to do in order to put things right for him. 
Putting things right
Given, the time limits for a default being recorded as outlined by the ICO guidance I consider
it reasonable that Ferratum shouldve defaulted the account. The ICO says that a default
ought to have been applied when the account reached six months in arrears, I consider that
reasonable and that is what Im going to direct Ferratum to do.
So, to put things right, Ferratum should do the following;
Update Mr Cs credit file to show that his loan account ought to have been defaulted
from June 2015.
It will also need to arrange for any of the other adverse information reported after this
date is amended to reflect the account has defaulted.
The effect of this is that Ferratum will now need to arrange to remove the loan from 
the credit file, because it is more than six years since a default ought to have been 
recorded. 
But as Ive said above, there is an outstanding balance that Mr C may wish to discuss
repaying off with the third party.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Cs 
complaint.
Ferratum UK Ltd should put things right for Mr C as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman