DRN-3119559
The complaint
Mr R complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
TFS provided loans to Mr R as follows:
LoanDate of 
loanLoan 
amountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentInterest 
(APR)Total 
amount
1 06/11/18 £2,500 24 £172.77 69.9% £4,146.48
2 04/06/19 £4,000 24 £245.83 48.9% £5,899.92
Mr R told us that when TFS provided the loans it didnt do the necessary checks and had it 
done so it wouldve seen he had two other active large guarantor loans as well as a large car 
loan and other borrowing.   
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think TFS should have provided 
Mr R with either of the loans and so he upheld the complaint and set out the steps TFS 
should take to put things right.
TFS didnt agree with the investigators assessment. It mainly said:
it cant comment on Mr Rs bank statements as it hadnt had sight of these and it can 
only make comments on the information it had at the time of the application
TFS was entitled to rely on information provided to it by Mr R being accurate and it 
hadnt seen anything to suggest this was not the case 
it would be fair to assume if this loan was not affordable then it would have seen 
missed payments very early on into the loan term
the checks it carried out were proportionate and TFS made a fair lending decision
the application was approved based on the information provided by Mr R and a 
number of discussions took place to determine the details were accurate. TFS hasnt 
seen anything to suggest he wouldnt be able to afford the loan.
TFS requested that the case be referred to an ombudsman for review. So it comes to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R would be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did TFS make a fair lending decision?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation. 
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income)
 the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for 
an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
For loan 1, TFS asked Mr R about his income and expenditure, it took steps to verify his 
salary and checked his credit history. I've taken into account the information TFS gathered 
from Mr R. I think its fair to say that the figures Mr R declared and the affordability 
calculations TFS caried out seemed to suggest he had ample disposable income after taking 
into account his monthly expenditure and it appeared that he should have been able to 
comfortably afford the monthly repayments for this loan.But given what it saw in the credit report it acquired showing details of Mr Rs credit history, 
I think our investigator was right to be concerned about TFS making its lending decision 
without doing more in-depth checks or taking steps to verify the information it was relying on. 
I say this particularly bearing in mind that Mr R was signing up to repay the loan for the next 
two years. I think that was a long enough loan term to go beyond what would be a 
reasonably foreseeable period to expect complete stability in his finances. 
And it was evident that he had some hallmarks of serious financial difficulty apparent on his 
credit report. I say this because TFS saw information showing a significant amount of 
historical adverse information with at least nine previous defaults, most of which appear to 
have been active at the time, as well as an outstanding County Court Judgement. Whilst the 
majority of the defaults dated back at least three years or more, the most recent had been 
issued just over six months prior to this application. So I dont think TFS was safely able to 
say that it looked like Mr R was on top of managing his financial situation.
I dont agree with TFS that the information it saw wasnt enough to impact on its lending 
decision. What Mr R had told TFS about his income and expenditure, and its own 
affordability calculation suggesting he had a healthy amount of surplus cash each month, 
looked to be clearly at odds with what TFS saw on its own credit checks, which showed clear 
indications that Mr R hadnt yet resolved his money problems. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. But TFS was aware 
that Mr R had active court debt and it saw clear signs of payment problems on other 
accounts. So thinking about all the information TFS had gathered, I dont think it was able to 
be satisfied on the information it had in front of it that it could safely conclude that its loan 
would be sustainably affordable for Mr R.
I think it would have been proportionate for TFS to have taken steps to independently verify 
the true state of Mr Rs finances and it needed to do more in-depth checks to ensure it 
properly understood his financial situation before agreeing to provide this loan. 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. Mr R has 
provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what TFS was likely to 
have found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should necessarily have done 
this. But, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide as to 
Mr Rs finances at the time. And had TFS looked in depth at Mr Rs finances it would likely 
have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. 
I think it would have learnt that Mr R was regularly spending significant amounts on what 
appear to be gambling transactions. And TFS wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that its 
affordability calculations could be relied on  the indications were that Mr R didnt in reality 
have enough spare cash to stretch to making the loan repayments for this loan. So I dont 
think it was reasonable for TFS to conclude that it was likely Mr R would be able to repay 
this loan in a sustainable manner.
For these reasons, I am upholding Mr Rs complaint that he should not have been given 
loan 1.
It follows that I dont think TFS acted fairly or reasonably when it topped up the loan and 
provided Mr R with additional credit some seven months afterwards when it provided loan 2. 
It followed a similar lending process and it didnt carry out what I consider wouldve been 
proportionate checking given the loan term and amount and the evidence of financial 
difficulty apparent on his credit history. Also, Mr R had mentioned on his loan application that he had recently had a good pay rise and extra hours at work. So I think TFS should have 
thought more carefully about why he still needed an immediate loan to help in the short 
term. 
The fact that Mr R may have made his repayments to loan 1 on time doesnt mean that he 
was able to do so in a way that was sustainable for him. I think TFS should have considered 
the likelihood that loan 1 might have been at least part of the reason for Mr Rs apparently 
ongoing money problems  so it shouldve realised that increasing the amount of his loan 
monthly repayments would obviously be problematic for him. 
And had TFS done what I consider wouldve been a proportionate check it wouldve seen 
that Mr Rs financial situation hadnt improved and he was still spending a disproportionate 
amount of his income on what appear to be gambling transactions.   
To sum up, I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to conclude that it was likely Mr R would 
be able to repay these two loans in a sustainable manner.
In these circumstances, I dont think that it was fair and reasonable for TFS to conclude that 
Mr R would more likely than not have been able to make the payments to these loans 
without difficulty or borrowing further. So I think that its decision to lend in these 
circumstances was unfair. And whilst I've taken carefully into account everything TFS has 
said, including comments made in response to our investigators view, these dont affect my 
decision overall. Im grateful to TFS for setting out its position, and I accept that it takes a 
different view to me. But, for the reasons I have explained, I dont think TFS should have 
given either of the loans to Mr R. 
As he has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans that he 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that Mr R has lost out as a result of what 
TFS did wrong. 
So it is fair and reasonable for me to require TFS to take steps to put things right.
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think that TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr R in some other way. So I havent identified any reason for me to award any 
additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the capital amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr R shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed.
If TFS sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take the 
following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below and do the following:
 add up the total amount of money Mr R received as a result of having been given the 
loans. The repayments Mr R made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Mr R having paid more than he received, then any overpayments should 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement). If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr R keeping in mind the need to treat him positively 
and sympathetically if he needs further time to pay. 
 remove any negative information recorded on Mr Rs credit file regarding the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman