DRN-4055014
The complaint
Miss L complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited provided her with a poor 
service after she made a claim under her car insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2022 Miss Ls car was damaged when a third-party vehicle rolled down a hill into her 
parked car. 
Advantage said that the car was repairable, and it was recovered to storage by a breakdown 
company. The original allocated repairer was unable to complete the repairs, and so a 
second repair agent was assigned. The repairs were authorised in August and completed in 
October. 
Following return of the vehicle, Miss L complained that there were some issues with the 
repair.  Miss L said that her keyless antenna was damaged, there were areas of damage 
repair unsealed, the steering was creaking, and the diesel particulate filter (DPF) was 
blocked.  
Advantage partially upheld the complaint and paid Miss L £50 compensation for the poor 
service, but they didnt agree on the issue of the steering or the DPF, which they said was 
wear and tear. They repaired the keyless antenna and the sealant. 
 
Miss L was unhappy with Advantages response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ls complaint. He thought that Advantage should 
pay a further £300 compensation for the issues with the claim but didnt think that Advantage 
were responsible for the issues with the steering and the DPF.   
Miss L accepted our investigators view, but Advantage didnt and so the case has come to 
me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Advantage have acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with the terms of the policy when dealing with Miss Ls claim.
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Miss L and Advantage.  Im upholding 
this complaint and I will explain why. 
I can see from the claim notes that there was an initial delay caused by the vehicle not being 
collected from storage, and the first approved repairer rejecting the job. The car was 
eventually repaired and returned to Miss L in October. 
I consider that four months was longer than Miss L should have expected for a fairly 
straightforward body repair, and I can also see that Advantages communication was poor 
with no proactive updates being provided, and Miss L having to chase Advantage several 
times to get her claim and repair progressed.  
The situation was then aggravated by Miss L having to report that the repairs hadnt been 
fully completed. Although the car was returned to the repairer in December and corrected, 
and a courtesy car was provided, I am satisfied that unnecessary inconvenience was caused 
by this, which would not have been the case if the repairs had been completed properly in 
the first place. 
Advantage have accepted that some of the repairs werent completed to the required  
standard, and in December the repairer took the car back and corrected them. However, 
they dispute that the DPF blockage and the steering issue are related to the accident. 
Advantage have explained that the DPF is a device to filter diesel particles or soot from the 
exhaust gas of the diesel engine, and that it would only become blocked from usage. It cant 
therefore be related to the impact damage, and it wasnt caused by them whilst the car was 
in their care as it was mostly idle. They also say that the car passed its MOT test on 21 
October, before being returned to Miss L, and if the DPF was blocked at that time, there 
would have been a warning light indicating that. I note that Miss L has provided me with a 
repairers receipt for getting the filter changed, but Im satisfied that there is no evidence of a 
link between the blockage of the DPF and the accident or the repair, and so I cant fairly say 
it is the responsibility of Advantage to cover this cost. 
In respect of the steering fault, Advantage have confirmed that they test drove the car before 
it was returned to Miss L and they didnt detect any noise or problem with the steering.  I 
appreciate that Miss L has given me her testimony that she detects an issue when driving 
the car, but I havent seen any evidence which suggests that there is an issue, or that it is 
linked to the accident or the repair. 
    
So, Ive thought about whether the offer of £50 is adequate compensation looking at the 
overall service provided here, and I agree with the investigator that a figure of £350 is more 
appropriate. I note that Advantage have said that delay wasnt a part of Miss Ls original 
complaint, but it was mentioned in her original complaint to us as part of the overall service 
failings, and I consider the length of time the first repair took is relevant in the context of the 
quality of the overall service and repair, and so I am able to take it into account.  
Ive also taken into account Miss Ls testimony about the impact of the poor service has had 
on her and her ability to carry out her day to day activities including her work. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Advantage should pay Miss L an additional £300 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Miss Ls complaint and directing Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right as above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 Joanne Ward
Ombudsman