DRN-4016513
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the way Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) has handled their 
subsidence claim.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr and Mrs O made a claim under their buildings insurance policy with 
Zurich, when their property started to suffer from damage caused by subsidence.
Zurich accepted the claim, but Mr and Mrs O complained that it was taking too long to 
resolve. Zurich said these sorts of claims were complex in nature and took longer to resolve 
than other claims. Nonetheless, it identified that there had been delays and offered Mr and 
Mrs O £400 compensation.
Mr and Mrs O didnt think this offer adequately compensated them for the inconvenience 
theyd endured, so they referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter and thought Zurich should increase its offer of 
compensation by a further £200 to £600. Zurich agreed with our investigators 
recommendations, but Mr and Mrs O did not. So the complaint has now come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully at the timeline of events from when the claim was first logged in August 
2021, until the date of Zurichs final response letter, which was sent to Mr and Mrs O in 
December 2022. I can only consider events which have occurred up until the point that final 
response letter was sent to Mr and Mrs O. And I understand Mr and Mrs O have made a 
new complaint about ongoing matters in relation to this claim, which will be looked into 
separately at this service, under a new complaint reference.
For the events which occurred between August 2021 and December 2022, I can see there 
were periods of time when Zurich was proactively moving things along and chasing third 
parties, but that there were also delays caused, during times when I consider Zurich couldve 
been more proactively chasing third parties but didnt.
Ive considered the impact these delays have had on Mr and Mrs O. Mr and Mrs O have said 
 among other things  that, particularly during the warmer months of the year, when the 
subsidence is at its worst, they experience serious disruption to their daily life because two 
doors and a side gate are rendered unusable. This is in addition to the constant worry and 
uncertainty about how long the claim is taking to resolve. 
I can certainly appreciate Mr and Mrs Os frustration. And I sympathise with their situation 
and understand that it must have caused them significant inconvenience to be unable to use 
parts of their home for a prolonged period. However, I do think £600 is a fair level of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience they experienced. I say this because, in 
this complaint, Im only able to consider one particular summer in 2022 when Mr and Mrs O 
wouldve experienced this level of inconvenience for an extended period of time. And, along 
with all the other problems Mr and Mrs O had during the claim, I think £600 is in line with 
what Id award in similar cases, where the issues have spanned several months and there 
have been some delays and poor service during the course of the claim, which have 
impacted the policyholders quality of life in a similar way and for a similar length of time.
So, Im also going to require Zurich to increase the level of compensation in this case by 
£200, bringing the total level of compensation for this particular complaint to £600 in total. As 
I mentioned previously, a new complaint has been set up with this service about ongoing 
issues with the claim, and so well be able to consider anything thats happened after 
December 2022 and up until the date of any new final response from Zurich, under that 
separate complaint.
Putting things right
For this complaint, Zurich Insurance PLC must now pay Mr and Mrs O £600 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. It may deduct from this any amount it has already paid to Mr 
and Mrs O in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Zurich Insurance PLC to put things 
right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman