DRN-1770753
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from Close 
Brothers Limited.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers.
Having collected the car Mr noticed that the oil light had illuminated. He put more oil in the 
car but two days later the oil light illuminated again, and the car overheated.
Mr R returned the car to the supplying dealer and repairs were carried out to the coolant 
system and the thermostat. Over the next two weeks Mr R continued to experience the oil 
light illuminating. Then the car lost power and the ECU light came on.
The car was returned to the supplying dealer who found faults with the cylinder mis-firing. 
The spark plugs were cleaned but the garage said the problem may be due to non-standard 
tuning. Mr R says he wasnt made aware at the point of supply that the car had non standard 
tuning and says if he had been, he wouldnt have purchased the car.
Mr R contacted Close Brothers and asked to reject the car. Close Brothers arranged for an 
independent inspection. The inspection found that the issue relating to oil consumption was 
likely to have been developing at the point of supply and said replacement piston rings and 
oil seals were required.
In its final response, Close Brothers said there was no evidence of previous unsuccessful 
repairs and said it wouldnt accept rejection.
Mr R wasnt happy with the response. He said hed taken the car back to the supplying 
dealer within 30 days of entering into the agreement but hadnt been made aware of his right 
to reject. He also said the attempts at repair had failed.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there was no evidence that Mr R was given 
the opportunity to reject the car even though hed reported the issues with the oil within the 
first 30 days. The investigator also said that the issue with the oil consumption hadnt been 
resolved by the first attempt at repair and felt that Mr R shouldve been able to reject the car 
at this point rather than accept further repairs.
Close Brothers didnt agree. It said the evidence showed that Mr R had only taken the car 
back to the dealership once for repairs to the coolant system. It said Mr R had accepted 
these repairs and it didnt think it was fair to retrospectively suggest that Mr R shouldve 
been allowed to reject the car. It said that although the independent inspection identified an 
issue with the piston rings and oil seals, these issues werent identified when the car was 
assessed by the main dealer previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid.
Mr R and Close Brothers disagree about whether the car had an inherent fault. I order to 
reach a decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and determine, on the balance 
of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
An independent engineers report can help to determine whether a car is of satisfactory 
quality. In this case, the independent inspection found that the oil consumption was 
excessive and that the fault was likely to have been developing at finance inception.
Close Brothers has said that if the fault was developing at the point of supply it would have 
been identified when Mr R returned the car for repairs in December 2019. I can see that the 
coolant housing was replaced, and a wiring repair was carried out. I can also see that the 
system was oil bled, which suggests that there was a concern about oil leaks. Ive taken into 
account Mr Rs testimony that the car continued to consume oil excessively following these 
repairs. On balance, I think the fault causing excessive oil consumption was present at the 
point of supply but wasnt correctly identified during the first repair attempt.
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If 
the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. Im satisfied that the business 
has had reasonable opportunity to repair Mr Rs car. On the basis of the findings in the 
independent inspection, Im persuaded that the repairs werent successful. Mr R should 
therefore be allowed to reject the car because it isnt of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
To put things right, Close Brothers should allow Mr R to reject the car. It should refund the 
deposit and reimburse him for a week (pro rata) of his contractual monthly payment to reflect 
his loss of use when the car was first repaired, during which time he wasnt provided with a  
courtesy car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Close Brothers Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr R
Refund the deposit of £1500 together with simple interest of 8% from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund one weeks worth of monthly contractual payment of £70.08
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.

Emma Davy
Ombudsman