DRN-2622425
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S arent happy that TSB Bank plc hasnt refunded them £19,850 lost to an 
investment scam. They dont think the bank did enough to protect them.
TSB Bank says the transaction wasnt out of character for Mr and Mrs S and so it had no 
reason to question it. And it also says it doesnt think intervention on its part would have 
stopped Mr and Mrs V from proceeding in any case.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to 
uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
1. It is common ground that Mr and Mrs S authorised the scam payment of £19,850. They 
were duped by the scammers into transferring that sum to an account controlled by 
them. They deceived Mr and Mrs S by using genuine details of a firm for fraudulent 
purposes. Registered offices and trading names were copied, lending legitimacy to the 
scam. Mr and Mrs S checked the name of the investment company on Companies 
House and looked up the address. 
2. Mr and Mrs S were presented with convincing literature about a property investment 
opportunity and talked through the prospect with the scammers on the phone.
3. Mr and Mrs S decided to proceed with the investment and sent £19,850 to the account 
details provided by the scammers in November 2018. They expected a return on their 
investment after a year.
4. Before twelve months had passed Mr and Mrs S were contacted by the scammers again. 
They said that the company had been taken over and that theyd have to invest a further 
£30,000 to secure their original investment and still get paid the promised interest. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt have the money and grew suspicious. They contacted the bank and 
the scam was revealed. 
5. I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr and Mrs S were the 
victims of a sophisticated scam. So, although they did not intend the money to go to the 
scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions 
of the account, Mr and Mrs S are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
6. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
TSB should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
7. Im satisfied the £19,850 out of the account was sufficiently unusual that it ought to have 
prompted questions from the bank; it ought to have been concerned that Mr and Mrs S 
might be at risk of financial harm. A transaction as large as £19,850 was irregular activity 
on the account, particularly as it was being sent to a new payee. 
8. TSB has pointed to transactions of a similar size and says these demonstrate that the 
scam payment wasnt so unusual. The two of most significance are for £10,000 and 
£15,000 around five months before the scam. The first thing to note here is that the 
transaction are, individually, around £5,000 - £10,000 less than the scam payment. 
Though I appreciate jointly they are in excess of the scam payment, Im satisfied the 
individual amount of each transaction has to be taken into account. 
9. Second, Im satisfied the payments were made to an established payee. I asked TSB to 
provide evidence on this point, but it hasnt given much to show when the payee was set 
up; its only said it couldnt find a direct debit mandate. Ive asked Mr and Mrs S who the 
payee was, and theyve confirmed it is a savings account, held in their name, at a 
different bank. Theyve explained they regularly sent money to this account, though 
mostly for smaller sums. Because this was an established payee it makes the payments 
made to it are far less comparable to the scam payment. And a payment to a new payee 
generally carries a greater degree of risk of being subject to fraud, given the payee is 
untested. And Im satisfied this was recognised in industry best practice and guidance 
from the time of the transaction. Im also satisfied TSB ought to have been aware of 
those risk factors.
10. TSB hasnt provided any other information or evidence to say why it didnt find this 
payment to be unusual or suspicious in nature. 
11. TSB ought to have recognised the transaction was unusual and therefore represented a 
scam risk. The next steps would then have been to stop the payment until Mr and Mrs S 
could be questioned about it. That might have meant TSB contacting Mr and Mrs S 
directly or awaiting contact from them. 
12. Id expect the bank to then have questioned the purpose of the payment. It doesnt 
appear Mr and Mrs S were given a cover story by the fraudster, to use in the event of 
genuine contact from TSB. And so it seems more likely than not they would have 
explained the true purpose and the scam would have been revealed.
13. TSB has said it doesnt think intervention would have stopped Mr and Mrs S from 
proceeding, given how convincing the scam had been. Whilst I agree that this was a 
sophisticated, convincing and persuasive scam I dont agree with TSBs view here. It 
was the expert and professional in the relationship. And had it appropriately questioned 
Mr and Mrs S about the details of the proposed investment Im satisfied it would have 
been alarmed at what it was being told, given its knowledge of such scams. That ought 
to have then led to a strong warning about investment scams, such as the dangers of 
investing with non-regulated firms. and the provision of education on how to avoid them. 
Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have simply ignored what they were being told 
and proceeded. I believe its more likely than not they would have stopped, and the scam 
could have been prevented.14. As the scam ought to have prevented it stands that TSB ought to compensate Mr and 
Mrs S for their loss..  
15. In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from 
the payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for 
completeness, I will say that, it does appear that TSB acted quickly to try and recover 
funds. But it had already been several months since the scam had taken place and so 
the likelihood of funds being recovered was always going to be small. When the 
receiving bank responded it was to confirm that no funds remained. 
16. I have also considered whether Mr and Mr S should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. It is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the 
payment, Mr and Mrs S were still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what 
they were doing or the consequences of their actions. They had been presented with a 
convincing investment opportunity which TSB itself appears to agree was a sophisticated 
and persuasively executed scam (or else Id have to question why it though intervention 
would have made no difference). 
17. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, Mr and Mrs S were 
simply the unwitting and blameless victim of clever fraudsters. The bank was the 
professional in financial matters.
18. In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr and 
Mrs S for the loss they suffered, without any reduction, together with interest to 
compensate her for being deprived of the money she lost.  I am satisfied that had the 
fraudster not taken the money from Mr and Mrs S she would likely have used it 
elsewhere, likely to be invested. But its impossible to say what that investment might 
have been. And so I find its appropriate to award interest at the rate applicable to the 
account the funds came from. The bank should pay interest at that rate from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement.  
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should now:
refund Mr and Mrs S total loss of £19,850;
pay interest on that amount at the applicable savings account rate, from the date of 
the transaction to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman