DRN-3380278
The complaint
Miss U has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc unfairly turned down a claim on her 
pet insurance policy.
Miss U is the policyholder but in bringing this complaint shes been helped by her 
partner. But, for ease of reading, I will refer to his comments as being Miss Us
Miss Us policy is branded in the name of agents which may help to administer it. But as 
Pinnacle retains responsibility for all issues to deal with claims I will only refer to it in this 
decision. 
What happened
Miss U took out a policy for her dog, who Ill call L, in May 2021. In September 2021 she took 
L to the vets for a check-up and mentioned that shed noticed an occasional limp on his right 
hind leg but that he didnt appear to be in pain. The vets booked another appointment three 
days later to look into it. At that appointment the vets noted that Miss U reported L had:
right hind  occasional limp, not seen everyday, doesnt seem in pain, noticed for 6 months. 
Normal exercise both off and on lead.
The vet recommended x-rays, which they took at the beginning of October. The x-rays didnt 
reveal any significant illness or injury.
Miss U claimed for the costs of the treatment. Pinnacle turned down the claim. It said that 
Miss U had told the vets that L had been limping for six months, which was before her policy 
began. And, as the policy didnt cover any condition which showed signs or symptoms prior 
to the policy beginning the claim wasnt covered.
Miss U didnt think that was fair and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She didnt think Pinnacle needed to take any further action. Miss U didn't 
agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Its certainly not unusual or uncommon for pet policies to exclude cover for any illness, injury 
or condition that was present before the policy began. So if L had been limping, even if this 
was only occasionally on the same leg that vets treated in September and October 2021 
then it would be fair for Pinnacle to turn down Miss Us claim.
I note Pinnacle spoke with the vets about their notes. Ive listened to that call. The vet told 
Pinnacle that she stood by the accuracy of her notes made at the time. And in those 
circumstances that would mean that the symptoms Miss U was claiming for began before 
the policy was taken out and so would be excluded from cover.
Miss Us suggested that the vets made a mistake and that she might have been talking 
about another incident when L had been limping on a different leg. But I think thats unlikely, 
as I think the majority of vets would want to be sure they know exactly which limb theyre 
treating. Miss U said that the vets had contacted Pinnacle to confirm theyd made a mistake. 
But, as I've said above, Ive listened to the call when the vet spoke with Pinnacle and she 
said she stood by her notes. So I dont think the vet did say shed made a mistake.
Miss Us said that she wouldnt have allowed her dog to limp for six months without seeking 
treatment. I have no reason to doubt that Miss U is anything other than a responsible and 
caring pet owner. But that doesn't mean that L wasnt showing some symptoms some 
months before she took him to the vets. 
I note Miss L only mentioned the limp at a scheduled check-up, so it wasn't an appointment 
to treat the limp specifically and the vets notes say that Ls limp was intermittent and he 
didnt appear to be in any pain. The notes also say that L was exercising normally. So I can 
understand why the most responsible of dog owners might not think they needed to take 
their pet to the vet in a situation where the dog seems generally well and pain free with only 
an occasional limp. It follows that I dont think the fact that Miss U didnt take L to the vet 
sooner means that she didnt tell the vet that shed noted his occasional limp six months 
earlier.
Miss Us also said:
if they [Pinnacle] thought it was a pre existing condition they have not terminated the policy 
due to inaccurate information provided and are still receiving the money for the policy. Surely 
if they believe it was pre existing they would have either terminated this or increased the 
premium?
But I think shes mistaken. In my experience pet insurers won't usually cancel a policy when 
they find out a pre-existing condition hasnt been declared to it. Instead they simply exclude 
it from cover. And thats whats happened here. So I dont find anything untoward that 
Pinnacle hasn't chosen to cancel Miss Us policy or increased her premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman