DRN-3603848
The complaint
Ms B complains that Advent Insurance PCC Limited has turned down a claim she made on 
an income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Ms B took out a personal income protection insurance policy in 2008. The insurance was 
designed to provide cover if Ms B was unable to work in her insured role due to accident or 
sickness. The policy deferred period was set at six months, to match Ms Bs employers sick 
pay provisions. When Ms B took out the policy, she declared that she suffered from 
ulcerative colitis. At this point, an endorsement was added to her policy which stated that 
any claims for incapacity caused by colitis or a medically related condition wouldnt be 
covered. The policy schedule stated that the underwriter of Ms Bs policy would consider 
removing the endorsement if she had been treatment free for 12 months.
The policy renewed each year. In 2012, the relevant policy underwriter amended the criteria 
for considering the removal of a medical endorsement. From that point on, policyholders 
needed to be treatment free for 24 months. And underwriters wouldnt consider removing the 
endorsement for chronic or long-lasting conditions. Subsequently, in 2016, Advent became 
the underwriter of Ms Bs policy.
Unfortunately, on 2 October 2020, Ms B had to undergo major surgery after tests shed 
undergone earlier in the year had found rectal dysplasia. The surgery included a total 
colectomy and proctocolectomy. She was signed-off from work and made a claim on her 
income protection insurance policy.
Advent investigated Ms Bs claim and reviewed the medical records it had been sent. It 
retrospectively assessed whether the medical endorsement should have been removed from 
Ms Bs policy at an earlier date. However, it said that as Ms Bs condition was chronic in 
nature and as she underwent regular check-ups, the endorsement would have remained in 
place. It concluded that the medical evidence showed Ms Bs condition fell within the scope 
of the medical endorsement.
Additionally, Advent referred to the policy terms. It noted that claims for illness werent 
covered if the condition which led to a policyholders absence had arisen more than 24 
months before their absence began. In this case, it considered that the medical evidence 
indicated Ms B had had symptoms of the condition which caused the claim in 2011 and in 
2017. Both of these dates were more than 24 months before Ms Bs absence began. 
Advent asked Ms Bs treating specialist for further information, but the hospital was unable to 
provide this and Ms Bs GP was unable to comment. So Advent asked Ms B whether she 
would agree to an assessment by an independent specialist. Ms B didnt agree to this 
request. Therefore, based on the evidence it had, Advent concluded that Ms Bs claim was 
specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Ms B was unhappy with Advents decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think that Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. He 
acknowledged that following its retrospective assessment of Ms Bs ulcerative colitis, Advent 
had concluded that the medical endorsement for claims linked to that condition wouldnt 
have been removed. And he felt that the available medical evidence indicated that the 
condition which caused Ms Bs claim had arisen more than 24 months before she became 
incapacitated. So he thought itd been fair for Advent to turn down the claim.
Ms B disagreed. She provided evidence of a histology report which she said showed no 
active colitis had been found in her bowel. She felt that Advent should refund the premiums 
shed paid for the policy. She considered that Advent hadnt supported her in her hour of 
need. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms B, I think it was fair for Advent to turn down 
her claim and Ill explain why.
First, I appreciate that Ms B has been through a difficult and stressful time and I was sorry to 
hear of her ill-health. Id also like to reassure her that whilst Ive summarised the background 
to her complaint and her submissions, Ive carefully considered all shes said and sent us. 
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Ms Bs policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether Advent 
treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Ms Bs policy, as these form the basis of her 
contract with Advent. The policy provides cover if a policyholder becomes incapacitated and 
is unable to work for longer than their deferred period. In this case, Ms Bs employer told 
Advent that shed been signed-off work on 2 October 2020  meaning that her deferred 
period of six months began at that point.
Advent has defined what it means by incapacity on page 5 of the contract terms. This says:
An injury or illness certified by a doctor which totally prevents you from doing any part of 
your normal occupation, as shown in your certificate of insurance, or any similar work for 
which you are reasonably qualified. You must also not be doing any other job for payment or 
reward.
Advent has also set out what it means by an illness immediately above the incapacity 
definition. This definition says:
A sickness or disease which first occurs during the period of cover and which, within 24 
calendar months of the illness first showing itself, results in an incapacity covered by this 
insurance.
I think the policy terms make it clear that Advent will only cover a policyholders incapacity 
due to illness if that condition causes incapacity within 24 months of the illness presenting itself. Advent was satisfied that Ms Bs illness had presented more than 24 calendar months 
before it led to her being unable to work. So Ive carefully considered the available medical 
evidence to decide whether this was a fair conclusion for it to draw.
Ms B required a proctocolectomy after high-grade dysplasia was found in her rectum during 
a screening test. Ms B has kindly provided us with a copy of the histology report following 
her surgery in October 2020 which showed that extensive diversion colitis was found in her 
rectal stump, along with active chronic inflammation.
A letter from Ms Bs consultant gastroenterologist dated 9 July 2018 stated that Ms B 
underwent five-yearly surveillance of her rectal stump by flexible sigmoidoscopy. This letter 
went on to say:
Flexible sigmoidoscopy in October 2017 showed severe inflammationbut she could not 
tolerate enema or suppositoryand she is not keen to take any other medications either. 
We discussed the options including complete proctocolectomy, but she feels she is 
reasonably well now and is not keen to consider surgery for the time beingShe is aware of 
the potential risk of cancer in the rectal stump if it continues to be actively inflamed but she 
would rather have the regular surveillance.
Based on this medical evidence provided by Ms Bs treating specialist, it does appear that 
Ms B was showing at least one symptom of the illness (in the form of severe inflammation) 
which led to the claim both in October 2017 and July 2018  which were both more than 24 
calendar months before she became absent from work. I say that because the post-surgical 
histology report shows chronic inflammation in Ms Bs rectal stump. It also seems that the 
specialist identified that Ms B might require a complete proctocolectomy around two years 
and three months before the surgery was carried out. 
Additionally, Ive reviewed an earlier letter, dated August 2017, which says:
The last full colonoscopy was done in 2011 and describedsignificant diversion proctitis. 
From my own research, it appears that diversion proctitis is an inflammatory disorder which 
can occur in the colon and rectum.
I note that Advent did ask Ms Bs consent to share her medical records with an independent 
specialist so that they could review her claim. I think this was a very fair approach. Ms B 
didnt provide such consent and therefore, Advent had to make a claims decision based on 
the medical evidence it had. Based on the totality of the medical evidence, I dont think 
Advent acted unfairly when it concluded that Ms B had been suffering from symptoms of the 
illness which led to her claim potentially from 2011 and by October 2017. This meant that the 
illness had presented more than 24 calendar months before Ms B was signed-off from work. 
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Advent to conclude that her claim wasnt covered by 
the policy terms and to accordingly turn down the claim.
It's clear Ms B feels strongly that the medical endorsement should have been removed from 
her policy as she hadnt been undergoing active treatment for colitis for some time after the 
policy was taken out. As Ive already found that Advent was reasonably entitled to turn down 
Ms Bs claim, I dont think I need to decide whether her claim did fall within the scope of the 
endorsement. For completeness though, I note that from the 2012 renewal onwards, Ms Bs 
policy schedule stated the following:
On the annual renewal of your cover the insurer will review the renewal terms of your policy 
subject to any changes in your personal circumstances including your state of health. You 
should advise us of any changes to your state of health that have not already been disclosed. This could result in amendment to the above endorsement that would be 
confirmed in writing. (This is only in respect of medical endorsements and would not apply to 
chronic or long-lasting conditions and is always subject to the general exclusions on the 
policy as listed in section 6 of your policy wording "Circumstances when you cannot claim.
Advent did retrospectively review whether Ms Bs medical endorsement should have been 
removed. However, it concluded that given it considers ulcerative colitis is chronic and that 
Ms B was under long-term review, the endorsement would have remained in place. Based 
on the available evidence, I dont think this was an unfair decision for Advent to make.
Ms B has told us that following the decline of her claim, she had to borrow money from 
friends and family, and she felt Advent had effectively left her in need. So she feels it should 
refund the premiums she paid. While I can understand why she feels the policy was of no 
use to her, Advent had been insuring Ms Bs health since it started underwriting the policy in 
2016. I should explain its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if an insurer had 
started to bear risk, the premium a policyholders paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for Advent to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered while Ms Bs 
policy was active. 
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Ms Bs position, I dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Advent to pay this claim or to refund her 
premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman