DRN-3814687
The complaint
Mr D complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd (IFM) in September 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits 
in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
Mr D had built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd 
(Tata Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mr D had built up 12 years and 2 months pensionable service in the BSPS. His 
annual scheme pension as at the date of leaving the scheme in May 2016 was £12,061.60 
This would be revalued over the term to retirement by a prescribed amount (by                   
September 2017 it had been revalued to £12,373.92).
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed. This was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017  
under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. 
Members were told that if the re-structure was approved, they would have three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP
In September 2017, terms of the re-structure were confirmed enabling trustees of the BSPS 
to start to talk to members in detail. 
Mr D was concerned about what the announced changes meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and wanted advice on his options. He contacted another business 
(Firm A) to get advice. Since Firm A didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise on pension transfers, it introduced Mr D to IFM. It recorded the following information 
about Mr D in September 2017:
He was aged 53 and had a partner but was unmarried. He was in good health and 
didnt have any financially dependent children;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£38,000. He didnt expect his employment status to change in the foreseeable future;
His assets comprised his residential home, the value of which wasnt recorded. He 
didnt have any savings or investments;
His liabilities comprised a mortgage on his residential home and some unsecured 
debt but the outstanding amounts werent recorded;
After paying for bills and essentials, he had surplus disposable income of about £700 
available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) workplace pension scheme since 
June 2016. The total annual contribution paid into his DC plan was 12% of his gross 
annual salary. The value of his DC plan wasnt recorded. He was also on course to 
receive the full state pension at age 67;
Through his employment he had a lump sum death in service benefit based on a 
multiple of his salary; and
He was an inexperienced investor with very little knowledge and experience of 
investments. On a scale of 1 to 6 where 1 (Risk Averse) was lowest risk and 6 
(Aggressive) was highest risk, his risk profile was determined to be 3 or 
Conservative risk. This was defined as, You understand that you need to take 
investment risk in order to be able to meet your long-term goals. On this basis, you 
are willing to take a risk with at least part of your available assets.
On 14 September 2017, IFM produced a suitability report for Mr D. This explained that he 
had three options regarding his safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the transfer value offered by 
the BSPS was £289,252.95)
It was noted in the suitability report that Mr Ds primary objective regarding his safeguarded 
benefits was to retire earlier than the BSPS normal retirement age of 65. It was stated that 
he wanted to retire somewhere around age 60 if his financial situation allowed it. There was 
also reference to Mr D preferring to draw flexible benefits and to obtain control over the 
value of his benefits. The transfer value analysis (TVAS) showed that Mr Ds estimated 
revalued annual scheme pension at age 65 was £15,474.68 on the basis he took a full 
scheme pension only. It calculated the critical yield to match that benefit as 8.0%. The 
calculation assumed 0% ongoing advice costs. The critical yield at age 60  to align with the 
age at which Mr D wanted to retire  wasnt calculated.
IFMs adviser discounted the PPF and BSPS2 options and instead recommended that Mr D 
accept the transfer value of £289,252.95 and transfer to a PPP provided by Royal London 
for the following reasons:
You require the flexibility to control and tailor the frequency and amount of income 
you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit your circumstances, needs 
and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) income that your 
existing defined benefits pension would provide.You want to ensure you can retire when you want and do not want to take the risk of 
having restrictions in place when the scheme enters the PPF or it becomes the 'new' 
British Steel Pension Scheme.
You are prepared to accept more risk in return for greater flexibility over when and 
how benefits are withdrawn from your pension fund.
The costs associated with the recommendation were as follows:
Initial advice charge 
1.52% (or £4,392)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges
0.40% investment annual management charge deducted from the PPP fund value 
(the product charge was noted as nil)
The basis of the recommendation was that following the pension transfer, Firm A, 
who introduced Mr D to IFM, would provide ongoing advice regarding the 
management and investment of the recommended PPP. In connection with this, 
IFMs adviser stated in the suitability report, It is important that your funds and 
financial planning arrangements are reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that they 
remain suitable. I understand this service will be provided by [Firm A]. The cost of 
this provision can be paid directly by you or can be taken from your pension fund on 
an ongoing basis. This is something you and [Firm A] will need to discuss and agree 
on. The cost of that ongoing advice wasnt stated in the suitability report.
Mr D accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
IFM recommended that the PPP fund value be invested in Royal Londons Governed 
Portfolio 2 fund to align with Mr Ds Conservative risk profile. According to the suitability 
report, the Governed Portfolio 2 fund was appropriate for an investor who had a cautious 
attitude to risk over a medium time period away from retirement.
This complaint
During 2022, Mr D contacted this service to raise a complaint about the suitability of IFMs 
pension transfer advice. He thought that the advice had caused him to suffer a financial loss. 
We contacted IFM to tell it about Mr Ds complaint and to give it a chance to investigate the 
matter. But IFM didnt issue a final response letter to Mr D either accepting or rejecting this 
complaint. So the matter was referred back to us.
In October 2022, one of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended it be 
upheld because, in his view, IFM failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the 
PPP was clearly in Mr Ds best interests compared to the alternative options. He thought 
suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that IFM carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on 
the basis that Mr D transferred to the BSPS2, took benefits at age 65 and would be a 20% 
income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, she recommended that IFM pay Mr D £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
Mr D accepted our investigators assessment. IFM replied and stated that it didnt agree with 
the outcome and provided additional comments. In summary, it stated that its pension 
transfer advice was suitable for the following reasons:Mr D wished to secure death benefits and retire earlier than age 65;
Neither of these objectives couldve been met by the PPF or BSPS2;
While Mr D might have retained the transfer option under the BSPS2, it wasnt 
certain that the scheme would go ahead and there remained a risk that he could be 
transferred to the PPF which wouldve led to the loss of flexible benefits;
It was made clear to Mr D that the critical yield of 8.0% wasnt achievable but he 
disregarded this because he wanted to retire earlier than age 65; and
Mr D had the appropriate attitude to risk and capacity for loss to tolerate the risks 
associated with the pension transfer.
Our investigator considered IFMs additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change his 
view. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me to review 
and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of IFMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
COBS 4.2.1R: A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is 
fair, clear and not misleading
 
The suitability rules and guidance that applied when IFM advised Mr D were set out in COBS 
9.2. The relevant rules were COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.2R.
The provision in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;
(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of IFMs advice to Mr D, its necessary for me to have due regard 
to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Ds situation when IFM advised him
The situation for Mr D wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme.
The BSPS was one of the largest DB pension schemes in the UK with approximately 
125,000 members. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for BSPS 
members, many of whom had been largely passive pension savers and found themselves 
having to make major and irreversible choices about their financial futures. I think its fair to 
say that many members were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
future of the BSPS. As a result, I think it was essential for any regulated adviser making a 
recommendation to a BSPS member to have a detailed understanding of each of the options 
available and of their customers personal circumstances.
In the suitability report, IFMs adviser stated that as part of the restructuring of the BSPS, it 
was expected members would be presented with three options. It then went on to list those 
three options as stated above. But in its response to our investigator, IFM stated that there 
wasnt any guarantee the BSPS2 would go ahead and so couldnt be considered as a viable 
option at the time. I disagree. In my view, by September 2017 there was no imminent threat 
of the BSPS entering the PPF  on the contrary, there had already been an update in            
May 2017 that the key commercial terms of the RAA had been agreed, which was then 
approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Given that the whole purpose of the 
consultation was to prevent the BSPS entering the PPF, I think, by September 2017, it was 
more likely than not the BSPS would avoid entering the PPF by being restructured into a 
successor scheme  as it then did. And so I think its the case that IFM shouldve considered 
the BSPS2 as a viable option at the time it advised Mr D. Its arguable that IFM shouldve delayed its advice until more information became available but it chose instead to proceed 
and provide a personal recommendation to Mr D.
The PPF and BSPS2 options provided guaranteed lifetime income but there were 
differences between them for deferred members like Mr D. The PPF was designed to 
provide members with at least 90% of their starting pension value but the BSPS2 was 
designed to provide members with 100%. The PPF was likely the better option for unmarried 
members who expected to retire early or take the maximum tax-free cash available even 
allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the 
better option for married members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme 
normal retirement age of 65. The BSPS2 provided the potential for discretionary increases to 
the scheme pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to a PPP 
at a later date, if then deemed suitable. The benefits available under the PPP option would 
be dependent on the performance of underlying investments and annuity rates available at 
retirement  in other words, there were no guarantees regarding the level of benefits paid.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that IFM shouldve considered that the BSPS2 
was likely to be the better option for Mr D based on his personal circumstances and the 
uncertainty about when he would be able to retire. And so its my view that IFM shouldve 
only recommended a transfer to the PPP in favour of the BSPS2 if it could clearly 
demonstrate why it was in Mr Ds best interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Having considered the evidence, I agree with the investigators view that IFMs pension 
transfer advice to Mr D was unsuitable for largely the same reasons. My view can be 
summarised as follows:
The primary purpose of a pension is to meet the income needs of an individual during 
retirement. Mr Ds safeguarded benefits, accounting for 12 years and 2 months 
pensionable service, represented his most valuable asset. He had limited other 
assets that could be used to support his retirement income needs. Given the lack of 
other assets, IFM ought to have recognised that Mr D was likely to be heavily reliant 
on the value of his safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income 
to support his standard of living in retirement until state pension age. Given Mr Ds 
limited capacity for loss, I think it was important not to expose the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to unnecessary risk by treating early retirement, flexibility and 
control of benefits as a high priority at the expense of the primary income purpose  
unless there was a clearly suitable reason to do so;
According to the suitability report, the primary aim of the pension transfer was so that 
Mr D could retire early, somewhere around age 60 if his financial situation allowed it. 
But he was then aged 53 (at the time of the advice) and so couldnt access any 
benefits until age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. In my view, with such a time 
frame until pension benefits could be accessed, it made the case for a pension 
transfer at that time  for the sake of achieving possible early retirement from age 60 
 more difficult to justify;
I think the suitability report misled Mr D about the ability to take early retirement 
benefits under the PPF and BSPS2 options. It stated that retiring at age 60 under the 
BSPS would lead to a 18% reduction in benefits and that, Early retirement is unlikely 
to be an option under the PPF whilst the terms and conditions of the British Steel 2 
Pension Scheme are not fully known at this stage. The reference to the PPF is 
incorrect since members are entitled to take benefits early from age 55 onwards 
subject to a reduction. IFM portrayed the 18% reduction under the BSPS as a penalty. But it wasnt a penalty. Rather, the reduction was applied to reflect the fact 
that the scheme would have to support the income for longer than anticipated, and to 
protect the interests of scheme members generally. And so, based on what IFM said, 
its likely Mr D incorrectly believed he would be unfairly treated if he took benefits 
early under the BSPS2;
IFM stated in the suitability report that at age 65 the BSPS would pay Mr D an annual 
pension of £12,373. But that was the revalued pension figure as at September 2017 
when he was aged 53, so could be regarded as misleading. IFM attempted to show 
in the suitability report the early retirement pension payable under the BSPS at age 
60. It stated, For illustrative purposes only, if you were 60 now and drew your 
pension, it would be around £7,000 per year along with a tax-free lump sum of 
c£46,500. But that illustration was potentially misleading for an inexperienced 
investor like Mr D. This is because that figure of £12,373 would need to be revalued 
to age 60 before the 18% reduction for early retirement was applied  but IFM 
applied it to the revalued pension as at age 53. I think the way the information was 
presented may have misled Mr D to believe that the benefits payable by the BSPS 
(and therefore the BSPS2) at age 60 were lower than was actually the case;
IFM portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP 
wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting 
income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to 
Mr D so that he could understand accessing any of the available options early would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at age 65. So I think he made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position in this regard;
The basis of the advice wasnt to enable Mr D to retire immediately but instead at 
some indeterminate point in the future. The further away from retirement an individual 
is, the harder it is to establish a realistic income figure and whether early retirement 
would in fact be possible. There wasnt any certainty that Mr D would be financially 
able to retire earlier than age 65. I think it wouldve been difficult to calculate an 
accurate income figure with the timeframe to age 60;
IFM failed to obtain the necessary information relating to Mr Ds financial situation 
including his anticipated income and expenditure during retirement when assessing 
whether it was suitable for him to transfer out of the BSPS to achieve his early 
retirement objective. It may well have been the case that Mr Ds retirement income 
need couldve been met by the BSPS2 but IFM failed to establish this. Ultimately, 
however, theres insufficient evidence to demonstrate why it was in Mr Ds best 
interests to transfer at that time to achieve his early retirement objective or whether 
he could in fact retire earlier than age 65; 
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated 
with his safeguarded benefits being transferred from the scheme to Mr D. Those risks 
wouldve been retained by the BSPS2 had he transferred to that scheme  I cant see 
that there was any compelling reason for Mr D to take on those risks at that time;
Had IFM advised Mr D to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed 
suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 53;IFM recorded that Mr D wanted to transfer his safeguarded benefits to a PPP to 
provide greater flexibility when drawing benefits from his pension fund rather than 
have guaranteed lifetime income. Its unclear why Mr D apparently didnt value 
guaranteed income. He had received guaranteed income all his working life. So I 
think a guaranteed retirement income from another source such as the BSPS2 
before state pension age wouldve been valuable for an individual in his 
circumstances;
Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr D had any 
concrete need for it. Im not persuaded that it was appropriate for an inexperienced 
investor to relinquish the guarantees attached to his main retirement provision in 
exchange for more risk so that he could access flexible benefits in the future. Theres 
no real evidence that Mr D required the flexibility of irregular lump sums or variable 
income during retirement. But if he did require it, then any flexible needs couldve 
been met by his DC workplace pension. He joined that scheme in June 2016 and the 
total annual contribution was 12% of his gross annual salary. And hed also have 
access to tax-free cash under the BSPS2. This doesnt appear to have been 
adequately considered by IFM;
Mr D had surplus disposable income of about £700 available every month. Theres 
inadequate evidence that IFM considered saving some of these additional monies in 
either a pension, investment or savings account to provide flexible income or lump 
sums rather than transferring and losing benefit guarantees;
IFM recorded that Mr D wanted to have control over his pension benefits. But he 
appears to have been a largely passive pension saver up until that point. Theres no 
evidence he had experience of controlling, managing or investing large sums of 
money. In my view, Mr D had limited knowledge and experience to enable him to 
understand the risks involved in transferring his safeguarded benefits; 
It was noted that Mr D was concerned about a transfer to the PPF at a later date. 
While I understand that he may have been concerned about this, I dont consider a 
transfer to the PPF was an outcome to avoid. Under the PPF, Mr D wouldve 
received a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension. This contrasted with the 
recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. 
If Mr D was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF 
which would result in him losing 10% of the scheme pension, then I question why, as 
an inexperienced investor with a Conservative risk profile, he would accept the risk 
of transferring to a PPP which exposed his benefits to unlimited downside risks 
where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This doesnt make sense to 
me; 
The suitability report didnt mention that one of Mr Ds objectives was to change the 
format of his death benefits. But in response to our investigator, IFM stated that one 
of the reasons Mr D wanted to transfer to the PPP was because he wanted to 
secure death benefits. Im not sure what it meant by this but I dont think 
transferring to change the format of death benefits at the expense of the loss of 
benefit guarantees was suitable, particularly as theres no evidence anyone was 
financially dependent on him at the time. The priority here, in my opinion, was to 
advise Mr D about what was best for his own retirement provision. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Its my view that Mr D had no 
health issues at the time IFM advised him which might reasonably have prompted 
him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake 
of an enhanced safety net for his beneficiaries;The TVAS calculation showed that the critical yield to match the benefits under the 
BSPS at age 65 as 8.0%. This compared with a discount rate of 4.0% at age 65, as 
explained by our investigator in his assessment. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, 
and the lower projection rate 2% per year. Its my view that a required annual 
investment growth rate of 8.0% was incompatible with Mr Ds Conservative risk 
profile, discount rate and likely investment returns achieved by the recommended 
fund that was designed for cautious-risk investors. I think these factors showed that it 
was likely Mr D would be financially worse off as a result of the pension transfer;
Notwithstanding the above, I think the critical yield figure of 8.0% was incorrect. This 
is because the basis of the advice was that Firm A would provide ongoing advice to            
Mr D at a cost  but the cost wasnt taken into account when calculating the critical 
yield. Including that ongoing advice cost wouldve led to the critical yield being 
greater than 8.0%, which further increased the risk that Mr D would be worse off by 
transferring. In addition, the basis of the recommendation was that Mr D was seeking 
to take benefits at somewhere around age 60. If that was the case then I wouldve 
expected IFM to also calculate the critical yield figure at age 60 to enable Mr D to 
make an informed decision. But it didnt. I think this was a material oversight because 
the critical yield figure at age 60 wouldve been greater than 8.0% due to the shorter 
investment timeframe and impact of the initial advice charge on the required growth 
rate. This meant that Mr D wasnt provided accurate information about the level of 
investment growth required in the PPP to match the scheme pension if he took 
benefits early at age 60; and
In my view, the suitability report failed to meet the fair, clear and not misleading 
requirements of COBS 4.2.1R. It was generic with templated wording to describe               
Mr Ds objectives with the result that the recommendation wasnt sufficiently tailored 
to his individual circumstances. I think it lacked sufficient colour and detail. As noted 
above, it included misleading information regarding the ability to take benefits early 
under the PPF, understated the true critical yield at age 65 and didnt include the 
critical yield at age 60. I think these inadequacies in the suitability report led to him 
making an uninformed decision to proceed with a pension transfer when this wasnt 
in his best interests.
Conclusion
The transfer out of the BSPS was recommended on the grounds that it would meet Mr Ds 
objectives of achieving early retirement, income flexibility and control over investment 
choice. It appears to me that IFM placed greater emphasis on Mr Ds objectives, failing to 
assess whether the pension transfer was in his best interests and whether the objectives 
could in fact be achieved by transferring to the BSPS2. 
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why Mr Ds 
generic objectives wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for him to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees by transferring to a PPP at that time, especially in view of his 
good state of health and level of reliance on these monies to provide retirement income. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think IFM failed to give adequate consideration to the risk that              
Mr D couldnt financially bear the risks involved in the pension transfer. 
I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the PPP led to Mr D gaining 
any clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to the 
BSPS2 at that time. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IFM to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. 
Properly advised, I think Mr D wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 and his benefits would now 
be preserved in that scheme. I acknowledge that he had an aspiration to retire somewhere 
around age 60. However, he was at least several years away from that target retirement age 
when IFM advised him. I think its fair to say that plans about retirement can change over 
such a long period of time. Im not persuaded that theres sufficient contemporaneous 
evidence that supports the position Mr D wouldve started taking his safeguarded benefits 
which involved taking a regular income at age 60. And Im not convinced it could be 
reasonably determined at the time that the PPF was the likely better option for Mr D. And so 
I think, given his age and the lack of clarity surrounding when he would retire, the BSPS2 
was likely the better option for him based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 
the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits than the PPF. As such, the calculation on 
the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For clarity, compensation should be 
based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65 for the reasons explained.
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and our service upon completion of the 
calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr D accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge him for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; andtake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, IFM should pay Mr D £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr D the balance. 
If Mr D accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational 
Financial Management Ltd. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr D can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman