The com plaint 
Mr C i s unhapp y t hat S ainsburys B ank P lc didnt i ssue a replacement credit ca rd when his 
previous  card expired but co nt inue to maintai n that hi s credit account remains open. 
What h appened
 
In February 2018, Mr C s credit ca rd for hi s Sainsburys c redit a ccount exp ired and 
Sainsburys di dnt se nd him a replacement card. Mr C bel ieved that t his w as beca use the 
acco
unt had closed. B ut in 2021 he was i nformed by S ainsburys t hat the account remained 
open and that a replacement ca rd hadn t been sent to him beca use his a ccount had been i n 
arr
ears a round that t ime. M r C wasnt happy abou t this, so he r aised a complaint. 
Sainsburys l ooked at Mr C s complaint. The y confirmed t hat hi s account h adnt been closed 
and that i nterest had bee n accruing on the outstanding balance. Sainsburys al so confirmed 
that t hey made the decision to not i ssue a replacement cr edit ca rd in 20 18 because of the 
prior a rrears on t he acco unt.  
Mr C wasnt sa tisfied wit h Sainsburys response, so he referred hi s complaint t o this se rvice. 
One o
f our investigators l ooked at t his co mplaint. But they  didnt f eel that S ainsburys had 
acted unfairly  towards M r C in  how t heyd managed the situation, and so t hey di dnt uphol d 
the compl aint. 
Mr C r emained dissatisfied, so  the matter w as es calated to an om budsman for a f inal 
decision. 
What I ve deci ded  and why 
Ive considered al l the av ailable evidence and arguments t o decide whats fair and 
reasonable i n the circumstances of t his co mplaint. 
Mr
 C has aske d that this service considers hi s complaint abou t Sainsburys al lowing interest  
to accrue on hi s account while he believed the account was dor mant or cl osed. H owever, 
this aspect of Mr Cs complaint has already been considered by this s ervice under our 
reference                                   
and a final response was issued by an ombudsman on 19 
August 2021.
 In this final response, the ombudsman stated that Sainsburys were entitled to 
charge interest on Mr Cs account balance. 
Give
n that this aspect of Mr Cs complaint has already been considered by this service Im 
unable to consider it again here, and I wont refer to this aspect of Mr Cs complaint again.  
Page 1 of 2 
DRN-3473789Page 2 of 2 Mr C has stated that he believed the reason that no replacement card was issued following 
the expiry of the previous card in February 2018 was because the account was closed or 
dormant. However, Ive seen nothing to confirm or corroborate that Sainsburys ever 
indicated to Mr C that his account was closed or dormant, and I note that the monthly account statements that Mr C received continued to confirm the amount of credit that was 
available on the account for Mr C to use.  
Sainsburys have also confirmed that the reason they chose to not issue a replacement credit card on the account in February 2018 was because of the large balance outstanding on the account at that time, as well as the previous instances of the account bal ance 
exceeding the agreed credit limit and falling into arrears, and because theyd been made aware by Mr C that he was experiencing financial difficulties and was struggling to meet the 
required monthly account repayments.  
Sainsburys position here seems  reasonable to me, especially given that Sainsburys, like all 
credit providers, have a responsibility to ensure that their customers dont fall into unsustainable debt, if it can be avoided. Accordingly, Im satisfied that by not issuing Mr C a 
replacemen t credit card (so that he couldnt easily spend further on the account) at a time 
when Mr C had made Sainsburys aware of his financial difficulties, that Sainsburys were acting fairly and in -line with their responsibilities as a credit provider. And I also note that 
Sainsburys decision to not issue a card here is permitted by the terms of the credit account.  
Finally, I note that Mr C believes that he previously closed his account. Sainsburys have confirmed that this wasnt the case, including in their complaint response letter dated 24 
December 2021, a copy of which Mr C has provided himself to this service. However, in this 
same letter Sainsburys also advise Mr C that his account was defaulted for non -payment in 
December 2021, at which time all interest and charges stopped being accrued.  
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Sainsburys have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably towards Mr C in the manner that Mr C contends. And it follows from this that 
I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Sainsburys to take any further action.  
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.  
My final decision  
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.  
Paul Cooper  
Ombudsman  