DRN-1645684
The complaint
Mr B complains TSB Bank Plc hasnt refunded payments he says he didnt make or 
authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of the key events here.
In June 2018, Mr B says he was misled into signing up for a subscription for dieting pills. He 
thought he was ordering free trial samples and only had to pay for postage and packaging. 
Mr Bs ordered two sample products and his credit card was charged £2.95 for each 
respective item - Mr B hasnt disputed these payments. 
The credit card details provided by Mr B were then used by the merchant  who Ill refer to 
as P to take recurring monthly subscription payments of £79.31 and £69.71 under a 
continuous payment authority (CPA). Mr B noticed the payments and contacted TSB in 
August 2018. He says he didnt authorise any of the reoccurring payments  he only agreed 
to the initial £2.95 charge for each product. He says he didnt sign up to any subscriptions 
and did not consent to the subsequent payments. He asked TSB to refund the unauthorised 
payments that debited his account and stop all future attempts. 
TSB upon notification of withdrawal of consent from Mr B immediately loaded a payment 
stop to ensure no further payments are taken but said it wouldnt refund payments which had 
already debited Mr Bs account. It didnt raise a chargeback as Mr B had received the goods, 
not provided any evidence that he had tried to resolve the matter and/or cancelled the 
agreement, with P. Mr B said hed not received any confirmation of purchase, paperwork or 
communication from P so he was unable to contact them or return the pills. He said hed 
taken all reasonable steps to try and obtain Ps contact details but his attempts to trace them 
had been unsuccessful. 
The reoccurring payments continued to debit Mr Bs credit card account, even after the 
payment stop had been applied by TSB. 
In May 2019 Mr B contacted TSB again. It agreed to refund the debits taken from Mr Bs 
credit card account in September, October and December 2018. It also agreed to refund any 
interest paid. It credited his account with £25 compensation for the poor service and delay in 
refunding these payments. But it said as no bank error had occurred when the initial 
payments were debited from Mr Bs account, so it wouldnt be refunding any payments taken 
before the payment stop had been applied in August 2018.  
Unhappy with the service hed received from TSB and its refusal to refund all the disputed 
payments, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. 
Following our involvement TSB tried to contact P to obtain information  unsuccessfully. 
Our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. She accepted Mr B had 
authorised the two initial payments of £2.95 but hadnt seen enough evidence to 
demonstrate that Mr B had agreed to the CPA or that it had been brought to Mr Bs attention 
sufficiently. She wasnt persuaded that Mr B had consented to pay for a subscription once 
the free trial was over. Taking the relevant regulations into consideration she concluded TSB 
couldnt hold Mr B liable for the disputed payments.      
TSB later shared with the investigator what it believed to be Ps website details and a link to 
the full terms and conditions  which it said Mr B wouldve agreed to when signing up for the 
free trial pills. But the new information TSB provided didnt change her mind. She wasnt 
persuaded that the details TSB had provided were of the correct website. And even if they 
were, she hadn't seen any evidence that the subscription was made clear, she still hadnt 
seen enough evidence to show that the CPA was authorised. 
Having reviewed matters, I largely agreed with the investigators findings, but I thought the 
relevant considerations applied slightly differently than described by the investigator, so I 
wrote to TSB explaining this - making a small change to the redress outcome. I also 
addressed the points it had raised in response to the investigators view. I said my intended 
decision was likely to be; 
In short, TSB is generally required to refund the amount of unauthorised transactions. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). Where credit is involved in cases like this, the PSRs make provision for the 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 to apply in place of certain sections of the PSRs. These 
provisions cant be excluded by the account terms. The relevant sections of the CCA here 
involve a credit facility. 
The relevant provision is section 83 of the CCA 1974. This says a customer isnt liable for 
any loss from the use of a credit facility unless they (or someone acting as their agent) used 
the facility. 
I also note in this case were dealing with a distance contract  where payments were made 
and the card not present. Both the Payment Service Regulations and the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 make provisions for unauthorised transactions involving distance contracts. 
Mr B said he didnt authorise or agree to a CPA and is seeking a refund of the unauthorised 
payments that debited his account. He says he was misled into signing up for a subscription 
for dieting pills. He thought he was ordering free trial samples and only had to pay for 
postage and packaging. He ordered two sample products and his credit card was charged 
£2.95 for each respective item - he hasnt disputed these payments. Mr B says he didnt 
authorise any of the reoccurring payments  he only agreed to the initial £2.95 charge for 
each product. He says he didnt sign up to any subscriptions and did not consent to the 
subsequent payments. 
I note and understand TSB is holding Mr B liable as it believes he did agree to the CPA  so 
all the payments until Mr B contacted TSB to withdraw his consent it considers authorised. 
TSBs submissions also focus on why it wasnt able to do more under the chargeback rules 
and why it believes Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) doesnt apply. Firstly, I think its helpful if I explain that whilst chargeback and Section 75 are methods by 
which a bank can try to get a customers money back. Both the PSRs and CCA, make 
provisions for unauthorised transactions involving distance contracts  requiring the bank to 
refund any unauthorised transactions. So, my primary concern is to first come to a view 
about whether or not I think Mr B was sufficiently aware that he was starting a CPA with the 
merchant. If Im satisfied that he did, then I wouldnt ask TSB to refund the disputed 
payments. However, if Im not, then I would consider the CPA unauthorised and taking the 
above regulation into consideration ask TSB to refund the payments that were taken under a 
CPA. 
Ive considered what both parties have said and with respect to whether Mr B agreed to the 
CPA and theres not much more I can add to what the investigator has said. In summary; 
-Firstly, I have found Mr Bs testimony to be plausible, credible and consistent. 
-TSB says it is holding Mr B liable as he wouldve had to tick the box to confirm hed 
read and agreed to the terms and conditions. It has provided website details for a 
merchant who appears to have the same name as the merchant appearing on Mr Bs 
statements  but its unclear whether this is the correct merchant, particularly as they 
dont ship outside the US. So its still unclear to what terms Mr B actually agreed to. 
-Regardless, even if I were to accept this was the merchant Mr B paid, for his free trial 
pills, from what Ive seen the merchant terms and conditions do not make it clear that 
he was entering into a CPA or agreeing to a subscription. 
-Ive tried to access the website details provided by TSB to run through the purchase 
process, but the merchant website does not exist  there is no trace of it. This does 
not seem to support the merchant being genuine. 
-The payments are CPAs and to set these up the merchant is required to provide 
explicit information to a customer to make them aware theyre signing up to this type 
of payment arrangement. The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) had guidelines about how 
these should be set up. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has said the 
guidelines still apply, and I think they reasonably set out what merchants should be 
doing. Ive not seen any evidence to support this happened.  
-TSB have said Mr B had an obligation to review his credit card statements. If hed 
done so, hed have noticed the problem earlier. I dont dispute this, and it is 
absolutely good practice to review ones statements on a regular basis. But the fact 
Mr B didnt check his statement doesnt override the fact in all likelihood he didnt 
agree to the CPA and authorise the disputed transactions.
So, taking into account all the circumstances, I think its most likely that the initial two 
payments for £2.95 were authorised by Mr B for postage and packaging but the rest were 
unauthorised. Im not persuaded that Mr B agreed to a CPA or that TSB are entitled to hold 
him responsible for any payments taken by the merchant using a CPA. 
Lastly, I can see TSB paid £25 compensation for the delay in refunding some of the 
payments taken after Mr B had withdrawn consent. Our investigator recommended TSB pay 
an additional £50 compensation, and I think thats fair in the circumstances of this case.
To put things right I think TSB should; 
-Refund all the disputed transactions
-Refund any interest and charges as a result of the disputed transactions-Calculate and pay 8% interest from date of payment to settlement on any amounts 
Mr B paid towards the disputed transactions
-Pay an additional £50 compensation for trouble and upset
TSB responded and still disagreed asking for a formal decision. It said;
 
- it doesnt see how CCA section 83 applies in these circumstances; 
- it still believes Mr B authorised the payments and agreed to the CPA;
- it says Mr B entered his card details himself and has not provided any evidence of a 
contract for it to review;
- it believes it is was for Mr B to provide the evidence and not for it to find it;
- as relevant information is no longer available for any of us to see, any decision made 
now would be made on giving Mr B the benefit of doubt that he was mis-lead on the 
website; and
- it thinks a distance contract agreement allows the customer, without needing to 
provide a reason, to cancel their service or item in the first 14 days without charge or 
penalty and Mr B has not shown that he cancelled within this period. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, theres not much more I can add to what has already been said.
Ive thought about everything TSB has said in response to my intended decision, but its 
comments havent persuaded me to depart from the findings set out above. I still think Mr Bs 
complaint should be upheld.
I know its unfortunate that due to the passage of time contact with P cannot be made, nor 
can the website or terms and conditions be found. Of course it might have been possible to 
obtain the relevant information had TSB taken action at the time Mr B reported the disputed 
payments. And I appreciate since weve looked at the complaint, all of TSBs efforts, in trying 
to obtain information about P. But as Ive detailed in my previous correspondence, I cant be 
sure the information TSB has provided belongs to P and even if it does, I think its 
ambiguous and unclear (it does not clearly inform the payer that they are agreeing to a 
CPA). 
It also isnt enough for TSB to rely on the fact that Mr Bs credit card details were used or to 
suggest the responsibility to provide evidence is solely his. Mr B has consistently maintained 
his testimony that he did not agree to or authorise any payments other than the initial £2.95 
postage and packaging charge. P did not send him any emails, there was nothing in the box 
the pills arrived in and hed tried to find the website again but hadnt been able to. 
Consequentially hes not been able to get in touch with P to resolve the dispute with it 
directly. 
TSB hasnt shown that these payments were authorised by Mr B  either individually or that 
a CPA was agreed to. As it hasnt done so and I consider Mr Bs comments to be persuasive 
and his testimony credible; that he didnt agree to such payments, was not aware of the 
subscription and had exhausted avenues to obtain any information. Im not persuaded that it 
is fair that TSB hold Mr B responsible for the payments taken from his account by P before 
the payment stop had been applied in August 2018. Putting things right
In view of the above, I dont find that Mr B authorised or consented to the payments beyond 
the postage and packaging cost he initially paid for each product. The relevant regulations 
set out that liability for unauthorised transactions in such circumstances lies with the bank. 
So, I find that Mr B is entitled to a refund for all the disputed payments to P which debited his 
account after the initial payments. Interest at 8% is also payable up to settlement on any 
amounts Mr B paid towards the disputed payments. 
I note that TSB has paid Mr B £25 compensation for the delay in refunding some of the 
payments taken after he had withdrawn consent. But I think TSB has missed an opportunity 
here to do more, and sooner to help Mr B. And this warrants an additional £50 compensation 
for the trouble and upset. I think thats fair in the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I now require 
TSB Bank plc to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman