DRN-1419490
 
The complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr B took out a Barclays credit card in 1999. A few months later, Barclays sold him PPI over 
the phone to protect his card repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr B didnt agree, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case. 
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr B that he had a choice about taking out PPI and get 
his agreement before adding it. Unfortunately, Barclays hasnt been able to provide much 
information from the time of the sale. Although the PPI was sold over the phone Barclays no 
longer holds a call recording or any call scripts its adviser might have followed. Bearing in 
mind the time thats passed since the sale, I dont consider it unreasonable that Barclays 
cant provide more.
Ive carefully considered what Mr B says about how the PPI was sold, including that he 
wasnt told it was optional. But Im mindful that the PPI was sold after the credit card account 
had already started. This might have indicated to Mr B that he didnt have to take out PPI 
with his card. 
In addition, its now a number of years since the PPI was sold. In my view that makes it more 
difficult for me to rely on what Mr B remembers from the time. It could be that  
understandably after all this time  he was told he didnt have to take the PPI but simply 
doesnt recall that now.
Overall, I havent seen anything to make me think Barclays didnt make it clear to Mr B that 
he had a choice about taking out PPI. I think it just as likely the PPI was presented as 
optional to him, and that Mr B then chose to take it. 
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr Bs complaint but I 
dont think there are. Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr B. That favours him 
because it meant Barclays, among other things, should have looked into whether it was right 
for him. I cant say for sure what checks Barclays made. And I dont have a copy of the specific 
policy terms from the time. But, from what I know of Mr Bs circumstances and of the typical 
features of Barclays policies, I think the PPI was right for him. I say that because:
It seems Mr B would have been eligible for the cover. And there was nothing to 
suggest he was significantly affected by the exclusions to, or limits on, the policy.
While Mr B says he had savings worth around ten months pay, the PPI benefits 
would potentially have paid out for longer, at up to 12 months per claim. The benefits 
could well have allowed him to retain his savings or put them towards covering his 
other living costs if he was off work. So, I think the PPI provided Mr B with useful 
additional protection. 
The PPI appears to have been affordable to Mr B. And it was flexible in that he could 
have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if he decided he no longer wanted 
it.
 
As well as checking if the PPI was right for him, Barclays also should have given Mr B clear 
information about the policy so he could make an informed decision about buying it. I dont 
know what steps Barclays took to do this. And its possible some things werent explained as 
clearly as they should have been. But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mr B agreed to the cover 
and it looks to me as if it was right for him and was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information would have affected his decision to buy it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. Thats because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this 
case.
 
What the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Barclays should also pay back 
to Mr B any extra interest he paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr B the difference 
between what Mr B owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr B 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman