The complaint
Mr M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two 6-month instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr M in 
April 2016 and September 2016. Details of these loans are set out below.
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 27/04/2016 30/05/2016 150
2 09/09/2016 13/06/2018 300
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed saying if Lending Stream 
had done proper checks it would have realised he had a gambling addiction and not lent to 
him. So the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
This means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
DRN-1953560the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr Ms applications after asking for income and 
expenditure data and after completing credit checks and looking at third party data to 
understand his other credit commitments. And this information suggested that Mr M would 
be able to make the repayments he was agreeing to. So, in these circumstances it wasnt 
irresponsible to provide the loans.
I accept that Mr Ms circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained via the credit 
checks. And Mr Ms financial position as he now describes it might well have been apparent 
if further information  such as bank statements as Mr M says - had been obtained. But 
Lending Stream could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. 
It was the start of a lending relationship, and I dont think it was at the stage where there 
were any indicators that the borrowing might be unsustainable for Mr M, or indeed that he 
was borrowing to gamble. In these circumstances, I dont think Lending Stream needed to 
take further steps to complete a fuller financial review. Had Mr M gone on to apply for more 
loans from Lending Stream I would most likely, at a point in time, have reached a different 
conclusion. 
In addition, a credit check that a lender undertakes can take many forms. Generally, the 
information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be 
very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, 
this may explain any differences between the information provided to Lending Stream by its 
credit check and the information Mr M thinks it should have seen.Overall, I think that Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks and I havent seen 
anything in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to reach different lending 
decisions, or to ask for more information from Mr M prior to giving the loans.
It follows I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to give either loan to Mr M. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman