DRN-3221859
The complaint
Mr B complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) treated him unfairly, and 
unreasonably declined a claim he made under a legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr B held a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Haven, taken out through a 
broker  Company A.
Following an accident, Mr B sought to claim on his LEI cover. He spoke to Haven in 
March 2021 and said he wished to pursue a personal injury claim. 
Haven incorrectly told him he didnt have this cover included within his policy. And Mr 
B was directed to complain to Company A. 
Following some back and forth, Company A confirmed Mr B had taken out LEI cover. 
And following further communication, in April 2021 Haven confirmed Mr B did have 
LEI cover under his policy  but it said a claim could only be made related to a non-
fault claim (which was yet to be established). It also said legal expenses cover didnt 
extend to personal injury claims.
The complaint was brought to this Service and one of our Investigators upheld it. She 
said the policy was clear LEI insurance could only be relied on in the event of a non-
fault claim, and this wasnt established until late April 2021  some time after Mr B 
had initially made his enquiries. So, she was satisfied Haven was right to not pursue 
the claim at that time. She also said the LEI cover specifically excluded claims for 
personal injury. 
But the Investigator felt Havens service was lacking, and that it took too long to give 
Mr B clear information about his policy. As a result, Haven led Mr B to make various 
unnecessarily calls and mis-managed his expectations. So, she said it should pay 
him £100 in compensation.
Haven agreed, but Mr B didnt, saying he was unhappy the policy didnt allow him to 
claim for personal injury and that the impact of its misinformation was greater than 
suggested. Mr B also said he was told within his first notification of loss call with 
Haven that it would instruct solicitors for his injuries.
Our Investigator looked again, but didnt change her mind. While a recording wasnt 
available, she agreed Haven shouldve been clearer within its first call and following 
communications with Mr B that personal injury claims wouldnt be covered. And to 
put things right, she still felt £100 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Mr B still disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint on the same grounds previously explained by 
our Investigator. Ill explain why.
The claim
Mr B sought to claim under his legal expenses policy for a personal injury claim.
Under the policys general exclusions, it says it will not cover any claim arising from or 
relating to personal injury.
So, Im satisfied the claim was fairly declined. I understand Mr B feels strongly this cover 
should have been included with the insurance he took out, but this would be a matter 
between him and the broker of the policy  not Haven.
Service provided
Since our Investigators view, Haven hasnt disputed it shouldve been clearer with Mr B 
about the type of cover he had, and relevant exclusions under the policy that wouldve 
impacted the claim he wanted to make.
As Ive outlined above, the claim wouldve never been covered, so Im satisfied the impact of 
delays and miscommunication caused to Mr B are limited to distress and inconvenience. 
And it seems to me Havens actions led to Mr B making a number of unnecessary calls and 
wasting his time when it couldve clarified this matter within an initial conversation. As a 
result, Im satisfied £100 is a fair sum of compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Haven Insurance Company Limited must pay Mr B £100 in 
compensation.
Haven must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman