DRN-1840260
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2008 with a 
mortgage. Mr H and Miss M say that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-
sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr H and Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Where I dont have all the documents from the time of the sale, Ive looked at all the 
submissions to find what I think is most likely to have happened in this case.
Mr H and Miss M have said they recall agreeing to the PPI but only because they thought 
they had to. They told us they were not told the PPI was optional. Halifax has said the 
optional nature of the policy would have been clear. From what we know about the way 
these policies were sold, its more likely that Mr H and Miss M would have had to agree to 
the cover to get it, and they would have known they had a choice about doing so.
I note that the documentation from the time uses the language of choice. The letter dated 15 
May 2008 starts by saying, Thank you for choosing our Halifax Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP).
And the letter dated 14 May 2008 provided Mr H and Miss M with their mortgage offer. 
Section 9 describes the insurances the consumers had to take out through Halifax. It says, 
You do not need to buy any insurance through Halifax. It then provides details of the 
insurances taken and describes them as Optional Insurance. 
So, having taken everything into account, I think Halifax most likely made it clear that Mr H 
and Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this now, many years later.
Mr H and Miss M told us that they felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have no doubt 
this represents their best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective area 
and I have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mr H and 
Miss M only took the policy because they were put under pressure to do so.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr H and Miss M so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they were eligible for the PPI and they werent affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover. Mr H and 
Miss M told us they had some sick pay but couldnt recall how long it would last. And they 
also told us they had no only modest other means they could rely on, such that they might 
have had to rely on their family to help them make their mortgage repayments if anything 
went wrong. This policy could have paid out for up to 12 months if they were too ill to work, 
or if they lost a job. So, considering all of the above, and the potentially serious 
consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think the policy could have 
been useful to them.
The PPI appears to have been comparable in cost to other policies offering similar insurance 
at the time and it appears to have been affordable.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H and Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But for the same reasons that I think the cover was suitable for Mr H and 
Miss M, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the 
cover. 
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman