DRN-3722116
The complaint
Mr D and Ms Q are unhappy with the settlement provided to them under their travel 
insurance policy. Theyve said that AXA Insurance UK Plc havent included settlement for 
costs that should have been covered by the policy.
What happened
Mr D and Ms Q went abroad on holiday, on 25 May 2021  with them due to return home to 
the UK on 9 June 2021. At the time they flew out on their trip, there were various rules, 
provided by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) around travel and 
the Coronavirus pandemic. The country Mr D and Ms Q travelled to was on the green list  
meaning it was possible to travel there  and return, with evidence of a negative lateral flow 
Coronavirus test.
But, during Mr D and Ms Qs stay abroad, the rules in relation to the country they were in 
changed. The FCDO announced that the country would be going on the amber list, from
8 June 2021. This meant that the FCDO advised people not to travel to the country. And if 
already there, then when returning to the UK, people had to quarantine in the place they 
were staying and take two Coronavirus tests.
Mr D and Ms Q have said that because of this change in rules, they needed to return home 
from their trip early, so they didnt need to quarantine. So, they booked a flight that would get 
them home before the governments rules changed. The flight was for 6 June 2021. And 
they opened a claim under their travel insurance policy, for any loss.
Mr D and Ms Q have said they arrived at the airport to board this new flight on 6 June 2021. 
But, they, alongside a number of other passengers, were denied boarding. So, the flight left 
without them. The reason the airline gave Mr D and Ms Q for denying them boarding was 
that the lateral flow tests they had taken, werent sufficient. They said negative PCR tests, 
rather than negative lateral flow tests, were needed instead. 
But this was incorrect. Mr D and Ms Q have said the rules stated that lateral flow tests 
showing a negative result were acceptable. And that they had confirmed this by phone call 
with the airline ahead of time. 
The police arrived at the airport terminal, whilst the airline was denying boarding to 
passengers. And, Mr D and Ms Q have said that whilst the police were there, the airline 
accepted their mistake, and said they would provide seats on a new flight, free of charge. 
But, when the police left, this didnt happen. Instead, Mr D and Ms Q, amongst others, were 
told they would need to pay for a new flight, leaving on 7 June 2021. And Mr D and Ms Q 
were told the only seats available for them on this flight were one economy and one 
business class seat. So, they needed to purchase them. Which they did.
Mr D and Ms Q said they let AXA know of the above situation, both on 6 June 2021 and 7 
June 2021, and were told the cost of the additional flights they now had to purchase, as well 
as an airport hotel, would be covered by their policy. They said they checked this prior to 
purchasing new tickets, and again the next day, within the new ticket refund period. But as 
they were told the costs would be covered, they relied on this information. 
However, later AXA said it wouldnt be able to provide a settlement for the additional 7 June 
2021 flight. Or for the costs linked to this  such as the hotel and food costs. They said this 
was the airlines responsibility to resolve instead, because it was the party that had made a 
mistake. AXA did however provide settlement for Mr D and Ms Qs other costs in curtailing 
their trip  such as the flight booked for 6 June 2021, and car hire costs. And offered £100 
compensation, for any distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D and Ms Q. 
Mr D and Ms Q were dissatisfied with the above. So, they raised a complaint with AXA. AXA 
maintained its position. So, Mr D and Ms Q referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator noted that Mr D and Ms Qs policy did provide cover for curtailment of a trip. But 
that the insurance didnt extend to covering the airlines error  which made Mr D and Ms Q 
purchase additional flight on 7 June 2021.
In reference to AXA telling Mr D and Ms Q that the additional flight and hotel costs would be 
covered, our investigator said they had listened to call recordings between AXA and Mr D. 
And they were satisfied AXA hadnt confirmed the costs were covered. So, they didnt 
require AXA to do anything more.
Mr D and Ms Q didnt agree. In summary, they noted Mr D had asked for confirmation the 
additional costs were covered numerous times, and AXA did provide information saying they 
were. Mr D and Ms Q said that if they had been told otherwise, they would have cancelled 
their seats on the flight  as they were within the refund period for this. They also said they 
could have stayed abroad and returned on their original flight on 9 June 2021. 
Because Mr D and Ms Q didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything more here. 
I know this decision is going to come as a disappointment to Mr D and Ms Q. Its clear they 
feel strongly about the matter. But as above, Ive carefully considered all information from 
both parties when coming to my decision. Ive explained my reasoning for this decision 
below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether AXA 
acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle all of Mr D and Ms Qs claim.
Ive reviewed Mr D and Ms Qs policy documentation. I can see this does provide cover for 
curtailment  this being the need to end a trip early. The policy says it pays up to £5,000 for 
irrecoverable, unused travel and accommodation costs, and other pre-paid charges, 
alongside reasonable additional travel expenses, if a trip has to end early.But, as is common with policies of this nature, it will only do so, if the reason the trip has to 
end early is listed as covered under the policy. Ive looked at the list in Mr D and Ms Qs 
policy. And it does confirm it will provide cover where a government directive prohibits travel 
or recommends evacuation from a country, providing the directive came in after Mr D and 
Ms Q left the UK. 
AXA has accepted Mr D and Ms Qs for costs under this section. They have provided 
settlement for the 6 June 2021 flight Mr D and Ms Q booked to curtail their trip and return 
home early. As well as costs for returning their hire car early, and petrol to get to a different 
airport. As AXA has accepted these, and these arent in dispute, I havent considered these 
costs any further.
But what is in dispute here, is that AXA hasnt accepted costs related to a further flight. This 
being the flight on 7 June 2021, that Mr D and Ms Q purchased and took home  after they 
were denied boarding of their 6 June 2021 curtailment flight. As well as hotel and food costs 
linked to this.
So, Ive thought carefully about this. And Im satisfied the insurance policy doesnt provided 
cover for the cost of the additional flight on 7 June 2021. Or for the hotel and food costs 
linked to this. I say this because Mr D and Ms Q incurred these costs because of what 
theyve said was an airline error. Not because of the need to curtail their trip. 
The cancellation and curtailment section of the policy doesnt list the denial of boarding due 
to airline error as a covered event. And having looked at the remainder of the policy, there 
isnt another section which provides cover for this either. So, Im satisfied that the policy 
doesnt cover the flight on 7 June 2021, and the costs to enable this flight  such as the hotel 
and food paid out.
Mr D and Ms Q have said they were told these costs would be covered through  when they 
contacted AXA. So, Ive considered this too. This has included reviewing Mr D and Ms Qs 
testimony about what happened, as well as call notes from AXAs system. And listening to 
call recordings between AXA and Mr D on 6 June 2021 and 7 June 2021.
Having considered this, I dont think AXA acted incorrectly during these calls. On both calls, 
Mr D explained the situation, and that he had already booked new flights. 
In the call on 6 June 2021, Mr D said he wanted to check the flight on 7 June 2021 would be 
covered. As well whether he would be covered for an airport hotel. In summary, the AXA 
representative on this call said that usually what mattered when it came to cover, was that 
the country had gone onto the amber list. But as she wasnt in the relevant AXA 
department, the representative said she would send Mr D a text message with information, 
so he could give the relevant claims department a call in the morning in relation to the 
matter. As the representative didnt confirm the additional flight, and costs linked to it, would 
be covered, I dont think AXA did anything wrong here.
Mr D called back the next day  on 7 June 2021 - and spoke to the relevant claims 
department. Mr D had gone through security at the airport at this point  to board the 7 June 
2021 flight. 
Mr D told the AXA representative that he had purchased a new flight for him and Ms Q, and 
explained why this was. The AXA representative said she would add the information that Mr 
D provided during the call to his claim. She said she didnt see why the flights wouldnt be 
covered by the policy. But she didnt give any confirmation that cover would definitely 
respond. Instead, the representative explained this this would need to be double checked, 
and Mr D would receive communication in relation to this. So, I dont think Mr D and Ms Q were given information during this call, that reassured them the additional costs were 
definitely covered. So, Im satisfied AXA didnt mislead Ms D and Ms Q here either.
Mr D and Ms Q have said they wouldnt have boarded the 7 June 2021 flight, had they been 
told it wouldnt be covered by the policy. Instead, they would have cancelled the flight and 
returned home on their original flight on 9 June 2021. But AXA werent told that the flights 
were refundable, and that this was something Mr D and Ms Q would do. Instead, they were 
told the flights had already been purchased  on both calls. And, as above, AXA didnt 
mislead Mr D and Ms Q by confirming the costs would definitely be covered.
Mr D and Ms Q have said that it should have been possible for AXA to confirm cover whilst 
on the phone  it would have just meant AXA reading the terms and conditions of the policy. 
But, I wouldnt have expected it to commit to a full assessment and answer on the phone in 
this case. It would need to look into the matter first and validate the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. And this is what AXA did. So, I dont think AXA did anything wrong 
here.
Its clear the situation was very distressing for Mr D and Ms Q. And Im sympathetic to the 
upset and worry that being denied boarding would have caused. But I can only find AXA 
accountable if it did anything wrong here. And Im satisfied it didnt. So, I dont require it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman