DRN-2130894
The complaint
Mr T complains that the loan he had from Bamboo Limited was unaffordable to him and that 
it was unable to explain the settlement figures it gave him.
What happened
Mr T took out a fixed sum loan with Bamboo on 13 August 2018. He borrowed £1,000 and 
was due to repay £57.22 monthly for 60 months.
Mr T says that he was already in financial difficulties when he applied for the loan from 
Bamboo and that his monthly expenditure was almost the same as his income at the time. 
He says the repayments were unaffordable to him and that he should never have been 
approved for further lending. Mr T adds that the settlement figure he was given in December 
2019 was higher than that from March 2019 despite additional payments having been made. 
He says Bamboo was unable to offer an explanation, but that he paid an amount to settle the 
account in January 2020.
Bamboo says that appropriate and proportionate checks were carried out and that they 
showed the loan was sustainably affordable to Mr T. It says it carried out a credit check and 
used this to calculate Mr Ts debt repayments. It also used Mr Ts declared rental figure 
along with a third-party source for the typical average living expenses for someone in Mr Ts 
situation. It says its calculations showed the scheduled monthly repayments were affordable 
to Mr T.
 
However, although it says it does not uphold Mr Ts complaint Bamboo says it will accept his 
payment on 13 January 2020 as full and final settlement of the account even though it was 
less than the outstanding balance.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although he said that 
Bamboos checks didnt go far enough, he did not find that further checks were likely to have 
shown the lending was unaffordable.
Mr T responded to say, in summary, that Bamboo should have realised that his income was 
too low to service further debt as his outgoings were already incredibly high in comparison. 
He says that the other income in his bank account was further borrowing and that the 
Bamboo loan only made his financial situation worse. Mr T adds that he was shocked to 
discover he still owed more than the original loan even after making repayments for almost a 
year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Bamboo lent to Mr T. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Bamboo needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ts case, I have considered the 
following questions:Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ts 
loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, I can see Bamboo asked Mr T about his income and was 
satisfied that external data sources did not find this figure to be unreasonable. It also asked 
Mr T about his housing costs and looked at his credit file to calculate his credit commitments. 
Bamboo then used third party statistical data to estimate Mr Ts other regular expenditure. 
But Im not satisfied Bamboos checks went far enough in this case. The reasons for that 
are:
The loan was over a term of 60 months and Bamboo needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Bamboo said Mr Ts credit check showed 14 active accounts with an unsecured 
balance of over £40,000;
Bamboo used a statistical average for Mr Ts living expenses and, whilst I accept it 
may be reasonable to use such an approximation in some cases, I find it is not 
proportionate for this assessment because:
oIt estimated that more than a third of Mr Ts income was already committed to 
credit repayments, based on existing loans and minimum credit card 
repayments;
oIt was likely to have seen that three credit cards and two loans, totalling over 
£15,000 of credit, had been taken out in the year prior to the Bamboo loan 
application;
oIt was also likely to have seen that one of Mr Ts accounts was with a debt 
collection agency.
Bamboo estimated that Mr Ts disposable income each month was over £1,200 
which I dont consider to be consistent with the amount of debt he had, nor the need 
for a further high cost loan.
Altogether, I think Bamboo ought to have been concerned about the sustainability of the loan 
for Mr T and should have ensured it fully understood his financial situation.
I now need to consider whether, based on the information it should have had, Bamboo made 
a fair lending decision.
Ive had a look at Mr Ts bank statements and a detailed credit file from the time of the loan 
as a reasonable proxy for what Bamboo might have found out had it looked into Mr Ts 
finances in more depth.
Mr Ts monthly income was roughly in line with what hed declared to Bamboo, if not 
slightly higher;Mr Ts regular expenditure seemed to be at least double the figure estimated by the 
statistical data, but I acknowledge that it appeared some of the expenditure may 
have been considered a work expense for which Mr T was able to claim back;
Im satisfied that Bamboo used a reasonable figure for credit commitments at the 
time of the loan application;
In total, Mr Ts expenditure did not differ significantly enough from the figures 
Bamboo used in its affordability calculations to have made the loan repayments 
unaffordable;
Mr Ts current account was generally in credit and he didnt appear to be having 
problems managing his money.
So I cant conclude the loan was unaffordable to Mr T, nor that Bamboos lending decision 
was unfair.
Ive also considered whether Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. I 
acknowledge Mr T says he didnt understand the settlement figures he was given, or how his 
settlement figure was still higher than the original loan after almost a year. Im satisfied that 
Bamboo did nothing wrong in calculating the settlement figures in the way that it did and that 
it acted fairly and reasonably when it agreed to write off the outstanding balance once Mr T 
made his final payment.
In summary, taking all the available evidence into account, Im satisfied Bamboo wasnt 
irresponsible when it agreed to lend on this occasion, and that it didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman