DRN-2103290
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W have complained about five mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policies that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) sold them between 1998 and 2002.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2020, where I concluded that I was minded to not 
uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint. 
In summary, I found:
 Mrs W and Mr W initially arranged a mortgage with Lloyds in July 1996 and at the same 
time took out an MPPI policy that covered Mr W against accidents, sickness and 
unemployment. Mr and Mrs W then took out further advances in 1998, 1999, April 2003, 
October 2003 and 2004. They took out an MPPI policy in each of those occasions except 
for October 2003. In 1998 and 1999 the policy was in Mr Ws sole name. In April 2003 it 
was in Mrs Ws name only and in 2004 it was jointly in Mrs W and Mr Ws name.
 I concluded that all of the five policies were sold to Mrs W and Mr W in meetings with 
representatives from Lloyds. Although I couldnt be sure, I drew that conclusion by 
reviewing the paperwork that was submitted by Lloyds.
 In 1996 and 1998 understandably with many years passing, both parties couldnt provide 
much documentation. That said I hadnt seen enough to conclude Mrs W and Mr W 
werent given a choice to have the policies or that they were not suitable for Mr W.
 In 1999, 2003 and 2004, I was able to review sales documentation and also consider 
both parties recollections. Each of these sales were conducted where either Mrs W, Mr 
W or both signed a separate MPPI application form. On seeing this, I felt Lloyds more 
likely than not gave them a choice to have the cover. I felt the policies were suitable for 
them also.
 I was unable to conclude that Mrs W and Mr W would have necessarily declined the 
policies if the information they had received would have been any clearer.
 I concluded that I was minded to not uphold their complaint and invited comments on this 
from both parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W and Mr W have responded and reiterated some of the points within their complaint. 
They have said that the policies were sold through the post and not in meetings. They say 
they were only aware of two of the policies are were surprised to find out there were five, 
further supporting their complaint, that they were told MPPI was part and parcel of the 
mortgages they took out.
Lloyds has not provided any further information for me to consider.
I acknowledge what Mrs W and Mr W are saying regarding where the sales took place. I 
cant be sure where the policies were sold, but after looking through what Lloyds have 
submitted including the sales documentation that was during the times they were sold MPPI, 
used in branch sales, I think it is more likely than not the sales were carried out in a branch. 
As neither party has put forward any new points or additional evidence to consider further, 
I see no reason to depart from my findings and conclusion given within the provisional 
decision. So, I conclude that the policy was not mis-sold and I do not uphold Mrs W and Mr 
Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint and I do not make any 
award against Lloyds Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman