DRN-3072211
The complaint
Mr P complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has declined his travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr P has travel insurance which is provided through his company. This insurance is 
underwritten by AIG.
In August 2019, Mr P booked a trip abroad for a week, departing in early September 2020. 
The accommodation was booked as part of a timeshare agreement - Mr P has four weeks 
accommodation in total through this scheme, for which he has to pay an annual 
maintenance charge. 
As a result of the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advising against all but essential travel to the 
country Mr P was due to visit, he had to cancel the trip. He submitted a claim to AIG for the 
maintenance fee.
AIG declined the claim. It said that the maintenance fee would have to be paid regardless of 
whether he used the accommodation or not. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr P complained to AIG. He said that the maintenance charge 
has to be paid or he cannot use the accommodation, so he felt this was related to the 
accommodation cost. Mr P subsequently brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
The travel insurance policy Mr P holds includes terms and conditions relating to the cover 
provided, a Key Facts document which provides a summary of the cover, along with the 
significant benefits and exclusions. Under the heading Section B4.1: Cancellation, 
Curtailment, Rearrangement, Replacement, Missed Departure & Travel Delay, it states 
cover is provided for the following:
The cost of travel, accommodation and other trip expenses that have been paid, or 
are due to be paid under a contract and cannot be recovered, if the trip is cancelled 
prior to departure, cut short, rearranged or altered due to any cause outside the 
insured persons control (other than a cause that is not specifically excluded) as 
specified below.
If a trip has to be cancelled prior to departure or cut short following departure, the
irrecoverable deposits and advanced payments for transport and accommodation 
costs which have been paid or will be payable, or become payable under contract 
and cannot be recovered elsewhere.
Mr Ps claim is for the annual maintenance fee as part of his timeshare agreement. He has 
said that this is directly related to the accommodation costs as he cannot use the 
accommodation if he doesnt pay this fee  so he believes this is covered by this description. 
Whilst I appreciate his point of view, it seems to me that the annual maintenance fee isnt 
specifically part of the pre-paid trip costs  its the amount Mr P is contracted to pay to the 
timeshare provider each year, regardless of whether he uses the accommodation. So, Im 
not persuaded that AIG has acted unfairly by declining to cover the maintenance fee.
Phone call 
In mid-August 2020, just over two weeks prior to travelling, Mr P contacted AIG to discuss 
the cancellation claim. He says AIG told him he would be covered for the maintenance fee 
and so he went ahead with the claim. Im also aware that Mr P has said that he could have 
exchanged the accommodation for points but was advised not to do this by AIG in the call.
 
Having listened to the call, I accept that Mr P made it clear he was claiming for the 
maintenance fee and so AIG could have let him know at this point that this wouldnt be 
covered. However, AIG didnt say it would pay the claim  it simply agreed to review it. So, 
Im not persuaded that AIG led him to believe his claim would be met during this call. But 
even if this was the impression he took from the conversation, this hasnt impacted the 
overall outcome. Ill explain why.
Mr P has referred to the possibility that he could have exchanged the points, however, it 
appears that there is a limited window in which such exchanges are accepted, and this had 
already passed by the time he contacted AIG. And so regardless of the outcome of that call, 
it is unlikely Mr P would have been able to recoup his losses. It is important to note that, in 
any event, cover is only provided for irrecoverable losses - so I would have expected Mr P to 
have exhausted these avenues prior to attempting to make a claim. 
Conclusion
I do have every sympathy for Mr P. I appreciate he was unable to go on his trip for reasons 
completely outside of his control. Im sorry to disappoint him but in the circumstances of his 
complaint, and when taking everything into account, I dont think AIG has treated him unfairly 
when refusing to meet his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Jenny GilesOmbudsman