DRN-2853517
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc have been unable to resolve accessibility issues 
he had experienced with his online banking.
What happened
Since October 2020, Mr W has experienced continuing issues when trying to access his 
HSBC account online which result in Mr W being locked out of his account. Each time the 
issue occurred Mr W has contacted HSBC via email, which alerts the relevant HSBC team 
so that an account recovery telephone call can be initiated. Each recovery telephone call 
lasts approximately 45 minutes and Mr W finds these calls to be very stressful. Mr W wasnt 
happy with these continuing problems, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Ws complaint. But while they sympathised with the difficulties that Mr W 
was encountering, they couldnt find any evidence of any fault in their systems that might be 
causing these issues. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that HSBC had been able 
to demonstrate that there wasnt a systemic issue, and they noted that Mr W had been able 
to access his account when guided through the log in procedure by a HSBC representative. 
So, they also didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I can appreciate the frustration that Mr W has undoubtedly 
experienced here, I find it difficult to consider upholding this complaint in Mr Ws favour.
I say this because, ultimately, Im satisfied that HSBC have been able to demonstrate, 
through their own investigations and via their submissions to this service, that its highly 
likely that there isnt a systemic issue with their online platform that could be considered as 
being the cause of Mr Ws ongoing accessibility problems.
Furthermore, having listened to several recorded telephone conversations between Mr W 
and HSBC, its apparent that Mr W has been able to access his account when guided 
through the online login process by HSBC representatives.
For me to consider upholding this complaint against HSBC, Id need to be able to show that 
some form of error by HSBC, either by act or omission, is the cause of the problems that Mr 
W has been experiencing here.
But I cant find any evidence that this is the case. Indeed, given that HSBC have searched 
for faults in their systems and Mr Ws account parameters without success, and have guided 
Mr W through the online login process successfully on several occasions, its difficult to 
consider what more HSBC could have done to help Mr W in this instance. 
This isnt to say that Mr W hasnt experienced problems or that these issues havent caused 
Mr W considerable trouble and distress  its clear that this is indeed the case. But while I 
can acknowledge the difficulties that Mr W has encountered, I cant fairly or reasonably say 
that HSBC should be considered responsible for these difficulties, and I say this because I 
dont feel that theres any evidence to allow me to make such a statement.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting here but given that I cant find 
sufficient cause to consider HSBC as being responsible for the issues that Mr W is 
experiencing, it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking HSBC to 
take any further action at this time.
I hope that Mr W can understand, given everything Ive explained above, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman