The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are complaining about Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) because their 
endowment policy lost its qualifying status after they took partial surrenders. They think 
Zurich should have done more to warn them about this and to make advisers aware of the 
rule changes that led to it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out an endowment policy in 2001. In November 2016, they arranged a 
partial surrender to release some of the money that had accumulated. At the same time, the 
policy term was extended. Mr and Mrs G took a further partial surrender in September 2017. 
They say they were assisted by their independent financial adviser (IFA) on both occasions.
Under changes to the rules since it started, the Government introduced an overall payment 
limit for this type of policy. This applied to policies where the payment or term were amended 
after the changes were introduced. The fact Mr and Mrs G were paying above this limit and 
the term of their policy was extended in 2016 meant the qualifying status of their policy stood 
to be affected. The limit neednt have affected Mr and Mrs Gs policy if it was being 
maintained solely for the purpose of repaying their mortgage, but the qualifying status was 
removed anyway because they didnt complete and return the required statement in time. As 
a result, it appears the surrenders have led to an unexpected tax liability. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt the letter Zurich says it 
sent to Mr and Mrs G in 2016 explaining the situation, and which it says it copied to their IFA, 
shows it made reasonable attempts to make them aware of the situation. He also said it 
wasnt responsible for making sure their IFA knew about the changes to the rules.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept the investigators assessment and have made the following key 
points in support of their complaint:
Neither they nor their IFA received the letter Zurich says it sent on 22 November
2016. Given its importance, they wouldnt both have ignored it.
Theres no actual evidence this letter was sent to their IFA, beyond a note at the foot
of the letter addressed to them saying hed been copied in.
Zurichs process was weak. Its letter should have been labelled more clearly as
requiring action and it should have chased them when it didnt receive a response.
Theyve experienced further problems recently in connection with the stop/start
facility they exercised on the policy in 2019. Again, Zurich has showed a lack of
robustness in its process and clarity in its communication.
DRN-1946400What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The qualifying status was altered on Mr and Mrs Gs policy because they didnt complete 
and return statements Zurich says it sent them on 22 November 2016. Zurich has provided a 
copy of the covering letter, which appears to be correctly addressed, and the accompanying 
statements for Mr and Mrs G to complete. Its also noted at the foot of the letter that it was 
also being forwarded to their IFA, although Zurich hasnt provided a copy of a letter to him to 
demonstrate this actually happened.
Ive read the letter carefully and Im satisfied that it explains the rule changes clearly. I think 
its also clear that Mr and Mrs G needed to complete the attached statements to avoid their 
policies becoming non-qualifying. It says:
If we do not receive your completed statements by 16 February 2017, your plan will 
become non-qualifying for tax purposes. You will only need to pay further tax if you 
are a higher or additional rate tax payer at the time you take proceeds from the plan 
or if you are a basic rate tax payer and the gain takes you into a higher rate tax band.
The HMRC website provides information on the payment limit and examples of the 
impact of a plan becoming a Restricted Relief Qualifying Policy. See 
www.hmrc.gov.uk.
The notes accompanying the statements also say:
When does a statement need to be completed?
This form must be completed when changing the premium or the term of a qualifying 
plan or assigning a qualifying plan. If you dont complete and return the statement 
within 3 months of the change or assignment, the plan will become non-qualifying 
and any investment gain may be subject to further income tax.
I think the fact Zurich has been able to provide a copy of this letter is compelling evidence it 
was sent. By sending this letter, I think it took adequate steps to make Mr and Mrs G aware 
of the situation. If the letter wasnt returned as undelivered, I think it was entitled to believe it 
had been received. I understand why Mr and Mrs G believe Zurich should have tried to 
chase them when it didnt receive a response but there was no specific requirement for it to 
do so and I cant reasonably conclude it failed in its obligations because it didnt.
On balance, I think its likely Zurich did copy this information to Mr and Mrs Gs IFA if this 
was its normal procedure. But again, there was no specific requirement for it to do this so I 
couldnt uphold this complaint even if it could be established the letter wasnt forwarded.
I note Mr and Mrs G made a further partial surrender in September 2017. But the policy had 
already become non-qualifying by this stage so there was nothing that could have been 
done to avoid any liability this surrender created. To be clear, I dont think Zurich was obliged 
to inform Mr and Mrs G of the possible tax liability before the surrender was completed. It 
simply acted on the instruction they gave after consulting with their IFA. 
Further, in light of the 22 November 2016 letter and the fact it appears to have issued a 
chargeable event certificate relating to the 2016 surrender in July 2017, I think Zurich was 
entitled to believe Mr and Mrs G would have been aware their policy was no longer free of additional tax. Zurich has provided a copy of this chargeable event certificate and covering 
letter dated 2 July 2017, which again appears to be correctly addressed.
In response to a point raised by Mr and Mrs G in their original complaint, it wasnt Zurichs 
responsibility to train IFAs about changes to the rules affecting its polices and the potential 
impacts of such changes. As Ive said above, there was also no specific requirement to send 
copies of correspondence to Mr and Mrs Gs IFA in this situation, although I think that is 
good practice and the evidence indicates Zurich probably followed this. The central point to 
my view on this complaint is rather that Im satisfied Zurich took reasonable steps to make 
Mr and Mrs G aware of what was happening to their policy in a clear and understandable 
format that they could discuss with their IFA if required.
I can see Mr and Mrs G are unhappy about more recent dealings with Zurich, but I dont 
think that really demonstrates flaws in its process on an unrelated issue some years earlier. 
If they are concerned about whats happened recently, they can make a separate complaint 
to Zurich. But I cant address these concerns here as our rules require that the business has 
the opportunity to address a complaint before its referred to us.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G and isnt what they 
were hoping to hear. But on balance, Im satisfied Zurich took reasonable efforts to make 
them aware of what was happening to their policy and what they needed to do. I hope the 
explanation Ive provided will at least help them understand why Ive reached this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
James Biles
Ombudsman