DRN-2843652
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Aprite GB Limited mis-sold him a guaranteed asset protection 
(GAP) policy.
What happened
Mr G bought a new car on finance on 3 November 2017. The finance term was initially for 
37 months with the final payment falling due on 1 December 2020. Around the same time 
Aprite sold Mr G a GAP policy. The benefits of the GAP policy were that, if Mr Gs car was 
deemed a total loss or stolen, it would cover the higher of the difference between his 
comprehensive motor insurers settlement of his claim for the car and:
the invoice price Mr G paid for it; or 
any outstanding finance.
On 29 November 2020 Mr Gs car was stolen. At that time he found out his GAP policy had 
expired on 2 November 2020 and so no longer covered him.
Mr G said Aprite had told him that the policy would cover the full duration of his finance term, 
so should have covered him until December 2020. He brought his complaint about that to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think Aprite needed to take any further 
action. Mr G didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I've seen the papers setting out the details of the finance on Mr Gs car are clear that the 
payments would begin on 1 December 2017 and the last payment was scheduled to fall due 
on 1 December 2020. In contrast Mr Gs GAP policy covered his car from 3 November 2017 
to 2 November 2020. So, at the date his car was stolen, 29 November 2020, the GAP policy 
was no longer in place. 
Mr G said he wouldn't have bought a GAP policy that didn't match his finance term and hes 
sure that Aprite told him that it would cover the full finance term. In contrast Aprite has 
explained the process it went through when recommending the policy to Mr G. It told us that 
it went through Mr Gs demands and needs. When doing so, it said it would have told Mr G 
that it sold policies with terms that increased in 12 month periods. So it would have offered 
Mr G the choice of these policies:
24 months for £250
36 months for £350
48 months for £450
It said that the length of the GAP policy isn't necessarily linked to the finance term, as cash 
buyers can equally benefit from a GAP policy as well as those buying a car on finance. 
Clearly I wasn't there when Aprite sold the policy. So I can't know exactly what was and 
wasn't discussed. But, I've seen that when responding to Aprite's demands and needs 
questions Mr G signed a statement to say he anticipated keeping his car for 36 months. And 
as he signed that statement to say it was a true reflection of the discussion I'm satisfied 
thats what Mr G told Aprite. It was on the basis that Mr G said he would keep his car for 36 
months that Aprite recommended he buy a policy that would cover him for that period. I think 
that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr G said he thinks its unfair that Aprite would predict his intentions about whether or not 
to keep the car. But, from the evidence Ive seen Aprite only recorded what Mr G said his 
likely intentions were and recommended a policy on that basis. So I don't think it did attempt 
to predict anything, it simply responded to the information Mr G had given it. And in those 
circumstances I don't think it mis-sold the policy.
Further, I think its notable that Aprite initially recommended the policy on 14 October 2017 
and provided Mr G with policy information at that stage. And it wasn't until two weeks later 
that Mr G actually bought the policy. So, if he felt that the policy or its length wasn't suitable 
for his needs then he could have told Aprite he didn't want it and either bought a 48 month 
policy, although that would have cost him £100 more, or sought a policy from another 
provider. But he didn't do that. I don't think that was Aprites fault.
I also think its worth pointing out that Mr G actually paid off the finance for his car early, on 
11 November 2020. So, at the time the car was stolen, he was no longer eligible to claim for 
the difference between the motor insurers settlement for the stolen car and the finance for it, 
because there was no finance left to pay that was covered by the policy. And as such I don't 
think that, at the time of the theft, it matters that the length of the policy term didn't match the 
length of the finance on the car, as it wouldn't have been something Mr G could have 
claimed for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman