DRN-3031691
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2003 to
cover a loan. Mr D and Mr N say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold Mr N the 
PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr D and Mr Ns case.
Mr N was the person covered by the policy, so I have mainly considered his circumstances 
when the policy was taken out.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr D and Mr N aware that the PPI was optional and gain Mr Ns 
consent before adding it to the loan. Halifax has provided a copy of the paperwork available 
from the time the loan was taken out. There was a separate section on the application form 
where the option to take the PPI has been signed. There was also an option to decline the 
policy that wasnt signed. I think Halifax presented the policy as optional to Mr D and Mr N, 
and Mr N chose to take it.
I think Halifax recommended the policy to Mr N so it would have had to check that it was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was.
Mr N has told us that he wasnt entitled to sick pay and could have relied on his partner to 
help make repayments. But the offer of help from others cannot always be relied upon, while 
the intention is to help, circumstance can change, and this might not be possible.
Mr N wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to 
have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr D and Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think Mr N chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it could have been useful for Mr D and Mr N if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr N off taking out the cover.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr D and Mr N.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman