DRN-2955199
The complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) didnt complete a 
lasting and effective repair of her car following a claim she made on her motor insurance 
policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs B held a motor insurance policy with UKI. In 2014, she made claim for the damage to 
her vehicle. UKI accepted the claim and arranged and carried out the repairs.
Two years later, in 2016, Mrs B noticed the paintwork round one of her cars wings (the 
offside front wing) was beginning to blister. During the repair in 2014, the nearside front wing 
was replaced, but the offside front wing wasnt - it was simply repaired. After complaining to 
UKI, it agreed to replace the offside front wing too.
In 2020 Mrs B notified UKI that the paint was blistering once more, this time on both the 
nearside and offside front wings. Mrs B thought UKI needed to repair the damage as it 
carried out the repairs originally, and the policy said theyd be guaranteed for five years. 
UKI agreed to look at the blistering paint and asked a paint expert to look at the damage. 
UKI said that the report indicated that the damage wasnt caused by any poor repair and was 
more likely caused by either a defect in the paint coating itself or it was caused by the way 
the vehicle was stored. So, it didnt agree to carry out the repairs under the 2014 claim. It 
said if Mrs B provided a report to show that the damage was linked to the repair, then it 
would consider it.
Mrs B didnt agree with this. She didnt think UKI had shown that the problem with the paint 
wasnt linked to the repair and pointed out that the only part of the car effected was repaired 
by UKI.
But UKI didnt change its stance and so Mrs B brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend her complaint be upheld. He thought UKI had reasonably 
shown that the issue with the paint blistering wasnt linked to the repairs it carried out in 2014 
and then again in 2016. So, he didnt think UKI needed to rectify the damage.
Mrs B remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I understand it wont be the answer Mrs B 
was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
I can see in Mrs Bs policy that UKI says that if the repairs are carried out by one of its 
approved repairers then it will guarantee the work for five years  but Im not looking into that 
guarantee. When Mrs B made a claim back in 2014, UKI had a duty to complete a lasting 
and effective repair. And what Im looking into is whether its done that.
Mrs B thinks the problem with her paint blistering is linked to the repairs UKI carried out. She 
thinks this shows that it didnt carry out a lasting and effective repair. And I can see that 
perspective. Shes said shes owned the car since 2007 and had no issues with it prior to the 
repair in 2014. And I can see following the repair in 2014, the paint on one wing started to 
blister  which UKI eventually took responsibility for and repaired in 2016. In addition, I can 
see that the areas affected by the paint blistering now are the areas UKI repaired. Other 
areas of the car  untouched by UKI are unaffected by the paint issue.
But Im also conscious of the timeframe between the two issues. The nearside wing was 
repaired around six years before Mrs B notified UKI of an issue with the paint. And the 
offside wing was replaced around four years prior to UKI being made aware of the current 
paint issue. So, both wings now have issues, at the same time, but they were repaired 
approximately two years apart.
I also have to take into account the report UKI have provided which states that these issues 
arent linked to the repair and are more likely caused by the way the car has been stored  
so it thinks it did complete a lasting and effective repair. Ive seen notes which show the car 
often remains covered for alarge period of the year which UKI has said could cause a 
microclimate under the cover. The report notes that other areas of the car, which were 
repaired by UKI too remain unaffected.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that the paint issue with Mrs Bs car is 
related to the repairs UKI carried out. I think it is more likely than not caused by something 
else such the way the car has been stored. Had there been an issue with the way the 
previous repair was carried out I think its likely it would have manifested earlier. And I also 
think that this paint blistering happening on both wings  which were repaired roughly two 
years apart  at the same time points to the paint issue being caused by something other 
than the repairs UKI carried out. Especially considering other repaired parts are unaffected.
UKI has said that if Mrs B can provide a report to indicate that the paint blistering was 
caused as a result of the repairs it carried out in either 2014 or 2016 then it would consider 
this. UKI has also said it would look to reimburse Mrs B the cost of this report if it showed 
that UKI needed to repair the paintwork. And Im satisfied thats reasonable.
I can see we too have asked for any reports or further evidence from Mrs B about the cause 
of this paint issue, but weve not been provided with anything. Therefore, based on the 
available evidence, I think its more likely than not that the paint issues with Mrs Bs car have 
been caused by something other than the repairs UKI carried out in 2014 and 2016. And it 
follows that Im satisfied UKI need take no further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman