DRN-3037775
The complaint
Mr T complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifaxs decision to block his account 
without giving him a reason.
What happened
 In December 2019, Halifax blocked Mr Ts account. Mr T wasnt able to access the money 
in his account, and his direct debits and standing orders were cancelled as part of the block. 
Halifax informed Mr T that the issue could likely be resolved in branch. Mr T attended 
several branches, but his account remained blocked.
Mr T complained to Halifax and in January 2020, Halifax confirmed that Mr Ts account had 
a processing delay in place and therefore couldnt be used. The letter didnt give Mr T any 
indication of how long his account would remain blocked.
The investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint. He reached out to Halifax on a number of 
occasions for more information on why the block occurred so he could conclude whether 
Halifaxs actions were fair. Halifax didnt respond with sufficient information, so the 
investigator asked that they pay Mr T £500 compensation for the inconvenience.
Mr T responded and accepted things. Halifax responded and explained that the bank was 
complying with their legal and regulatory obligations at the time. So, they didnt agree they 
should pay compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Halifax should pay compensation to Mr T to put things right. Ive 
explained further below.
Halifax are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. I can see thats whats happened 
with Mr Ts account.
In order for me to be satisfied that Halifaxs actions were appropriate in the circumstances, 
Id need to see evidence of why their review was initiated, and what actions they took during 
the review. Halifax hasnt shared that level of detail with our service, so I cant confidently 
say their actions were reasonable. 
Following their review, Halifax decided to end their relationship with Mr T. Banks sometimes 
choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of reasons, 
and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer  only to meet the account closure 
terms and conditions. Just the same as if Mr T decided to stop banking with Halifax, he 
wouldnt have to explain why. Halifax can only close accounts in certain circumstances and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Halifax have relied on and complied with 
the terms and conditions when closing Mr Ts account and I do not think it acted unfairly and 
unreasonably. 
Ive thought carefully about the impact this overall situation had on Mr T. His account was 
blocked for some time, and he was told it could be resolved in branch. Mr T attended several 
branches to be told the issue couldnt be resolved and hed have to wait. I dont doubt this 
would have been inconvenient for Mr T and could have been avoided if Halifax didnt give 
incorrect information.
Putting things right
 Overall, I recognise the distress this situation had on Mr T and I havent seen enough to 
satisfy me that Halifaxs actions whilst the account was blocked were appropriate. So, I think 
a compensation payment of £500 is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should do the following:
Pay Mr T £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Ombudsman