DRN-3292699
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Insync Insurance Solutions Limited mis-sold their 
business interruption insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought a business protection insurance policy through Insync in October 
2018. The policy renewed in October 2019. 
Mr and Mrs H claimed on their policy after their business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. The insurer turned down Mr and Mrs Hs claim as 
they didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of their claim. Mr and Mrs H 
complained to Insync that the policy had been mis-sold. Insync didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint as it said it had sold them a policy which was consistent with their demands and 
needs. 
Unhappy with Insyncs response, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service.       
Mr and Mrs H said theyd been led to believe that the policy covered them for infectious 
diseases at their premises. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as 
he didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said the policy documents 
specified that they were covered for infectious diseases so Insync are at fault for selling 
something which didnt provide the cover it should have done. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have also complained about the insurers decision to turn down their claim. 
That has been dealt with in a separate decision. In this decision I can only comment on 
anything Insync, and not the insurer, might or might not have done wrong. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr and Mrs Hs business. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says, that when selling a policy, a 
firm should specify a customers demands and needs and provide a policy which is 
consistent with them. Insync sold this policy on an advised basis which means it has to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. It also has a general duty to provide 
information that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
The sale of the policy took place in 2018. Ive listened to an initial call where Mr and Mrs H 
discussed what type of policy they wanted and a second call where Mr and Mrs H amended 
some details and agreed to buy the policy. In the first call Mr and Mrs H said they were 
looking for cover for their business. They said their needs werent that great and were keen 
to receive a competitive quote of under £1,000. Insync said it could provide basic cover for 
buildings, contents and liability. Mr and Mrs H agreed to this. 
I didnt hear anything in the call to indicate that Mr and Mrs H required any specific cover for 
diseases. I accept that cover for closure for disease is something that may have been 
relevant to them and the policy did provide cover in the event of closure due to a notifiable 
disease manifesting itself at the premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that there was 
any reason why Insync should have discussed wider disease cover in October 2018. I also 
didnt hear anything in the calls to indicate that Insync told Mr and Mrs H they would be 
covered for infectious diseases which didnt manifest at their premises.
The policy renewed in October 2019. Again, I havent seen anything to indicate that cover for 
diseases was something that was discussed or that Insync told Mr and Mrs H they would be 
covered for an infectious disease that didnt manifest at their premises. 
Ive also reviewed the policy documents and havent seen anything in them to persuade me 
that Insync misled Mr and Mrs H during the sale or renewal of their policy. While the policy 
didnt ultimately provide cover for their claim, I dont think thats due to any error by Insync at 
the sale or renewal.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that Insync took reasonable steps to 
ensure the suitability of its advice and provided Mr and Mrs H with a policy that was 
consistent with the cover theyd asked for. The policy does provide cover for closure due to a 
notifiable disease manifesting at the premises and even though this didnt cover their claim, I 
dont think Insync misled Mr and Mrs H or provided them with information that wasnt clear, 
fair or not misleading. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs H were hoping for but, having considered 
the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Insync mis-sold their policy.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman