DRN-3858537
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the settlement Acromas Insurance Company Limited offered her for 
her car following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with its 
level of service. Mrs H wants the settlement increased. 
What happened
Mrs Hs car was damaged in an incident and Acromas declared it to be a total loss. It offered 
Mrs H £6,840 as the pre-loss market value of the car. But Mrs H thought it was a rare car 
and worth about £10,000. She was unhappy that Acromas didnt return her calls and that it 
sent her a payment when she hadnt agreed to this. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Acromas 
settlement offer was too low and it should be increased to £9,813, in keeping with our 
approach. She thought it should add interest to the difference in payment. She thought 
Acromas hadnt done anything wrong in sending Mrs H a payment. But she thought its 
communication had caused Mrs H frustration and upset and that it should pay her £50 
compensation for this. 
Mrs H replied that the prices for second-hand cars had increased since the incident. She 
also said that Acromas hadnt acted to retain her cherished number plates. Acromas replied 
that it disagreed with the increased valuation. It asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs H wants a fair settlement for the loss of her car. I can see that her 
policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The Investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Acromas said it had used two of the guides we use to reach a settlement figure of £6,840. 
But it didnt provide enough information for us to verify how it had reached this valuation. So 
our Investigator checked the guides we use and thought Acromas offer was too low and 
should be increased. Ive checked how she came to this conclusion. 
I can see that she looked in four of the motor trade guides we use for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage, condition and specification as Mrs Hs car at the date of its loss. 
She found valuations in all four guides, but the range of these was very wide. 
Our usual approach in such cases is to discount any outliers. And so normally we would 
discount the highest valuation which was an extreme outlier. But I dont think this would be 
fair and reasonable in Mrs Hs particular circumstances. This is because:
Mrs Hs car was a limited edition and rare, as shown by the fact that there was only 
one other example for sale with a specialist dealer at the time.
Mrs Hs car had particularly desirable specifications.
Mrs H provided an example of a very similar car sold for a higher price than Acromas 
offer.
Car valuation isnt an exact science. So I think a reasonable approach to obtain a fair 
valuation of the pre-loss market value of Mrs Hs car would be to discount the lowest outlier 
valuation and then take an average of the remaining three. This led to a valuation of £9,813, 
which I think is fair and reasonable as it takes into account our approach and Mrs Hs 
particular circumstances. 
So I think Acromas should increase its payment to Mrs H for the loss of her car to £9,813. 
And, as she has been without her money for some time, I think it should add interest to this 
increase from the date of the initial settlement to the date of payment. 
Mrs H has been caused trouble and upset by Acromas level of communication and its unfair 
valuation of her car. The Investigator recommended that Acromas should pay her £50 
compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published 
guidance.
Mrs H was unhappy that Acromas sent her a cheque without her agreement. But I cant say 
that it did anything wrong in making Mrs H an interim payment whilst she disputed the cars 
valuation. Mrs H was still free to bring her complaint to us. And I think this allowed Mrs H to 
mitigate any losses due to later price increases for used cars.  
Mrs H has raised concerns about retaining her cars cherished number plate. But I cant see 
that she has complained to Acromas about this and given it a chance to respond. So Im not 
able to consider this further here. 
Putting things right
I require Acromas Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Increase its settlement offer for Mrs Hs car to £9,813 and add interest at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum on the unpaid amount from the date of the initial payment to the date 
of final payment. 
2. Pay Mrs H £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
If Acromas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman