DRN-3543350
The complaint
Miss J complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) declined her claim on her 
building warranty. 
What happened
Miss J bought a new home that came with a ten-year building warranty provided by NHBC. 
In 2021 she made a claim under section 3 of the warranty after noticing a damp patch on the 
gable end wall of the property. 
NHBC inspected the damage but subsequently declined the claim. It said there wasnt 
physical damage to the home so it wouldnt be covered under section 3 of the warranty, as 
both a defect and physical damage are required for the warranty to respond. 
Miss J didnt agree and instructed her own expert to compile a report. This concluded that 
the cavity tray behind the wall was defective. And further investigation was required. Miss J 
provided the report to NHBC and made a complaint. However NHBC didnt change its 
position. 
Unhappy with this, Miss J brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that while there was no dispute over there being a defect, there hadnt been physical 
damage to the home so he thought NHBC had acted fairly by declining the claim. 
Miss J didnt agree. She said the warranty doesnt define what physical damage is 
considered to be, and NHBC were applying an unfair definition of the term. She said there 
was damage to the wall, timber frame and the damp insulation so this should be enough for 
cover to apply. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NHBC has declined Miss Js claim because it says there needs to be both a defect and 
physical damage for cover to apply under section 3 of the warranty. And it says there isnt 
any physical damage to Miss Js home. I need to decide if its acted fairly when making this 
decision. 
As part of this complaint Ive been provided with two reports. One from NHBC and one from 
Miss J who appointed her own expert. When making decisions, this service puts a lot of 
weight on the opinion of experts. As they have inspected the damage and have the expertise 
to comment on the causation and impact of the problem. Ive looked at these reports and 
they are both in agreement that there is a defect with the cavity tray and that there are no 
weep holes where there should be. So Im satisfied that the first part of the warranty 
requirement is met  that there is a defect.  
However in order for there to be cover under section 3 there also needs to be physical 
damage to the home. The warranty doesnt define the term, physical damage and when this 
is the case we apply a reasonable understanding of the term. 
In this context, after considering a range of dictionary and legal definitions, I think a 
reasonable definition of physical damage to the home is where there is damage that is 
tangible and that impairs the usefulness of the home. Essentially damage that is causing 
further problems to the home, outside of just the defect itself.
Ive considered both of the reports and I dont agree there has been damage to the home 
that would reasonably meet this definition. While both reports mention the damp patch on 
the external wall and on the timber inside, Ive not seen anything that suggests this is having 
any impact on the usefulness or general functioning of the home. 
Further, while both reports conclude the cavity tray needs to be replaced, this relates directly 
to the defect rather than damage caused by the defect. And in order for there to be cover 
there needs to be both. So damage to the cavity tray alone isnt enough to say that the 
warranty would fairly offer cover as this only represents the first part of the requirement - the 
defect. 
I note Miss J says that the insulation has been damaged and no longer functions. However 
neither of the expert reports make this finding. In fact both comment that there is no further 
moisture detected in the loft or the rooms below, which would be expected if the damp 
proofing had been compromised or its usefulness impaired.
Miss J has also said that the damp patch on the wall may impact the value of the property. 
Ive considered this but I dont think this alone means it would meet a reasonable definition 
of physical damage. From the evidence, the damp patch appears to be a largely aesthetic 
problem. And Ive not seen evidence to suggest it is impacting the usefulness of the wall or 
affecting other areas of the home. 
So from considering all the evidence available, I can see that while there is an identifiable 
defect, Ive not seen any expert evidence to show that this has caused what would meet a 
reasonable definition of physical damage to the home. I therefore conclude that NHBC has 
acted fairly by declining the claim on this basis. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman