DRN-4356513
The complaint
Mr I complains that an international transfer made to his account from a family member on 
26 May 2023 didnt arrive for an extended period. He says this has caused him stress, 
reputational issues and financial costs.
What happened
Mr I was sent money through an international transfer from a family member. He says that 
he didnt receive the money and the family member chased this and was told that the money 
was with Starling Banks correspondence bank. He had to chase for an update and says the 
money wasnt received until 20 June 2023. Mr I says the delay in the money arriving resulted 
in charges for the late payment of his rent and caused him stress and reputational issues.
Starling Bank says that Mr I contacted it on 28 May to ask about an international payment 
and he was told these normally take between one and five days to credit an account. Mr I 
then contacted Starling Bank several times to try to locate the money and provided the 
information needed to trace the payment. Starling Bank said that it told Mr I the money was 
with its intermediary bank and checks were being completed. A complaint was raised due to 
the time being taken to release the money.
Starling Bank then contacted Mr I on 20 June to say the money had received it. It requested 
some additional information from Mr I which he provided, and the money was released to his 
account. Starling Bank upheld Mr Is complaint and paid him £250 compensation due to the 
delays in the money being released. It said if Mr I provided evidence of other costs he had 
incurred it could consider these.
Our investigator didnt think that Starling Bank had provided the service it should have done. 
But she noted it had apologised for the delays in Mr I receiving the money and had paid him 
£250 compensation which she thought was reasonable.
Mr I didnt agree with our investigators view. He didnt think the compensation awarded was 
enough given the distress he had been caused and the costs he had incurred.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below.
Startling Bank has accepted that it didnt provide the service it should have. It has explained 
that the money was held with its intermediary bank for checks and it only received the 
money on 19 June 2023. It then contacted Mr I for some further information and the money 
was moved to Mr Is account on 20 June 2023.
As the money has now been transferred to Mr I the outstanding issue relates to the amount 
of compensation that should be paid to reflect the distress and inconvenience that Mr I was 
caused. Startling Bank has accepted that the transfer took an unacceptable length of time 
and paid Mr I £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I assess each case based on its individual merits. In this case I have considered Mr Is 
testimony and taking into account the impact he has explained the delay in receiving the 
funds has had on him I think it reasonable that additional compensation is paid.
I note that Starling Bank said it would consider any evidence of further costs Mr I was able to 
provide and I find this reasonable. Unfortunately, Mr I hasnt been able to provide evidence 
of the additional costs he says he incurred due to his rent being late and needing to borrow 
money. I do however note the reference on the transfer of funds was for living costs which 
would support Mr Is comment about needing to find money to pay his rent and general 
expenses while the money wasnt available to him. Mr I has also explained the mental stress 
this issue caused him and has provided a copy of medication he was prescribed in the 
period of the money being delayed.
Given the above, while I do not have evidence of specific costs Mr I incurred as a result of 
the delay, I accept this issue caused him a lot of stress. Mr I was chasing the payment 
during the delay period and provided evidence of the banking transaction to assist in tracking 
the payment. This further supports his testimony of the importance of the money to him and 
the stress caused by its delay.
I note Mr Is comment about how much compensation he feels he should be paid, but I have 
to consider that the banks are required to undertake checks and that when Starling Bank 
received the money from its intermediary bank it acted quickly to get the money transferred 
to Mr I.
Taking all of the above into account, I think Startling Bank should pay Mr I a further £250 
compensation (bringing total compensation to £500) to reflect the upset and stress he was 
caused by the delay in receiving his money through the international transfer.
I accept this isnt the amount Mr I wants but taking everything into account, and without 
further evidence of the costs he incurred, I think this is a fair resolution to this complaint.
Starling Bank accepted my provisional decision. Mr I didnt agree that the additional 
compensation recommended was enough. He said his complaint was never primarily about 
his financial loss but all of the non-financial damage particularly to his mental state and the 
impact this had on his family. He said the delay was unacceptable and avoidable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, I am sorry to hear of the experience Mr I has had when 
his family member made an international transfer to his account. Startling Bank has said the 
transfer should have taken between one and five days but in the case of Mr Is transfer he 
didnt receive the money until almost a month after the transfer was made.
My role isnt to punish Starling Bank but instead to try to put Mr I back in the position he 
would have been had the issue (in this case the delay) not occurred. Mr I did receive his 
money and so he is back in the position he should be but this was after a substantial delay.
I understand that the delay didnt just result in financial costs, and I have considered the 
impact the delay had on Mr I and I have taken into account his testimony in regard to the 
effect it had on his mental health and the impact this had on his family. I can see Mr I made 
several calls and I can hear on these that he is stressed by the delay and that he explains 
the impact including costs that the delay is having. I have taken this into account and have also considered the actions Starling Bank took in chasing the money and that once it was 
received that this was transferred to Mr I. 
Based on this, while I understand that Mr I will not be happy with my decision, I find that an 
additional £250 compensation is a reasonable resolution to this complaint.
Putting things right
Starling Bank Limited should pay Mr I an additional £250 compensation to reflect the distress 
he was caused by the delay in receiving his money. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Starling Bank Limited should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman