DRN-3698467
The complaint
Mr H says Unum Ltd has paid him incorrectly for a claim he made under his group critical 
illness policy. He says it is behaving unfairly by only accepting the claim at an earlier point 
when the sum assured was based on a lower calculation of his basic salary; this calculation 
didnt include bonuses or dividends. 
To resolve his complaint, Mr H wants to be paid the policys sum assured which he says 
applied at the date of his critical illness diagnosis.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 August 2022.  
I considered that this complaint should not succeed. I invited the parties to make any further 
submissions, after which I explained I would issue my final decision. I havent repeated the 
background here, as it is known to the parties. However, a full copy of the findings set out in 
that decision is provided in italics below.
Having reviewed everything carefully, I have reached a materially different view on the 
complaint to that of our investigator. I do appreciate this will be upsetting for Mr H, but on the 
evidence I have seen, I believe Unum was entitled to refuse to pay the full sum assured. Ill 
explain why I have reached this conclusion below.  
Group critical illness schemes allow set numbers of members to join or make some changes 
to their provisions at defined periods during any particular policy year (in this case, 
February), without prior underwriting. Because the insurer has not had the opportunity to 
individually assess the members circumstances, these types of cover include policy 
exclusions. Those exclusions are reviewed at the time a scheme member makes a claim.
It is for this reason (as our investigator has explained) the parties must review the policys 
terms and conditions in relation to exclusions when a claim is made. It is not the same as 
assessing misrepresentations from the outset in personal critical illness policies, where an 
insurer will have had access to an individual policyholders medical history before agreeing 
to offer cover. 
Mr Hs employers cover came with exclusions in respect of pre-existing conditions. This was 
contained in the defined Critical Illness Policy User Guide attached to the most recent policy 
schedule for Mr Hs employer dated 1 February 2020.  
Mr Hs diagnosis was confirmed on 10 June 2021. At that time, he had never suffered from 
cancer before, and a pre-existing condition exclusion did not apply. Unum was therefore 
obliged to pay a claim under the policy providing Mr Hs circumstances met the severity set 
out in the policy definition. This was the case and it accordingly accepted the liability for the 
claim the following month.  
The policy wording confirms that the benefit will be calculated based on the members 
insured salary at the date of their critical illness event. The group policy schedule effective 1 
February 2020 (the most proximate to the claim) confirms that for employees in Mr Hs 
category, the salary definition is basic annual salary as on the policy anniversary before 
the Critical Illness event.  
The policy anniversary date was 1 February 2021. So, the calculation Unum used for the 
claim it paid in September 2021 was correct. 
I recognise that the broker was in discussions with Unum to amend the definition used for 
the salary calculation. That was possible, because section 3 of the policy user guide allows 
the group scheme to agree the definition of the insured salary in a number of ways, including 
averaging variable payments (which would include irregular benefits such as bonuses or 
dividend payments).  
However, that arrangement had not started or become a contractual obligation between the 
parties at the date of Mr Hs diagnosis. And it is his diagnosis that is the relevant date for the 
claimable event becoming a payable condition under the policy terms.  
I do sympathise with the fact that the intention of the broker and Mr Hs employer was to 
treat the amendment as if it began at the policys anniversary date of 1 February 2021. 
However, no agreement was in place regarding that arrangement at the time of the insured 
event. 
And, even if it were, I do not agree a claim is payable to Mr H for the increased salary 
amount. That is because, the policys pre-existing exclusion condition would apply. Section 6 
of the policy explains that:
A member will not be able to claim for a critical illness where they were aware
of, or being treated for, a related condition on or before cover started. Some
related conditions are disregarded once the member has been covered under
the policy for 2 years.
The pre-existing and related conditions exclusions apply from:
When the member joins the policy
After a successful claim, and
To all increases in benefit that are not related to an increase in salary 
[my emphasis]
At section 8, the terms set out the situations where the parties can make changes or 
amendments to the cover. It says You can ask us to consider a change to the policy at any
time. Changes cannot be backdated. 
I believe that to be the correct interpretation of how these policies operate. Otherwise, an 
insurer of a scheme such as this could be subject to a policyholder backdating a change 
(such as adding additional cover or financial benefits in addition to regular salary increases) 
to the last renewal date, which could be a period before a claim had arisen. 
It has to be the case that pre-existing conditions exclusions arise from a defined point of risk 
acceptance on the part of the insurer and an agreement from the insured employer that a 
member has joined the scheme or amended their benefit upwards. So, if Unum is liable for 
higher sums assured of the employees under Mr Hs employers group scheme, that liability 
should exist from the point it is quoted from  and that was on 28 June 2021.  
The pre-existing conditions exclusion also confirms that no benefit will be paid for any 
medical condition or surgical procedure where the member was undergoing ongoing medical 
investigations or monitoring before the date of becoming a member, which led to the later diagnosis of a critical illness or related condition. I realise that Mr H was a member of the 
scheme from 2017. But, this extract is read in conjunction with the remainder of the pre-
existing conditions exclusion which determines that the applicable points are when a 
member joins, has a successful claim or has an increase in benefit aside from a pay rise.
At the time Unum agreed to the amendment of sums assured for Mr H and other affected 
employees as sought by the broker, he had been suffering with the symptoms of his 
condition since November 2020. I recognise these had subsided. However, they recurred in 
May 2021; on 24 May Mr H visited the GP and reported a recent worsening of his symptoms. 
I appreciate that though the text message and advice Mr H received that day did prepare 
him for the fact his symptoms were concerning, he did not know that these were confirmed 
as cancer until 10 June 2021. But the clause above doesnt rely on diagnosis; it relies on 
awareness or investigations  and Mr H had been given an urgent referral to a colorectal 
consultant. In any event, both the referral and the diagnosis came before the date Unum 
agreed the policy amendment. So, it had not yet agreed to a higher sum assured for Mr H. 
And accordingly, I cannot enforce Unum to pay a claim value for an event it had not yet 
agreed to insure. 
Ive explained earlier in this decision why insurers such as Unum use exclusions and 
moratoriums such as the two-year provision because entrants to group schemes are not 
underwritten. An insurer is entitled to protect itself from claims where a new entrant (or in Mr 
Hs case a policyholder who has increased his benefit) is suffering from an existing illness 
before the insurance goes on risk. To apply exclusions of this nature is standard practice for 
group policies of this type.
If Mr H had been applying for a standalone critical illness policy for the balance of his benefit 
calculation (with underwriting at outset), hed have been required to disclose his ongoing 
investigations. Insurers in those circumstances are highly unlikely to accept applicants who 
have ongoing investigations without a conclusion or diagnosis. In Mr Hs case, the symptoms 
he had were found to be a type of cancer. So it is right in this case that the pre-existing 
condition exclusion applies for the increased benefit as the change was not notified to Unum 
until three days after the investigations were underway, at the earliest. And, as Ive said 
above, the policy terms do not allow for retrospective amendments or backdating. 
The policy wording is clear that if a person suffers from a condition before a policy starts (or 
in Mr Hs case is raised to a new sum assured based on a benefit change other than a salary 
increase) then Unum can refuse a claim. On that basis, I agree that Unum did reasonably 
determine that Mr Hs condition existed and was diagnosed prior to it accepting the scheme 
amendment on 28 June 2021 as put forward by the broker on 27 May 2021. 
My provisional decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H. I know my provisional thoughts wont be what he or his 
representative have hoped for. 
But, I have to be fair to both parties in a complaint; and Unums policy wording is clear in 
respect of changes to the scheme and exclusions based on conditions that exist and are 
under investigation. So, I cant propose that the further balance of salary multiples is paid to 
Mr H because Unum had not agreed to offer that cover before the investigation of his 
symptoms, which went on to be a claimable critical illness.  
Unum said it agreed with my findings and made no further comment.  
The broker made a number of further submissions on Mr Hs behalf. He said, in summary:the provisional decision was a detailed and reasonable response;
however, he and Mr H feel there are some inaccurate or subjective conclusions;
in the letter of 25 May 2021, the GP referred Mr H for a private referral but he said he 
suspected Mr H may have a serious illness;
in a further letter of 15 September 2021, the GP had reiterated how the diagnosis of 
[Mr Hs type of rectal cancer] was first suspected on 24/5/21 and was confirmed on 
10/6/21;
in his opinion, Mr H has not fallen foul of the exclusion because at the time of the 
letter, cancer was only suspected;
Mr H did not know of and was not treated for cancer until after his diagnosis;
so, the information provided to Unum on 27 May 2021 was given in good faith;
Mr H was not aware of, or being treated for, a related condition on or before cover
started at that time full disclosure was made and submitted by the broker;
Unum didnt act promptly prior to accepting the scheme amendment on 28 June 
2021;
it also did not request GP information until 17 August, and accepted in the complaint 
outcome that it should have acted faster in relation to both matters;
it is his view that Unum has been able to manipulate the poor service levels to its 
advantage;
it has acted unprofessionally and this impacted Mr H at an already distressing time;
Mr Hs condition was not pre-existing at the time the quote amendment was made on 
27 May and thereafter accepted on 28 June by Mr Hs employer;
had technology been in place to quote and accept on the same day, Mr H would not 
have fallen foul of the time taken to put the new cover in place.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr Hs broker for taking the time to make further submissions for me to consider. I 
have read these in full. However, I am not minded to change my view on the complaint.  
I explained in my findings how I believe that Unums liability for Mr Hs higher sum assured 
under the group scheme applied from 28 June 2021  because that was the date at which 
the parties agreed and accepted the correct quote. 
I recognise that Unum agreed that there was a period of confusion when underwriting the 
new sums assured for the employer; the broker had asked it several times to included 
bonuses, and it missed these off. Unum said that though it provided several incorrect quotes, 
the bonuses were eventually rightly included from 28 June 2021. I have seen the letter to the 
broker of 6 September 2021 where it apologised for the delay in providing the correct quote.   
However, even if I accept the brokers hypothetical argument that the quotes for the 
employers group scheme could have been processed and accepted on the same day  so 
27 May 2021  I still do not believe the additional claim payment is due to Mr H.   
At the point a member joins the group scheme or has an increase in benefit aside from a pay 
rise then the pre-existing conditions and related conditions exclusions apply in the event of a 
claim. I explained in full in my provisional findings why group schemes operate through the 
use of exclusions and moratoriums. These group schemes cannot practicably be 
underwritten for each entrant at the outset, as happens with personal protection policies.  The broker says the exclusion doesnt apply because Mr H did not have awareness of his 
condition before the increase was made. However, on 27 May 2021 Mr H did know he had 
symptoms for which he sought medical support, and the GP letter of 25 May 2021 says, I 
am concerned that he appears to have a rectal cancer. 
But even allowing for the argument that awareness of symptoms differs from awareness of a 
condition, the pre-existing conditions exclusion that I have quoted in my provisional findings 
says how benefit will not be paid where the member was undergoing medical investigations 
before the date of joining (or in this case making material changes to benefit) which lead to 
diagnosis of a critical illness. So, even if Mr H could be said to be unaware of his condition 
on 27 May 2021, he did know his symptoms were being investigated by referral to a 
consultant colorectal surgeon on the suspicion that was suffering from cancer. 
So, I recognise Mr Hs condition was suspected but unconfirmed at the time of the referral. I 
also accept that there could have been a prospect of some other issue causing the 
symptoms Mr H was experiencing, given his respective age and circumstances. But that 
wasnt the case and sadly he went on to receive his cancer diagnosis on 10 June 2021.
That condition was the claimable event under Mr Hs employers group scheme, triggering 
the £300,00 claim payment on 7 September 2021. However, in respect of the amended sum 
assured, the policy exclusion(s) applied at the time the critical illness claim was made. 
As I concluded previously, the policy wording is clear that if a person suffers from a condition 
before a members cover starts (or in Mr Hs case his cover raised to a new sum assured 
based on a benefit change other than a salary increase) then Unum can refuse a claim. 
Unum has therefore not behaved unfairly in rejecting the complaint on this basis and paying 
the correct £300,000 sum assured when it received satisfactory evidence of a valid claim. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr H, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman