DRN-1662557
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) managed his direct 
debits after he switched to a different current account. 
What happened
In around April 2019, Mr C switched from one type of Halifax current account to a different 
account. At the end of September 2019, he noticed that some of his regular monthly 
payments had been paid manually that month rather than as direct debits. 
Mr C was unhappy about this as he thought that Halifax had automatically switched all his 
direct debit payments to the new account. He spoke with Halifax and was told he needed to 
contact the direct debit payees and ask them to correct their information about Mr Cs 
account. But Halifax paid Mr C £25 compensation because it said that it should have 
explained things better when he initially called them. 
However, some manual payments (rather than direct debits) continued to be paid in the 
period that followed. And after Halifax rejected his complaint about what he considered to be 
poor service surrounding the switch of his direct debits, Mr C brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence and arguments and didnt think Mr Cs 
complaint should be upheld. He explained that it looked like Halifax had notified the direct 
debit payees of Mr Cs new bank details when the new account was set up. He said that 
although some payments did later end up being paid manually, that didnt appear to be the 
fault of Halifax.  
Mr C has now asked me to make a final decision on this matter. He says that Halifax should 
have contacted the direct debit payees again when it realised that direct debit requests were 
still being made to the old account. He says its unfair that Halifax asked him to do that 
himself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
Mr Cs statements show that direct debit payments were paid from his new account for some 
months after the switch in April 2020. I think this is evidence that Halifax did notify the direct 
debit payees of his new account details.
Its not clear why some of the direct debit payees then appear to have made payment 
requests to Mr Cs old account in September and October. Mr C thinks that there must have 
been an error by Halifax. I havent seen any compelling evidence that Halifax did anything 
wrong. But even if there was an error by Halifax, I cant see that Mr C was significantly 
affected by this. The payments were still processed on time by Halifax as manual payments. 
And Mr C has suffered no financial loss.
Mr C has now contacted all the direct debit payees to notify them again of the change in his 
bank details. That appears to have solved the issue. I appreciate that contacting the direct 
debit payees in this way may have been an inconvenience to Mr C. But, having already 
contacted the direct debit payees when the new account was set up, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Halifax had any obligation to contact them again. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Halifax to ask Mr C to do this.
Ive also taken into account the fact that Halifax has paid Mr C £25 as it accepts that it could 
have dealt with things better when Mr C initially raised this issue. Having looked at all the 
circumstances and what Ive said above, I dont think Halifax needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman