DRN-3735521
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited handled some queries they 
made about their travel insurance policy. Mr and Mrs D said Avivas responses showed the 
policy provided to them included unfair terms. Mr and Mrs D said they also raised further 
questions with Aviva, and these werent answered, when they should have been. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, which started on 
31 December 2020, and concluded on 30 December 2021. Just before this policy was due to 
renew, Mr and Mrs D had some questions they needed to ask Aviva about the cover 
provided by the policy. Mr and Mrs D said initially they werent successful in reaching Aviva, 
to put their queries to it, and the policy renewed.
After renewal, Mr and Mrs D emailed their query to Aviva. Mr and Mrs D explained to Aviva 
that Mr D had qualified for a competitive sporting event abroad, due to take place in June 
2021. They said the event would last four hours. And that they were planning to holiday in 
the country where the event was taking place before Mr D participating in the sport. With the 
holiday lasting a week. 
Mr and Mrs D said they were concerned and unsure of the cover their policy would provide 
them in this situation. Mr and Mrs D said that Mr had looked at the policy terms, and it 
seemed the sport he would be participating in would be considered a multi-discipline event, 
and not covered under the policy. Mr and Mrs D didnt feel this was fair, as they said low-risk 
multi-disciplinary events, such as the one Mr D would be participating in, would be excluded 
from cover, and this didnt seem reasonable. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs D said when they read the policy, they were unsure if the remainder 
of their trip abroad would be covered. Mr and Mrs D said the wording read as if the whole of 
their holiday wouldnt be covered  because Mr D was participating in a four-hour event 
during it. So, Mr and Mrs D were asking Aviva whether their policy would provide any cover 
at all for the trip, or would just exclude things such as death, illness and injury caused by the 
event Mr D would be participating in. 
Aviva responded to Mr and Mrs Ds queries. In terms of the event Mr D was due to 
participate in, Aviva confirmed this would be considered a multi-discipline event under the 
policy. And the policy specifically excluded cover for participating in events of this nature. 
Aviva said it was its decision to exclude cover for these events. And so, it had acted fairly in 
saying claims arising from the event Mr D was due to compete in would be excluded from 
cover. 
In addition, Aviva said that whilst Mr and Mrs Ds insurance policy did provide cover for 
leisure activities on a recreational and incidental basis, it didnt provide cover when the main 
purpose of a trip was to participate in a leisure activity. Including participating in an excluded 
activity such as a multi-discipline event. So, it said Mr and Mrs Ds whole trip abroad in June 
2021 wouldnt be covered by the policy. 
Aviva did say that one of its advisors had told Mr and Mrs D that the organisers of the event 
Mr D was due to participate in would have insurance to cover the situation. Aviva said its 
advisor shouldnt have said that, not knowing if it was true. Aviva said it would be willing to 
provide Mr and Mrs D with compensation for this error  if they could provide evidence 
showing they had been inconvenienced by this incorrect information. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt think Avivas position was fair. They reiterated that the event Mr D was 
due to participate in was low risk. And they said that whilst the motivation for travelling 
abroad in June 2021, was for the event Mr D was due to complete in, the purpose of the trip 
wasnt simply the event  but as a general holiday too. 
Later, Mr and Mrs D had further questions of Aviva. They said Mr D had qualified for another 
competitive event abroad, this one in September 2021. Mr and Mrs D said their initial plan 
was to go abroad was to support their daughter, who was participating in an event at this 
time, as well as to have a holiday. But, since booking the trip, Mr D had been invited to 
compete in an event too. So, they again raised questions as to whether they would be 
covered by the policy in this instance.
Mr and Mrs D has said Aviva didnt respond to their queries about the second trip. So, they 
assumed they had cover under the policy for this. Mr and Mrs D are unhappy Aviva didnt 
respond to their questions  as Aviva had said to them, in its final response letter, that if Mr 
and Mrs D had any further questions, they should contact it. 
Because Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy with the above, they referred their complaint to 
this service, for an independent review.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs Ds policy was clear in saying that where the main purpose 
of a trip is to participate in a leisure activity there is no cover under the policy. They 
considered Mr and Mrs Ds main purpose for travelling abroad in June and September 2021 
was to for Mr D to compete in a leisure activity, and an excluded one at that. So, they didnt 
think Aviva did anything wrong in noting the trip in June 2021 wouldnt be covered.
Our investigator also noted that whilst Mr and Mrs D felt the events Mr D would be 
competing in were low risk  they were still a multi-discipline events, and Aviva had chosen 
not to cover those. They said this was Avivas decision to make, and the insurance policy 
had made this clear.
Lastly, our investigator noted that whilst Aviva didnt respond to Mr and Mrs Ds queries 
about a trip abroad booked for September 2021, they felt Avivas previous responses 
answered this question, and felt Aviva had no obligation to respond to this further.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. In summary Mr and Mrs D said:
They didnt think it made sense to exclude the events Mr D was participating in, as 
they considered them low risk. But they had no objections to Aviva excluding the 
participation in listed events in itself. They did feel however, that it was unfair for 
Aviva to exclude a whole trip, where such a tiny part of it (such as a four hour event), 
was participating in an excluded event. 
When considering going to an event, Mr D first considers where the location is 
somewhere they would want to holiday. If they would like to holiday there, Mr D 
would consider participating in the event. So, they said the main purpose of their trips 
was for holidays, not the events.
When they booked their trip abroad for September 2021 Mr D hadnt been given a place in a multi-discipline event. They were going for a holiday. The place in the 
event came after booking  showing the purpose of the trip was for a holiday.
Aviva should have answered their queries about the trip in September 2021 but 
didnt. 
Because Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules say that an insurer must provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information on an insurance policy, in the instance of a non-advised sale. And the 
sale in this instance appears to be non-advised. So, Ive thought about whether Aviva acted 
in line with these requirements. As well as whether it acted fairly and reasonably in how it 
dealt with Mr and Mrs Ds specific queries.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ds policy to understand what cover it provides. On doing so, I can 
see that the policy does provide cover for a trip abroad, including for claims arising from 
taking part in leisure activities on an incidental or recreational basis. So, Im aware that 
leisure activities  such as leisure swimming  on a general holiday are covered by the 
policy.
But, Im also aware that the policy has exclusions for certain activities. Page 22 of Mr and 
Mrs Ds policy booklet explains this. It says there is no cover for losses (injury, illness, death) 
whilst taking part in an excluded leisure activity. Excluded leisure activities are listed. And a 
multi-discipline event is one of these. 
Multi-discipline event
As above, the leisure activities section of the policy says that there is no cover whilst taking 
part in an excluded leisure activity. Multi-discipline events are listed as an excluded leisure 
activity.
During Mr and Mrs Ds trips in both June 2021 and September 2021 Mr D was due to take 
part in multi-discipline events. I say this because the events were made up of more than one 
discipline  including swimming and cycling. As the policy doesnt cover taking part in a 
multi-discipline events, such as Mr Ds events, Im satisfied Aviva gave Mr and Mrs D the 
correct information, when it said Mr D wouldnt be covered for taking part in the event in 
June 2021. And Im also satisfied it would be correct to say Mr D wasnt covered for taking 
part in the September 2021 event either. 
Im also aware the policy explains it wont provide cover for taking part in a leisure activity as 
a professional, or when taking part in a race, organised team competition or tournament. 
Both in June and September 2021 Mr D was competing in races. So, he also wouldnt be 
covered due to this. 
Ive thought about whether this was made clear to Mr and Mrs D when the policy was 
purchased. And I do think it was. Aviva provided clear, fair and not misleading information to 
Mr and Mrs D as part of their policy documents. Their policy booklet provides detailed 
information on the above. And, the fact there are some leisure activities excluded under the 
policy was drawn to Mr and Mrs Ds attention on the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID). Im also satisfied that when Mr and Mrs D asked Aviva about the event Mr D was due to take 
part in, in June 2021, Aviva gave Mr and Mrs D information in line with the above policy 
terms. So, I dont think it did anything wrong here. And I dont intend on requiring it to do 
anything different here.
Mr and Mrs D have said Mr D now accept losses arising during/from a multi-discipline event 
arent covered by the policy. Although they have highlighted, they dont agree a blanket 
approach to multi-discipline events is reasonable. They consider some multi-discipline 
events to be low risk. I appreciate what Mr and Mrs D have said here. But it is for Aviva for 
decide the level of risk it wishes to cover. It just must be clear about this to policyholders. As 
above, Aviva did make clear it wouldnt cover claims arising from multi-disciple events. So, it 
hasnt done anything wrong here.
Main purpose of travelling
Mr and Mrs D have also raised concerns that Aviva told him they werent covered for their 
trip in June 2021, in its entirety, because Mr D was participating in a four-hour excluded 
event. And I can see that Aviva told Mr and Mrs D this was the case.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ds policy in this regard and sought clarification from Aviva. And 
Aviva has maintained this is the case. Looking at the policy, I can see the following is noted, 
under the definition of Leisure activity:
There is no cover at all where the main purpose of your trip is to take part in a leisure 
activity.
Mr and Mrs D have said their main purpose for the trips in June and September 2021 wasnt 
to take part in the leisure activity. Instead, Mr and Mrs D have said that whilst the competitive 
events might be some of the motivation for going to be a particular country, the main 
purpose of the trip was a holiday. Mr and Mrs D said that in June 2021, the plan was to 
holiday in the relevant country from three days before the event, and then take some time 
out of the holiday for Mr D to participate in the excluded activity.
And in terms of September 2021, Mr and Mrs D said they had booked to go abroad and see 
their daughter compete in sport and have a weeks holiday. They said Mr D had no intention 
of competing in an excluded leisure activity whilst on holiday, at the time of booking this trip. 
But Mr D later got asked to complete in an event whilst there. So, Mr and Mrs D said the 
main purpose of the trip here was a holiday too. 
The policy doesnt define main purpose. But, using the ordinary meaning of the word, it 
seems to me this means the key reason for travelling. So, if the key reason for travelling was 
to take part in an excluded leisure activity, the whole trip wasnt covered. Mr and Mrs D were 
to spend the majority of the trips participating in a usual holiday  with a small part of the 
trips being a competitive, excluded leisure activity. Given this, I can see why Mr and Mrs D 
were confused as to whether Aviva intended to exclude their whole trip, or not. 
Mr and Mrs D have said they think it unfair of Aviva to exclude cover for the whole trip, when 
the majority of the trip would be a holiday, no different to other policyholders. I should 
highlight, it isnt for this service to tell an insurer what it should and shouldnt cover. It is for 
Aviva to decide what risks it is willing to accept.  
However, as above, the information provided to the policyholder needs to be clear, fair and 
not misleading. This being so the policyholder can make an informed choice as to whether 
the policy suits their needs.Ive thought about whether Aviva made the above exclusion to cover clear to Mr and Mrs D, 
at his policy renewal. And I dont think it did. As above, I dont think it is clear what Aviva 
considers when noting the words main purpose of the trip. And, because the effect of the 
exclusion is to exclude an entire trip abroad, I consider that Aviva needed to bring this term 
to the policyholders attention.
I dont think Aviva did this. The exclusion is listed under the definition of leisure activity in the 
policy booklet. And nowhere else. So, it isnt in a place a policyholder would usually look to 
understand what is excluded under the policy. The IPID doesnt refer to this exclusion either. 
It simply says that any leisure activity on a list in the policy documents isnt covered. 
When Mr and Mrs D asked about the trip due in June 2021, they were provided with 
information to say the whole trip wouldnt be covered. But Mr and Mrs D had already taken 
out the policy at this point. So, it was too late for them to make an informed choice about the 
purchase of the policy at that point. 
Given the above, I dont think Aviva did enough to make the above exclusion clear to Mr and 
Mrs D. With this in mind, Ive thought about what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, to put this above right. 
I considered whether the policy premium as a whole should be refunded to Mr and Mrs D. 
But I dont think thats what Aviva should do. Mr and Mrs D had purchased an annual multi-
trip insurance, meant for retail customers. The policy did provide cover for Mr and Mrs D, for 
any number of trips taken abroad within the policy year. Not just the trips due to take place in 
June and September 2021. And the policy did provide cover for various risks under the 
policy. Mr and Mrs D have highlighted that they were happy to go on holidays without 
competing, such as was Mr Ds initial intention for September 2021. And so, the policy would 
have been of use to them. 
Im also not aware of any financial loss Mr and Mrs D has had because of the above. I cant 
see they took out another policy elsewhere or suffered any loss that would give rise to a 
claim under the policy. So, Im not intending to require Aviva to pay anything in that respect 
to Mr and Mrs D. 
But I do consider it would be fair and reasonable to provide Mr and Mrs D with some 
compensation for the trouble and upset the situation has caused to them. I can appreciate 
the confusion Mr and Mrs D experienced when attempting to understand whether the policy 
was excluding their trips in June and September 2021. And I do think this should have been 
made clearer in the first instance. Ive discussed compensation for his case overall, later in 
this decision. 
Customer service
Mr and Mrs D have raised concerns that they werent responded to, when they asked Aviva 
for clarification on cover under this policy, for the trip they were due to take in September 
2021. Mr and Mrs D said they contacted Aviva about this, and chased a response, without 
receiving a reply.
Mr and Mrs D have provided a copy of email Mr D sent to Aviva, noting they had asked 
further questions, and chased a response on 29 April 2021 and 7 June 2021, with no reply. 
And Aviva hasnt provided anything within its file to show it replied either.
Our investigator noted that Aviva had provided its final response to Mr and Mrs D, and so it 
didnt need to respond again. I do agree the answer Aviva would have provided to Mr and 
Mrs D would have been the same as their previous questions. The situation was very similar to the first one theyd asked Aviva about. But I do think it should have replied to Mr and Mrs 
D, given they were asking about a different holiday.
Given this, and that I think it would be reasonable to compensate Mr and Mrs D for the 
trouble and upset mentioned in the above main purpose of travelling section of this 
decision, Ive thought about what would be fair here. And, Im currently planning on requiring 
Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs D £200 compensation. The reason I consider this figure to be fair is 
because I think it fairly recognises the inconvenience and confusion Mr and Mrs D 
experienced in learning they didnt have cover for the specific trips listed above  when this 
should have been made clear to them prior to policy renewal.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. But Mr and Mrs D did. They said:
Id made no specific reference to unfair contract terms. And theyd like my specific 
observations on this.
I hadnt required Aviva to make a change to their documentation. And asked whether 
I had any plans expecting Aviva to improve transparency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as that in my provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons. So, Ill not repeat this here.
Mr and Mrs D have asked for my specific observation on unfair contract terms. I should 
explain, that when considering a complaint, my role is to review all of the information 
provided to me, and come to my decision, based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable  taking into account the relevant law, rules and regulation. And I can confirm 
this is what Ive done here. But when issuing my decision, Ill only comment on what I 
consider relevant to explain the reasoning for the outcome reached. And so, whilst I 
understand Mr and Mrs D may like specific observations in this regard, Im satisfied my 
reasoning details my decision, and explains why Ive reached the conclusion I have. So, Im 
not providing any more specific comments in relation to the law around unfair contract terms.
Mr and Mrs D have also enquired about whether I had any plans to ensure Aviva improved 
the transparency of its policy documents, in relation to the issues raised. Its important to 
note, that this service isnt the regulator of the financial service industry. It isnt our role to tell 
a business how to write its policy, or display information within it. Its the role of the regulator 
to set standards in relation to this. 
Rather, this services role is as an independent arbitrator of individual complaints. So, the 
role of this service is to consider the complaint raised, and decide what is a fair and 
reasonable outcome, to resolve it. And this is what Ive done here. Im satisfied the £200 
compensation is fair and reasonable for the reasons noted above.
Your text here
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs D £200 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman