DRN-3026109
The complaint
Mr J complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent him becoming the victim of a 
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2018 Mr J was sadly the victim of a scam. He made a series of payments to what he 
believed to be genuine investment firms (dealing in Forex and CFDs). But it turned out hed 
been in touch with scammers who were either impersonating genuine firms or operating a 
scam. As a result of the scam, between March and June 2018, Mr J sent seven payments to 
several different beneficiary accounts. The total amount sent was around £70,000. 
In August 2018 Mr J realised hed been the victim of a scam and contacted TSB. TSB in turn 
contacted the beneficiary banks who all reported that no funds remained to be returned. Mr J 
complained as he felt TSB should raise a chargeback and that they should have done more 
to protect him from fraud. TSB wouldnt reimburse the loss and the complaint was referred to 
our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
As he disagrees, Mr J has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has made repeated reference to the payments being made on his debit card. Im 
satisfied by the evidence from TSB that they were all actually push payment transfers from 
his bank account rather than being made on a debit card. As such, there isnt an option for a 
chargeback to have been made. 
It is common ground that Mr J authorised the scam payments totalling around £70,000. At 
the time he believed he was making genuine investments. I accept that these were 
authorised payments even though Mr J was the victim of a scam. He provided valid 
instructions through his online banking. So, although he didnt intend to pay the scammers, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr J is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for TSB to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. TSBs first 
obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr J provides. But if those instructions are 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect TSB to intervene and to 
ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing it. Id also expect 
TSB to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their customers make an 
informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There might also be cases 
where its appropriate for TSB to refuse to follow the instruction if there are good grounds to 
believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam.
Mr J has referenced the British Standard Institute (BSI) PAS 17271 (2017)  Protecting 
Customers from Financial Harm from Fraud Code. He has also mentioned other best 
practice for APP scams and industry guidance to support his position that TSB ought to have 
done more. Ive considered all of these and it isnt in dispute that TSB has (and had) 
obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in its customers best interests. Broadly speaking 
these are the obligations Ive referred to above. So, the starting point here is whether the 
instructions Mr J gave to TSB were unusual in relation to the typical account activity. 
To do this Ive reviewed the account statements prior to the scam payments being made. 
The account typically maintained a healthy balance which ranged between around £1,000 
and on occasions up to around £37,000. Within the previous year there were infrequent 
large outgoing payments of amounts up to £25,000. I dont think payments of the type Mr J 
instructed to go to the scammer can fairly be said to be sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic for this particular account. I dont think it was unusual for large payments to 
be made on this account. The payments made as a result of the scam were spread over 
three months, rather than being made in very quick succession which can be indicative of 
fraud. Banks must be alert to fraud, but they must also balance this without unduly interfering 
in customers accessing their accounts. Overall, Im not persuaded in the circumstances of 
this complaint, that TSB failed by not contacting Mr J at the time, prior to processing any of 
the payments.
Mr J has shared evidence to support that there were online warnings about the firms with 
which he was dealing. I accept this is the case, but I dont think TSB had reason to suspect 
that Mr J was at risk of financial harm from fraud. So I cant say they should have intervened 
in the transactions  it was also for Mr J to do his research prior to instructing the payments.
Without intervention I can't reasonably have expected TSB to have known that the payments 
Mr J was making were to firms that had online warnings. 
Once Mr J informed TSB that his payments had been made as the result of a scam, TSB 
acted promptly. The beneficiary banks reported that no funds remained to be returned. I 
dont think TSB are responsible for errors which prevented the recovery of any of Mr Js 
funds. It is sadly a common feature of these scams that the funds are quickly moved on from 
the beneficiary accounts. 
Im sorry to hear Mr J lost such a significant amount of money to cruel scammers. But as I 
dont think TSB are responsible for the loss, or that they hindered its recovery, Im not going 
to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman