DRN-3031022
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs J says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) trading as Halifax mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Js 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that because BoS told 
us that the commission for Mrs Js PPI was less than 50% of what she paid, BoS didnt need 
to pay back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Mrs Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Js. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Js complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event BoS has offered to pay back some 
of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
There is limited information available from the time BoS sold the PPI to Mrs J. But this 
isnt unusual considering the time that has passed since the sale, and that businesses 
arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely. From what is available I dont 
have enough to say BoS didnt make it clear that Mrs J didnt have to take out the PPI or 
that she didnt choose to take it out.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs J so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. And 
the evidence about Mrs Js circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Mrs J was eligible for the cover 
and although she had existing means she still seems to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mrs Js employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Mrs J says she had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended 
it. I say this because I havent seen enough evidence to say the condition continued to 
cause Mrs J ongoing problems.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs J as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs J would have declined the 
cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Js circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs J would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Js representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Js representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Js individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Js particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mrs Js representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs J should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: BoS failed to tell Mrs J about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs J wouldnt have taken out the policy had 
they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mrs Js PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs Js case was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed to tell Mrs J about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think BoS treated Mrs J unfairly. 
This means BoS doesnt need to pay Mrs J back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has offered to give back to Mrs J some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mrs J as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Js complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt need to disclose 
the commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mrs J paid for 
the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has offered to pay back back some of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs J. BoS should now make arrangements to pay Mrs J if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman