DRN-4140449
The complaint
Mr R complains that he received inadequate and delayed responses from Aegon to 
questions he had about how his personal pension plan worked. This came at a critical time 
when he was considering whether to transfer away. He considers that Aegons actions either 
caused him to lose valuable guarantees when he transferred the policy, or alternatively 
delayed the transfer beyond a date where the terminal bonus was reduced.
What happened
I will provide a summary of the key events here. I intentionally havent mentioned every 
specific communication, but focused on the main issues on which the outcome of this 
complaint turns.
Mr R held a personal pension with Aegon, into which it appears he had transferred benefits 
that came under his former employers occupational pension scheme in 1992. A personal 
pension plan came under different tax rules to an occupational scheme, so Aegon issued a 
new policy which is subject to its own terms and conditions. These include the option of 
investment in a with-profits fund which guarantees that the price of each unit will be £1.03 if 
Mr R retains those units to his pension date. For much of the period since, Mr R had been 
working outside the UK. 
On 7 April 2022 Mr R wrote to Aegon in response to a statement it had sent for his pension. 
Aegon received this letter on 19 April. He asked 15 questions, several of which were 
prompted by terms mentioned in the statement  such as about the guarantees and charges 
referred to. He asked why the values of the funds he held had fallen over the past year; 
whether the value of his with-profits units was the £12,408 he expected it to be (based on 
each unit being worth £1.03 at his pension date); whether the terminal bonus on this 
element had fallen; and how much it would cost to transfer out. Mr R added that another 
stockbroking platform he used had a special offer for transfers which was due to expire at 
the end of that month, and he welcomed Aegons early (ie immediate) response. 
Aegon responded to Mr Rs request on 27 April in a standard format (similar to how it would 
respond, for example, to enquiries from an independent financial adviser). It said Aegon 
didnt respond to individual questionnaires, but provided answers to the most commonly 
answered questions. I note that the response confirmed, amongst other things:
- Mr Rs plans pension date was in 2031
- There was no guaranteed minimum fund or annuity on the pension plan itself, but 
there were guarantees attached to his investment in the with-profits fund.
- The charges taken over the last year, broken down into an annual management 
charge and a paid up fee (there were no other charges).
- An attached illustration showed that the fund value was the same as the transfer 
value (i.e. no penalties for transfer). The total value was about £10,306. A projection 
was given to retirement age.
- The with-profits units were guaranteed to be worth £1.03 each at his pension date 
(i.e. in 2031). Their value before this date reflected an element of guaranteed growth 
built into the fund, which was on average 5.5%pa. Further information on how this 
fund worked was available via Aegons website address or on request.
- No further annual bonuses were currently being paid on the with-profits element, but 
a terminal bonus (which was not guaranteed) was currently payable of about £1,723. 
The letter added: The plan has investments in a With-Profits fund with potentially valuable 
investment guarantees applicable at the planholder's pension date. These guarantees will be 
lost on early encashment, transfer or switching out of the With-Profits funds before the 
pension date. Visit www.aegon.co.uk/wpguarantees to find out about the guarantees on the 
With-Profits funds.
Mr R didnt consider this answered all of his questions. Some had not been answered at all: 
for instance the precise type of policy he had, whether the charges were part of the unit price 
and what the reasons were for recent falls in value. He wrote to Aegon again on 6 May. 
Further questions he added concerned whether the charges were levied in advance, 
whether these would be pro-rated if he transferred out and what waiver of contribution 
(which Aegon had said he didnt have on his policy) meant. Mr R was also upset as he had 
already told Aegon that he wouldnt be satisfied with references to its website. 
Aegon has admitted it neglected to action this further request in error, and as a result Mr R 
chased it again in another letter which it received on 25 May. Because Mr R said in this letter 
that he would hold Aegon responsible if he missed out on a £200 incentive to move his 
pension by the end of June, Aegon acknowledged this as an expression of dissatisfaction 
about its administration of his policy  in regulatory terms, a complaint. But Mr R immediately 
responded asking it not to treat his request as a complaint.
Aegon then further admits that it, again, neglected to action Mr Rs outstanding questions in 
error, despite him chasing again on 15 June. Mr R says that as a result, on 29 June he 
decided to transfer his pension away from Aegon. This resulted in the new provider 
requesting the transfer proceeds from Aegon electronically on 7 July, and the exit value of 
his plan being calculated on 11 July.
On 4 July Mr R had already asked for his dissatisfaction to be treated as a complaint. In a 
follow-up email of 18 July, Mr R was still querying a number of unresolved issues concerning 
the guarantees that applied to his plan and what it would be worth at his pension date. He 
said he needed to know this in order to decide whether to continue with or halt his proposed 
transfer. On 26 July Mr R added that the value of his funds had fallen by about £650 (or 6%) 
by the point of transfer, and as he no longer had access to his on-line servicing (because of 
the transfer) he asked a number of questions about the funds recent performance.
Whilst Aegon was looking into Mr Rs complaint, its administration department belatedly 
acknowledged his outstanding questions. It told Mr R on 1 August that as the transfer had 
now completed, it wouldnt be to be able to complete a further request. Mr R wished to add 
to his complaint that the Aegon transfer had taken 27 days to arrive, more than twice as long 
as a transfer he was making to the same platform from a different pension provider. 
Mr R referred the complaint to our service on 11 August, because he was aware that he had 
30 days to exercise his cancellation rights, three weeks of which were still outstanding. 
However we wouldnt have been able to get involved at that time because a business is 
entitled to have eight weeks (essentially the rest of August) to respond to a complaint.
Aegon provided its response to the complaint on 14 September. It agreed that it hadnt 
provided the level of service it should have done in responding to Mr Rs questions and 
offered him £300 in compensation, in addition to answering some outstanding points. This 
included giving him a complete summary of all transactions on his plan. Aegon explained that there was a regular paid up charge (following cessation of premiums), 
as well as an annual management charge taken into account in the unit price itself. It also 
said that his with-profits units had an in-built guaranteed growth of 5.5%pa over the term of 
the plan; his units in the mixed fund had dropped due to market volatility; and the terminal 
bonus rate for the with profits units was revised downwards at the start of April 2022 due to 
negative investment performance. (Aegon also added that if Mr R had instead had a new 
generation with-profits policy, which had been another of his questions, no terminal bonus 
would have applied. It also explained what waiver of premium meant.)
Mr R responded that he was still expecting Aegon to make good the £650 fall in value of his 
plan between 3 April and 11 July (when the surrender amount was valued). He also wanted 
Aegon to make good a £5,800 shortfall in what he was quoted to receive from his with-profits 
units at his retirement date, due to the guaranteed unit price of £1.03.
Aegon addressed the further issues in a second response to the complaint on 12 October 
2022. This confirmed that it had made the £300 payment to the bank account Mr R had 
nominated  and was now willing to send a further payment of £200 to him (which it has now 
paid), following a review of the amounts our service typically recommends for distress and 
inconvenience. But it didnt agree it was responsible for the market conditions that led to the 
value of his fund falling, and considered that it had sufficiently explained how the with-profits 
guarantees worked.
Mr R referred his complaint to us, saying that his calculation of the present day value of the 
loss of guarantees, the drop in value of his funds, plus compensation for time spent pursuing 
the complaint less the £500 Aegon has already paid him, comes to another £1,900. 
Mr Rs complaint was then considered by our investigator. He asked Aegon to explain its 
process for encashing policies and it responded: We use a process called R+2 for all 
transfer or settlement requests that we receive. This means we set the Claim Date (final 
value amount) as 2 working days from receipt of all the required documentation that allows 
us to complete the settlement. As the request was received on 7 July 2022 the Claim Date 
was set 2 working days later on 11 July 2022. This is our standard company policy for all 
settlements.
The investigator concluded that Aegon didnt need to pay more than the £500 compensation 
it had already given Mr R to put things right. In summary, he said:
Mr R had left more than enough time for Aegon to answer his queries, beginning his 
request more than two months before his new providers offer ran out.
However Aegons response to his queries wasnt just contained in its 27 April 2022 
letter. Several references were made to its website where more information was 
provided, including about the way the with-profits fund operated.
In his letters Mr R had demonstrated a good understanding of the features of his 
policy during the transfer process. The majority of his correspondence between April 
and October 2022 requested confirmation of that understanding, rather than 
provision of any new information.
In particular, by referring to the guarantees under his policy (the key one being that 
each unit in the with-profits fund was worth £1.03 at pension date), he was aware 
that he would lose these by transferring out.
It wasnt reasonable to knowingly proceed with the transfer when the information 
available to Mr R suggested an early exit from the fund would harm him financially.
If Aegon had provided explicit confirmation of Mr Rs understanding of how the policy 
operated, he couldnt see how Mr R would have made a different decision.
Previous transfer values issued to Mr R were never guaranteed. The values of his investment in the mixed fund and the bonuses payable on the with-profits fund were 
subject to market conditions.
The investigator didnt, at the time, discuss some further information that Aegon had 
included in its submissions to this service about the smoothing process in its with-profits 
fund and some changes it had made to that process in 2015. Smoothing is a system of 
annual and final (or terminal) bonuses which with-profits providers use to smooth out the 
peaks and troughs of performance in the funds underlying investments (and in this case the 
built-in increase rate to the unit price is effectively a form of annual bonus). Aegon had said:
for pre v7 WPE [with profit endowment] plans (such as this [Mr Rs]) we reduced the bid price 
series a number of years ago with the result that the TB [terminal bonus] element was increased 
and became a balancing item depending not just date of investment but also the originally selected 
future pension date. Therefore, rather than one unique rate of TB per investment month we now 
have a series of rates per investment month, one for each month into the future to your originally 
selected retirement date. 
On Fund Factsheets we show TB for post v7 WPE plans where we didnt reduce the unit price and 
where a single rate continues to apply. For most investment months this is 0%. 
However, for pre v7 plans  where we reduced the unit prices (by 2% for every outstanding year to 
maturity)  TB may be payable to top up the reduced bid price to the affordable playout [sic] level. 
For example, assume unreduced bid value [value of units at the prevailing price] is £150 and the 
affordable pay-out is £140. TB would be set to 0% (as affordable pay-out below bid value); pay-out 
would therefore be £150. However, for an otherwise identical pre-v7 plan of 10 years outstanding 
duration, the bid value would be c.£120 (20% lower reflecting 2% * 10 years) The bid value is now 
below the £140 affordable pay-out and so wed add £20 as TB. Pay-out would be £140.

The WPE unit price is guaranteed at originally selected retirement date with prices increasing at 
around 5.5% per annum before that date (post v7 plans). For pre v7 plans, to get back to the 
guaranteed unit price at originally selected retirement date, the unit bid price now increases by 
around 7.5% per annum to unwind the reduction over time. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. Briefly, Mr R remains dissatisfied that details which 
the investigator believed were ascertainable by him before he transferred, were not so 
readily available to Aegon that it still took Aegon many months after he transferred to 
provide. He says he would not have knowingly have given away over £2,000, or persist in 
answering questions unless the details he had about his policy were genuinely in conflict. 
And he would always have needed written confirmation of the correct information from 
Aegon, not information he had to glean from its website (which he found difficult to find).
Mr R returned to one aspect which he found particularly confusing, which is that Aegons 
built-in increase to the with-profits funds unit price of about 5.5%pa would clearly not take it 
to £1.03 per unit by his pension date in under a decade. He said that would require 88% 
growth. He also emphasized that hed have no way of knowing that Aegon would revise its 
terminal bonus amount a few days after the transfer request.
The complaint was then passed to me for a decision. I wrote to Mr R on 14 June and 
7 September 2023 to address some of the outstanding questions following the investigators 
view. In summary, my comments were:
The process Aegon had used to value Mr Rs policy for encashment based on the 
date of receipt of the instruction was consistent with how all providers deal with these 
requests to ensure no consumer is treated more or less favourably than another 
when there is a backlog of instructions. (It may vary from provider to provider whether 
they use the unit price one or two days after the request is received, as this will 
reflect how quickly units could be sold.) Aegon sent the funds to the new scheme within nine working days of when it 
received the online Origo request. If the standard BACS bank clearing process 
was used, it may have taken a couple of days longer to reach his new provider. 
The Transfers and Re-registration Industry Group (TRIG) has promulgated good 
industry practice, aiming to achieve transfers within ten working days on as many 
cash transfers as possible. But this is an aspirational standard rather than a 
regulatory rule. The view this service would take is that exceeding the desired 
timescale by a short time isnt significant enough to warrant compensation. And the 
fact that another provider may have effected a transfer more quickly isnt something 
Im bound to take into account.
I provided Aegons explanation about the change to the way it managed its with-
profits fund in 2015. Due to poorer investment returns, the amount it could afford to 
pay as the consumers fair share of the fund on claims earlier than pension date had 
routinely become lower than the units held, multiplied by the unit price. The unit price 
had originally been set to go up at 5.5% each year from the point each contribution 
was paid up to the pension date, meaning it would reach a price of £1.03 at pension 
date (which was then guaranteed). That was the main part of the smoothing policy.
Aegon changed its approach in 2015, using the discretion its actuaries have, to re-
price the value of the units. The unit price was reset to be about 7.5% (rather than 
5.5%) lower than £1.03, on a compound basis, for each year prior to pension date. 
This made it more likely that payouts on early exit from the fund didnt exceed Mr Rs 
fair share of the assets. It caused a discontinuity (a drop) in the unit price at the point 
in 2015 it was applied. But Aegon immediately added as much extra, in the way of 
further terminal bonus, as it took off as a result of re-pricing the units. 
The change gave Aegon more freedom to reduce that terminal bonus in future if it 
needed to, to cater for adverse market conditions. This was because the with-profit 
endowment fund didnt have a built-in mechanism called a market value reduction 
that could otherwise simply have been triggered. However, none of this affected the 
price of £1.03 for each unit at pension date which was the guarantee in the fund. 
I sent Mr R a copy of the template letter Aegon used to communicate these changes 
to policyholders in November 2014 (only one letter was sent  it was included twice 
in the letter we sent Mr R in error).
Aegons view is that the information given in annual statements, which still refer to a 
5.5%pa increase, is consistent with how the fund is operating. Thats because it 
refers to the average annual increase in unit price from the commencement of the 
plan (or when a contribution is paid) until pension date. And that hasnt changed, 
even though the unit price has dropped in 2015 and now goes up at a faster rate.
In my letter of 14 June 2023 I also gave an indication of the outcome I would likely reach on 
the merits of the complaint. I explained that I would have to consider why Mr R was more, 
rather than less, inclined to transfer his policy before Aegon had clarified the discrepancy 
hed noticed with the 5.5%pa unit price increase. Mr Rs own enquiries showed hed already 
recognised that if his unit price was still £1.03 at age 65, he would get an attractive, inbuilt 
investment return of over 7%pa at no risk. But he chose to transfer regardless. I said Id 
have to consider whether the other aspects Mr R was dissatisfied about played a greater 
part  including the fall in terminal bonus. As the with-profits fund is invested in bonds which 
dropped in value during 2022, I noted this fall in terminal bonus would always have 
happened, irrespective of Mr Rs level of understanding of how the with-profits fund worked. 
On 26 June and 20 September 2023 respectively, I received from Mr R paragraph by 
paragraph examinations of my letters and their enclosures. I wont be summarising these 
here, as there is considerable overlap with his original complaint which Ive summarised above. Ive already clarified some of the background summarised above in light of Mr Rs 
comments and will refer to the points he has made, where relevant, when I address them in 
my reasoning.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive previously referred Mr R to Dispute Resolution (DISP) rule 3.5.8R and directed that he 
restrict his response to only the key issues. Mr R has asked this service numerous 
questions. If I havent commented on those in this decision it is because I dont consider 
them to be relevant to the outcome of the complaint, or they are requests that are better 
directed by Mr R to Aegon itself. My role isnt to collate Mr Rs questions about his policy and 
answer each one (or co-ordinate responses from Aegon to them), if I dont consider them to 
be central to the complaint.
Mr R has also been clear that he isnt complaining about the pricing changes to the with-
profits fund in 2015, but about Aegons tardiness in responding to his questions in 2022. As I 
indicated in my recent letter, the management decisions Aegon takes in running the fund, 
including those in 2015, were carried out under the supervision of the industry regulator, the 
FCA  and in the context that (as Aegon explains on its fund factsheets), the unit price is not 
guaranteed on encashment before the pension date. In the rest of this decision, Ive taken 
into account the way the fund was now operating, following the changes in 2015.
In short, Mr R is arguing that he should be compensated for the loss of guarantees on the 
basis that the transfer would never have happened. But in the event that Im not persuaded 
by this, that he should be compensated because the transfer should have happened before 
Aegon reduced its terminal bonus in July 2022. Ill consider each of these claims separately, 
as well as whether Mr R received a fair and reasonable claim value, and what is appropriate 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Loss of guarantees
Firstly, Ive looked first at whether Aegon is responsible for Mr Rs decision to transfer and 
miss out on the guarantees payable at retirement date. I think a key part of the confusion 
here was in the interpretation of Aegons comment on Mr Rs annual statement (and 
repeated elsewhere) that there was a 5.5%pa growth rate on average built into the unit price.
The unit price that applied when each contribution was paid in had been determined from a 
scale that was 5.5% less than £1.03 (compounded) for each year before pension date that 
the contribution was paid. The changes in 2015 didnt alter either this start or end price  the 
start price had already been used to determine how many units Mr R held (albeit that they 
reduced gradually due to the paid up charge), and the latter was guaranteed. But the unit 
prices at years in between were only one component of calculating any value for exiting the 
fund early. Aegon had expected it had set the unit price at a low enough level, with the built-
in increases, to only ever need adjusting upwards (by the addition of terminal bonus).
However, prevailing investment returns at the time this 5.5% scale was originally set were a 
lot higher than they were by 2015. Aegon anticipated that simply relying on the final element 
of an added terminal bonus, even if that became zero, wasnt sufficient for it to continue with 
the smoothing process. The change Aegon applied was to reset the unit value at a lower 
level, but now have a 7.5% rather than 5.5%pa increase rate to get back to £1.03 at the 
pension date; the only point the price was actually guaranteed. And at the same time, to 
distribute the estate in the with-profits fund (that is, the amount by which the total value of the investments exceeds the smoothed return) as additional terminal bonus.
I understand Mr Rs concern about the wording on the annual statement. But if Aegon had 
announced here that his policy benefited from a compound investment return of 7.5%pa 
(plus any further annual bonuses added in the past, and any terminal bonus), that wouldnt 
be correct either  as the 7.5%pa increase to the unit price hadnt applied from the outset. It 
was more accurate (albeit in summary form) to say that over the whole term of the policy the 
unit price increase rate amounted to 5.5%pa on average. 
Mr R has made comparisons with the clearer policy summaries for other financial products, 
such as home emergency cover. I understand the point being made, but I cant agree the 
comparison is warranted. The with-profits fund was incepted decades ago, when insurance 
policies werent as clear as they are today either. A home emergency policy is renewed each 
year and the terms can be revised. Aegon has a limited ability to vary how the with-profits 
fund works, or discuss in specific detail each decision it makes, because of the considerable 
discretion the regulator allows it to have in order to ensure that the built-in guarantee of a 
£1.03 unit price at pension date, which has been in place since the outset, can be met.
Mr R doesnt agree that he was ever told he had a pre-v7 policy or that Aegon was 
changing the way it managed the with-profits funds on such policies. He doesnt think that he 
received (or at least cannot now locate) Aegons November 2014 letter. Whilst Aegon 
wouldnt necessarily have known that Mr R didnt have these details, I think it ought to have 
appreciated in any event that no policyholder was going to have a particularly good 
recollection, by 2022, of the changes it had made to how the fund operated some seven 
years ago. So I think a fuller recap of the position would have been beneficial here.
Crucially though, in my view, Mr R recognised that something was lacking in the explanation. 
He arrived at something very similar to the 7.5%pa unit price increase rate by looking at how 
quickly his unit price would need to increase over the remaining term to reach £1.03. That 
was the reason behind many of the questions he asked Aegon. Although he didnt receive a 
response he was entirely satisfied with, which Aegon accepts responsibility for, Aegon did 
confirm that the £1.03 unit price guarantee applied at his pension date in 2031. But Mr R 
transferred his policy out regardless.
Mr R considers I am speculating as to his reasons for acting in the way he did at the time. 
He also doesnt agree that by giving his understanding to Aegon of how his policy operated, 
that meant he truly understood it. He says he was left with no choice but to transfer because 
Aegon wouldnt respond to him. At the time of the transfer he did not know what benefit(s), if 
any, were attached to the Aegon Pension Policy, and he proceeded on the basis that Aegon 
might well have responded saying there were no benefits at all. He wouldnt knowingly have 
given away over £2,000, and he would always have needed written confirmation of the 
correct information from Aegon. The £200 incentive payment (which in respect of the Aegon 
part of the transfer was only £75, but fell to zero as the amount transferred was less than 
£10,000) was just the icing on the cake. 
Ive considered carefully everything Mr R has said, but I dont think this changes the central 
issue Ive highlighted. I dont consider its reasonable or logical to assume that there are no 
guarantees on the policy at all, just because there is a query over whether the unit price is 
increasing at 5.5% or 7.5%. By far the more likely outcome was that Aegon would confirm  
as it had already stated on the statement Mr R was questioning  that he was indeed 
guaranteed a unit price of £1.03 at pension date. 
By failing to respond promptly to Mr Rs query, Aegon wasnt underwriting his decision to 
surrender his investment  in such a way that he would still benefit from a unit price 
guarantee of £1.03 at retirement despite no longer being an Aegon customer. That was a feature of the policy which was stated to apply in Aegons literature, then confirmed by 
Aegon, and which Mr R knowingly gave up in his decision to transfer, costing him (by his 
calculations) over £2,000. 
In my view the reasonable course of action if Mr R thought this guarantee was valuable 
enough to potentially lead him to make a different decision about transferring, was to defer 
any decision to transfer until he was satisfied with its response to the information he needed. 
I realise Mr R will say that he had no idea how long it might take Aegon to respond, but he 
was not totally without recourse. He had the same remedy as he has in fact used: to raise a 
complaint which, if necessary, he could bring to this service.
Should the transfer have happened sooner?
I appreciate how frustrating it would have been for Mr R to read the somewhat simplified 
description on his annual statement, as I fully understand why he became puzzled at how 
the 5.5% unit price increase could give him units worth £1.03 at retirement. As Ive noted 
above, Aegon could have anticipated this by providing a better explanation as part of its 
annual statement.
However, Im not persuaded there is evidence of a delay in Aegon responding to Mr Rs first 
letter dated 7 April 2022. As Ive noted above, Aegon has a record of receiving this on 19 
April. I cant know precisely why the letter may have been delayed in transit, and I cant rule 
out that at least some of that delay was whilst the letter was finding its way to the correct 
department within Aegon. The FCAs rules do not prescribe specific timescales for insurers 
to respond to questions, but they are required to treat policyholders fairly. I think it would be 
reasonable to allow Aegon 10 working days to respond to these types of questions about a 
legacy pension policy. And as Mr R had sent his request by letter, I think he would 
reasonably have expected the possibility of some postal delay.
In my view, Aegons reply to this letter on 27 April addressed the bulk of his questions. The 
letter was sufficient, for instance, to confirm to Mr R that the unit price guarantee of £1.03 did 
apply to his plan. To put it another way, if Aegon had turned around many years later and 
said such a guarantee did not apply, Mr R now had it in writing that it did. 
Aegon also provided a link to information about its with-profits funds that it published on its 
website. I dont consider this was unreasonable  as in recognition of the complexity of these 
funds to consumers, the regulator requires it to provide standardised information known as a 
Principles and Practices of Financial Management (PPFM) document, and to update this 
regularly. I can see how that is best done through a website link that can be refreshed1. 
The PPFM contains the information the FCA considers investors should know about the 
fund. It expands on the basic description of the bonus mechanisms in the policy terms and 
conditions, and includes ongoing comments about the impact of the markets on how the 
fund is being managed. I consider it was reasonable for Aegon to direct Mr R to that 
information in the first instance rather than divert resource into answering questions on a 
bespoke basis, or providing copies of the same information (which is extensive) in print. Im 
not persuaded Mr R was disadvantaged by this, as hes shown in his complaint that hes 
able to access the internet even if his preference is not to do so  in fact some of his contact 
with Aegon was via e-mail.
Mr R recognised that Aegon hadnt answered some of his other questions and was of course 
entitled to follow those up in his letter of 6 May. However he added some more points in the 
1 https://www.aegon.co.uk/customer/support/questions/investments/with-profits/governance 
(the web address Mr R was previously given by Aegon now redirects to this area of the website)process, and due to the lengthier nature of the questions this was far from being a routine 
enquiry. I expect that someone at a more senior level in Aegon would be needed to pick up 
the questions. Aegon has admitted that it then misplaced Mr Rs letter  but if it hadnt, I 
dont think it would have been in a position to reply much sooner than Mr R chased again.
The level of Mr Rs distrust in Aegon, which is evident through the correspondence, was 
such that Im not in a position to safely conclude that if Aegon had responded in a 
reasonable manner to the 6 May letter, he would have considered matters resolved there 
and then. In saying this Im mindful that what I would consider a fair and proportionate 
response to the level of detail Mr R had requested is, on balance, unlikely to have satisfied 
him. In particular, he wasnt content with the answers Aegon referred him to its website for. 
With profits funds have fallen out of favour because of their complexity and particularly in a 
case like this where a financial adviser is not involved, suspicion and distrust can develop  
and thats not something Aegon could necessarily resolve in a single reply. Im also drawn to 
the fact that some of Mr Rs concerns were about the charges Aegon was levying  charges 
that are best kept down by directing policyholders to information that is already provided 
centrally (such as on a website). 
What seems to have been driving Mr Rs thought process was that, from what he could see, 
the value of the plan was decreasing, and the charges were increasing. The value had been 
increasing through £8,000, then £9,000 and into the upper £10,000s between 2014 and April 
2021. Then it did drop overall by about 5.5% to April 2022 and a similar amount again when 
it was transferred out. So the increasing charges were proportional to the fund value, which 
was rising. The statements of charges Mr R referred to (which were backward-looking, over 
the past year) hadnt yet reflected the recent fall in the policy value up to April 2022. 
Timing an exit from a with-profits fund is not a straightforward exercise. Im not surprised that 
Aegon suggested in some of its literature that Mr R should consider getting independent 
advice, because to treat all of its policyholders fairly Aegon was not in a position to warn 
Mr R that terminal bonuses were going to be revised downwards again, and precisely when. 
(Actuaries would reasonably keep that information confidential from customer service staff.) 
The PPFM document I mentioned above ensures that all investors can have access to the 
same information on which they may then make a decision. The full PPFM can make for 
hard reading, but Aegon also produces a customer-friendly version. In the lead up to 
deciding whether to leave the fund  and particularly if he didnt want to seek financial advice 
 I think it would have been useful for Mr R to consult this document. It explains that terminal 
bonus revisions are made on a quarterly basis, and Mr R had already shown through his 
questions to Aegon that he knew the last change (a reduction) had happened around April. 
Mr R was also looking to take advantage of an incentive for transferring his pension to the 
stockbroking platform by the end of June  but as hes said himself, that was relatively small 
in relation to fluctuations hed already seen in the terminal bonus. When he gave his 
instruction to the stockbroking platform to request the transfer on 29 June, I think Mr R would 
reasonably have known that the value of his with-profits investment was likely to change 
from the last quote  potentially upwards or downwards. And the smaller amount he held in 
the Mixed fund wasnt smoothed at all, so was fully exposed to the stock markets. 
Aegon hadnt replied to as many of the queries Mr R had raised (and might then have gone 
on to raise) as it should, or as quickly as it should. But despite this, Ive concluded that the 
value he ultimately realised from the policy was primarily the product of the timing of his own 
decision in the full knowledge that it could go up or down. And as Ive noted above, it was a 
decision that actually relinquished the guaranteed unit price of £1.03 at pension date (which 
Aegon had already confirmed did apply).Therefore, I consider Aegons responsibility to compensate Mr R is limited to the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its delay in responding to his queries. Im not sufficiently 
persuaded there is a direct causal link between Aegons actions and the ultimate timing or 
rationale of Mr Rs decision to leave the fund.
Did Aegon treat Mr R fairly and reasonably in calculating the surrender value?
Aegons actuaries decisions regarding how much to vary the terminal bonus by on a 
quarterly basis obviously had an impact on the value realised. Increasing interest rates in 
2022 had an inverse effect on the value of fixed interest investments, which the with-profits 
endowment fund was 100% invested in. It is also not uncommon to find the value of shares 
in the Mixed fund rising when fixed interest assets fall, and vice versa  as they react to 
markets differently. So Im not surprised that the actuaries reduced the terminal bonus again 
on 2 July 2022. (However to answer one of Mr Rs questions, the terminal bonus on this fund 
cannot be negative: that would amount to a market value reduction, which Aegon says it 
doesnt apply on this type of fund.)
In its later annual report to with-profit investors, Aegon explains that in the year to 
31 December 2022 the with-profit endowment fund returned -14.6%. And that has had an 
impact on the rate at which it is distributing the remaining with-profits estate over the rest of 
policy terms. Being mindful of more challenging market conditions, it reduced this distribution 
rate from 6% to 3% effective from July 2022 onwards. 
Ultimately, setting the level of terminal bonus was a decision for Aegon to make having 
regard for the competing interests of all policyholders: if it paid out more than the underlying 
asset share to a departing policyholder that wouldnt be fair to those remaining, and vice 
versa. Aegon is ultimately accountable to the FCA for its management actions in a with-
profits fund and it explains those actions to policyholders through the documents (such as 
the PPFM) which its required to publish on a regular basis. 
The ombudsman service aims to resolve cases informally, and doesnt ask the regulator to 
comment on every complaint it receives about management actions in with-profits funds. 
One of the reasons is that due to the confidential way in which the FCA operates, neither we 
nor Mr R would receive feedback on what the FCA may (or may not) be doing in response to 
his concerns. But also its because the FCA has in any event already been supervising 
Aegons actions on an ongoing basis, because of the type of fund this is. 
Mr R has referred to a particularly well-publicised case (Equitable Life) where there were 
widespread concerns about the manipulation of terminal bonus, but I havent found any 
similarity here. Variations to the terminal bonus were within the discretion Aegon had in 
operating the fund, and the movement wasnt unexpected or excessive given the 
circumstances at the time. Mr R has said he considers the poor performance to be a myth, 
but its consistent with the assets held (principally government bonds), which are generally 
more stable than shares but can move downwards in particularly adverse market conditions. 
A lot of Mr Rs points go into alleged mismanagement of the fund by Aegon, and the alleged 
inability of the FCA to supervise that management. Mr R is free to raise his own concerns 
with the regulator if he wishes to do so, but I cant reasonably see a basis here on which the 
regulator would be seeking to unpick the amount Mr R (and therefore anybody else leaving 
the fund) realised in that quarter during 2022.
Turning now to the overall value realised from the policy, that is a combination of the with-
profits element (11999.66 units at a price of £0.55828 = £6,699.17, plus terminal bonus of 
£1,112.72) and Mixed element (53.92 units at a price of £35.2276 = £1,899.47), totalling 
£9,711.36. The paid up charges incurred up to the date of surrender had reduced the final number of units, with the Mixed fund having a daily published unit price. I havent found 
anything to suggest they were incorrectly calculated. 
Providers will typically check with policyholders before making a transfer, if the value has 
dropped by more than around 10% from the last quote. I think this strikes a reasonable 
balance between delaying potentially all transfers (in downward market movements), and 
allowing those who were most adversely affected to reconsider. The change in Mr Rs 
transfer value was within that limit but as he noted, he could have tried to exercise his 
cancellation rights. Even if he had previously decided to transfer, Mr R was entitled to 
reconsider whether the now lower amount transferred wasnt enough to compensate for the 
guaranteed unit price hed get in 2031. That was a decision only he could make and I dont 
think, with the information he had at the time, Aegon prevented him making that decision.
Mr R refers to his other pension provider transferring using faster payments. Although the 
standard of good industry practice for an end-to-end transfer in 10 working days does 
include bank clearing, there is no specific requirement of the banking service to be used. 
There is already an acceptance that any transfer will involve some time out of the market, 
and it is for providers to take the clearing time into account when acting to make transfers 
promptly. Ive also said this is an aspirational standard to be achieved on average, which 
wont always happen in each case. I note that Mr Rs stockbroking platform warned him that 
cash transfers typically take within 2-3 weeks. Im not persuaded that his transfer arrived 
sufficiently outside reasonable expectations to warrant compensation in this case.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
Aegon has told this service that it took too long to answer Mr Rs points, and the customer 
service was nowhere near the level it should have been. I agree its delay in responding to 
Mr Rs questions aggravated matters for him and caused significant distress, but it has 
already paid him £500. Thats consistent with the awards the ombudsman service typically 
makes where a firms actions have caused considerable upset. I would likely not have 
arrived at a markedly different award had Aegon not already done this. Whilst I appreciate 
that this will be disappointing, Im not going to make any further award here.
My final decision
 I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint or make any award. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
1 November 2023. (Ive made allowance for Mr R being away in this deadline.) 
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman