DRN-1595255
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the sale of her travel insurance policy by TICORP Limited (t/a 
Staysure) after her claim for cancellation was declined. 
What happened
On 7 August 2019 Mrs C obtained a quote from Staysures website for her holiday. She then 
spoke to Staysure on the phone and discussed taking an annual multi trip policy. Mrs C said 
she needed to think about the quote and confirm some medical details with her husband. 
Later that day Staysure spoke to Mrs C again and she agreed to take the policy with a start 
date of 7 October 2019.  On 8 August 2019 Mrs C and her husband booked a holiday for
7 October 2019.
On 30 September 2019 Mrs Cs husband sadly died. On 3 October 2019 Mrs C rang to 
make a claim under her policy but was told her cover hadnt started so she couldnt claim. 
Mrs C was unhappy with this so she made a complaint. 
Staysure reviewed the complaint and the sales calls. It also arranged for a refund of £188.66 
to be given to Mrs C for her late husbands insurance premium. On 25 November 2019 
Staysure sent a final response letter to Mrs C declining her complaint. It said Mrs C had 
selected the start date of the policy and the agent explained that cancellation cover wouldnt 
start until this date. 
Mrs C remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to our service. She understood that 
she wouldnt be covered for any holiday she went on before 7 October 2019. But as shed 
booked the 7 October 2019 holiday the day after taking out the insurance, it was clear she 
did want cancellation cover for this trip.  
Staysure said to this service it isnt authorised to give financial advice so it couldnt suggest 
to Mrs C when she should start the policy. It feels it explained the cancellation cover 
sufficiently to Mrs C, and she was happy to proceed with the policy. It added that Mrs C was 
sent the policy document and had the opportunity to consider these. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and felt it should be upheld. He didnt think Staysure 
had done enough to explain the cancellation cover to Mrs C over the phone. He also didnt 
think the policy documents which were sent were clear enough to make Mrs C aware she 
wouldnt be covered for cancellation before the start of her holiday. 
Staysure didnt agree. It felt it sufficiently brought Mrs Cs attention to the policy cover 
starting on 7 October 2019. And Mrs C confirmed she was happy with this. It added that it 
only expands on topics such as this if customers indicate they need some clarity. 
So, this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. So, Im going to uphold this complaint. 
In order to decide whether this policy was mis-sold I would need to be satisfied Staysure did 
something wrong and Mrs C lost out as a result.
Staysure says it did enough by mentioning cancellation cover wouldnt start until the date 
Mrs C had selected. But I dont agree. Mrs C says she took the start date of her cover to 
mean she wouldnt be covered for cancellation for any other holiday taken before
7 October 2019 because she was taking an annual multi trip policy. She also agreed to the 
policy the day before she booked the holiday. And she confirmed she was happy for the 
policy to commence on 7 October 2019 because she wasnt going away until then. So, Im 
satisfied this was her intention which wasnt understood during the sales call. 
Ive considered what Staysure said about only expanding on topics where it is asked to. But I 
think it shouldve made it clearer to Mrs C what she wouldnt be covered for by selecting the 
start date of her policy as the start date of her trip. The selection of the policy start date can 
have significant consequences  like it has in this complaint  so this service would expect 
Staysure to bring the importance of the policy start date to Mrs Cs attention more clearly 
here. And I agree with the investigator that the average person taking out insurance wouldnt 
understand - in these circumstances - any events that stopped Mrs C going on the holiday 
before it started wouldnt be covered. 
I note Staysure has said Mrs C had the opportunity to review the policy after it was sent to 
her. But I dont think the terms and conditions say anything different to what was discussed 
in the sales calls. The policy says cover will start on whichever is the later of the first day of 
the trip or the first day of cover shown on the validation certificate. The cancellation section 
then goes on to say cancellation will apply for booked trips taking place within the period of 
cover that you are forced to cancel. Having considered these, I can understand why Mrs C 
thought her booked trip (which was going to take place within the period of cover) would be 
covered if she had to cancel. 
Im satisfied Staysure shouldve done more to explain the cancellation cover to Mrs C during 
the sales calls. If it had, I believe she wouldve asked to be covered from the date she took 
out the policy. And its policy wording wasnt clear enough for Mrs C to spot she wouldnt be 
covered if she had to cancel her holiday before 7 October 2019. 
So, I believe Staysure should pay Mrs C compensation.
Putting things right
Our investigator said Mrs C had lost out on £453.54 for her cancelled holiday  after 
considering the refund she received for her husbands premiums and any deductions which 
wouldve been applied if her claim had been accepted. And I agree. So, I believe Staysure 
should pay this to Mrs C. 
Ive also considered whether any compensation is payable to her. Having done so, Im 
satisfied she wouldve suffered significant disappointment at not being able to claim for the 
cancelled holiday following the loss of her husband. I believe a total offer of £750 for what 
Mrs C wasnt able to claim for her lost holiday and compensation would be fair and 
reasonable here.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require TICORP Limited to pay Mrs C 
£750. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman