DRN-3396472
The complaint
Mr K and Ms P are unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt reimbursed the money they lost 
after they fell victim to a safe account scam. 
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in December 2020 Ms P received a call from an 
individual purporting to be from Monzo. Unknown to Ms P at the time, the individual was 
actually a fraudster. Ms P has explained the fraudster had personal information about her, 
such as her name, and which accounts she held with Monzo, which reassured her they were 
genuinely calling from her bank. The fraudster called Ms P from a withheld number, but Ms P 
had also missed a call earlier that day from an 0800 number, which Ms P later discovered 
was Monzos number that the fraudsters had successfully spoofed.
Ms P was asked about suspicious activity on her account which she confirmed wasnt her. 
Ms P advised the fraudster she was busy at work and asked if she could be called at another 
time. The fraudster insisted she needed to act fast as her money was otherwise at risk. The 
fraudster asked if Ms P had responded to any fake emails recently and Ms P confirmed she 
had - regarding a missed parcel. The fraudster advised this was probably how someone had 
obtained her banking details. On the instruction of the fraudster, Ms P therefore moved funds 
from all of her Monzo accounts together, then transferred these funds (totalling £1,405) to 
what she thought was her new account via online banking.
When Ms P made the transfer, she was asked to select the reason for payment. Ms P 
initially chose the option something else. Monzo has confirmed that as a result, Ms P 
wouldve seen the following warning:
Stop, dont pay
Its very likely this is a scam
Remember:
If a deal seems too good to be true, it probably is
The name and phone number of legitimate companies can be spoofed or faked
Check who youre paying
Look for official contact details, and if youre not totally confident, please dont pay.
You might not be able to get your money back.
Ms P then went back to the reason for payment screen and selected goods or services. 
Monzo has said that as a result of selecting, Ms P wouldve seen the following warning:
Stop, dont pay
Its very likely this is a scam
Remember:
Bank transfers arranged online or over social media are at a higher risk of fraud
Bank transfers arent protected in the same way as card payments
Pay by card if you can
You might not be able to get your money back if this does turn out to be a scam. Find a 
legitimate seller who lets you pay by card.
Ms T had to click again to confirm she wished to make the payment.
Ms T has explained she chose the goods or services option as the fraudster told her these 
fraud warnings always came up and to choose this option to proceed with the transfer. 
That evening, Ms P told her partner about the call and at that point, realised shed been the 
victim of a scam.
Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo considers Ms P didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was speaking with 
Monzo and therefore making a legitimate transfer. Ms P feels she should be refunded and so 
has referred her complaint to us. An investigator looked into the complaint and thought it 
ought to be upheld, with Monzo providing a full refund. As Monzo disagreed with the 
investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have fully refunded the money Mr 
K and Ms P lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr K and 
Ms P lost.
The money was taken from Mr K and Ms Ps current account. It is not clear how they 
would have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Monzo should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple 
per year from the date it declined the claim under the Code to the date of payment.
I have considered Monzos representations about whether Ms P had a reasonable basis for 
believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a different 
view.  In particular, I am not persuaded that Ms P failed to take the requisite level of care 
required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Ms P lacked a reasonable basis of belief. Monzo 
has raised that Ms P ought to have been concerned when the fraudster asked if shed 
received any fake emails recently, as a bank wouldnt be privy to the emails its customers 
are receiving. However I disagree on this point. Phishing emails are well known to banks as 
a method for fraudsters obtaining individuals personal information. I therefore think its 
entirely plausible that a bank might ask this question if its customers information had been 
compromised, to understand how this may have happened and better ascertain which 
information had been compromised. In this case I think the fraudster used the knowledge of 
the phishing email to build trust with Ms P that her details had been compromised, which 
added to the credibility of the scam.While the call Ms P had with the fraudster was from a withheld number and not a spoofed 
number, the fraudster had used spoofing methods to try to contact Ms P earlier that day and 
Ms P was aware shed received a missed call from an 0800 number (even though she 
wasnt aware at that point it was Monzos). I dont think its unrealistic for a bank to call a 
customer on a withheld number  but in any event, failure to undertake validating actions 
should not in itself lead to a decision not to reimburse  its important a firm views a 
customers actions in context of the overall circumstances. In this case, Ms P had been 
called on a legitimate number earlier that day and the caller had highlighted that the phishing 
email shed completed may have compromised her personal information. I therefore think in 
the context of this case, Ms P had reasons to believe this call was legitimate, prior to any 
further validation attempts. I also think its fair to conclude that had Ms P questioned how she 
could be confident the caller was from her bank, given the scammer had the ability to call Ms 
P back on a Monzo spoofed number, having done so once already, its more likely than not 
this is what wouldve happened. And so Im not persuaded any additional questioning from 
Ms P wouldve led to the uncovering of the scam.
Monzo has said Ms P initially saw its something else warning, which provides guidance on 
fraudsters using number spoofing  it thinks she shouldve responded to this. However, from 
the evidence Monzo has provided, it appears Ms P was only on this particular warning 
screen for around two seconds before reverting back to choose a different payment reason, 
so I dont think she read it. Based on Ms Ps testimony, I think its likely Ms P chose this first 
option before being guided to choose a different payment option by the fraudster. I also dont 
think its unreasonable for Ms P to have followed the fraudsters guidance when selecting the 
payment option, considering she believed her money was at risk and she needed to act 
promptly, particularly when under the impression a Monzo representative was helping her to 
do this.
Monzo has raised that Ms P never told it during questioning that the fraudster knew details 
about her account. Having reviewed the conversation with Ms P, I can see Monzo asked a 
specific question about what personal and account information the fraudster knew. However, 
Monzo did ask several questions at the same time and at this point, Ms P answered other 
questions posed to her but not this one. When Monzo repeated the question, it only asked 
what personal details the fraudster knew and gave examples of name, address and date of 
birth. This time Ms P did answer this specific question and confirmed which of the examples 
the fraudster did know. On balance Im persuaded that what Ms P has told us is a true 
recollection of the events that took place  in all other aspects of her testimony she has been 
consistent with what she told Monzo.
In summary, I accept that the case is a finely balanced one but having considered the 
circumstances holistically, Im not persuaded that Monzo has shown Ms P didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing she was making a genuine transaction. Monzo should 
therefore refund the funds Mr K and Ms P lost to the fraudster in full.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr K and Ms Ps complaint 
against Monzo Bank Ltd. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund the £1,405 Mr K and Ms P lost to the scammer
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date Monzo declined their claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman