DRN-2545249
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with delays experienced during a claim under their buildings 
warranty with National House-Building Council and that it was eventually declined.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms basement flooded in November 2018. They contacted National House-
Building Council (NHBC) to make a claim under their Solo for Self-Build warranty.
On 12 December 2018 NHBC sent their assessor to the property to understand what had 
happened and to identify the cause of the water ingress.
On 21 December 2018 NHBC told Mr and Mrs M to refer back to their home insurer because 
they previously paid a claim for an escape of water in the basement. Mr and Mrs M werent 
happy with this and complained to NHBC. On 4 January 2019 NHBC said theyd send a leak 
detection specialist.
NHBC addressed this initial complaint in a final response letter dated 25 January 2019 
where they acknowledged delays and their initial decision to incorrectly decline the claim. 
They offered £200 by way of compensation.
On 29 April 2019 NHBC addressed another complaint about delays. This acknowledged the 
stress the situation was causing for Mr and Mrs M but concluded that theyd carried out 
necessary investigations since January 2019 so didnt award any compensation.
NHBC received a report on 10 May 2019 that said the claim was valid and suggested a 
cavity drained membrane. So, they let Mr and Mrs M know theyd accept the claim and then 
put the works out to tender.
Only one company responded to this which meant it took longer than the initial deadline of 
2 August 2019. And it raised further issues. Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this because a 
lot of time had been spent waiting for contractors to return and this left them no further 
forward.
A further complaint was addressed on 18 September 2019. This acknowledged there had 
been some delays but explained NHBC needed to find the source of the water ingress and 
compile a robust scope of work. They offered another £750 compensation for the trouble this 
caused Mr and Mrs M and arranged another visit to their property.
On 11 October 2019 NHBC wrote to Mr and Mrs M to explain their latest visit had revealed 
that the water ingress was due to a lack of maintenance to the sump pump. This led to a 
build-up of water in the pump chamber and in turn caused water ingress into the basement. 
NHBC said this meant the claim wasnt covered under the terms of the warranty. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this because theyd been under the impression the claim 
would be covered and had been living without access to their basement for almost a year. 
They also hadnt come any closer to getting the issue fixed and putting their house back in 
order. 
NHBC addressed this complaint in a letter dated 5 November 2019. This acknowledged the 
service hadnt been to the standard NHBC would expect and that this had had a significant 
impact on Mr and Mrs M over the last year. So, they offered £3,000 as a gesture of goodwill 
to put things right.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
reviewed their case and thought part of the complaint wasnt something we could look at. He 
said that several complaints had been raised throughout the claim and each of them gave a 
six-month deadline to contact this service. This deadline is set by the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority, and is outlined in their dispute resolution (DISP) rules.
There were only two complaints brought within the six-month deadline. The final complaint 
addressed in November 2019 once the claim had been declined. And the one addressed in 
September 2019. 
When looking at the merits of these complaints, our investigator said he agreed the claim 
hadnt been handled well by NHBC. He acknowledged the impact the delays had had on Mr 
and Mrs M and that this caused them a great deal of upset and inconvenience. But he was 
satisfied that the claim had ultimately been declined in line with the terms of the warranty so 
he couldnt fairly ask NHBC to carry out the repairs. He also thought the total compensation 
of £3,750 offered by NHBC was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They say:
There was only a delay in reporting the complaint to this service because of the 
delays caused by NHBC.
Drainage experts have said the sump pump isnt integral to the waterproofing of the 
basement. They think the water ingress is due to a weakness in the waterproof 
concrete and a breach of the tanking. The sump pump wouldnt leak into the 
basement if it were full, it would leak onto the driveway. They never said the pump 
wasnt working, only that an engineer advised that one of the three floats was brittle 
and should be replaced.
NHBCs reports are subjective and shouldnt be solely relied on. We shouldve 
spoken to their drainage expert and their building contractor. 
The compensation isnt enough to recognise the situation and they think NHBC 
dragged their heels on purpose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that Mr and Mrs M wanted to complain to us about the issues covered 
by all their complaints to NHBC dating back to the first one in December 2018.
We told them we couldnt consider all of their complaints against NHBC  only the issues 
addressed in their most recent final response letters from September and November 2019. 
This is because they brought them to us more than six months after they received NHBCs 
final response letters to the previous complaints.
Weve explained that the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution (DISP) rules, 
which govern our service, dont allow us to look into complaints brought to us more than six months after a businesss final response to a complaint, unless the business consents or 
there are exceptional circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaints were brought to us more than six months after most of NHBCs 
final response letters. NHBC dont consent to our looking into the parts of this complaint that 
are out of time.
I know Mr and Mrs M were still in contact with NHBC following their earlier final response 
letters. But Im satisfied the letters made the time limit clear and any continued contact 
doesnt override the deadlines set out. And there are no exceptional circumstances which 
might allow us to look into it despite it being brought to us out of time.
So, we cant look into those aspects of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and I cant deal with them 
here.
NHBCs self-build warranty is split into two different sections. The first provides cover 
between the time a consumer places a deposit on a new home and the date they complete. 
The second part of the warranty covers years one to 10 after completion and provides cover 
for physical damage to certain specified parts of the home caused by a defect. NHBC define 
a defect as:
A defect in the Home resulting from a breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement. 
Failure to follow the guidance supporting the NHBCs Requirements does not in itself 
amount to a Defect as there may be other ways that the required performance can be 
achieved.
So NHBCs investigations needed to determine whether there was a defect (a failure to 
follow their standards) in the build - and so whether this was covered by the warranty.
The important thing for NHBC was to investigate what was causing the water ingress into the 
basement. I can see that both NHBC and Mr and Mrs M had leak detection reports carried 
out in November 2018 and January 2019 and neither could find a source of the water 
ingress.
Because the reports couldnt identify the cause of the water ingress, NHBC commissioned 
further investigations. They sent out a specialist surveyor in April 2019 who complied a 
report which said:
Without stripping out all finishes and then monitoring the basement over a period of 
time we cannot prove the exact source of water.
It also commented on the two previous reports and said:
Both confirmed they could find no initial source of water, both concluded that it was 
ground water. Both are competent reports and we would agree with their conclusion.
On that basis, NHBC made the assumption that the cause might be ground water seeping 
into the basement. They took into account the extensive recommendations and then 
arranged their own updated report. They did this because there was still seemingly no 
reasonable explanation other than ground water.
NHBCs updated report from May 2019 accepts the claim. But it also comments on the sump 
pump:During the visit, a drainage contractor was present. They advised that the drainage 
is not blocked, but that a sump pump was not operating correctly. This is shown in 
photograph 12 above  the leak detection contractor determined that this was the 
cause of the water ingress. The drainage contractor does not agree with this opinion 
as the sump pump is a backup, should the chamber become over-whelmed.
The sump pump has been a theme in the expert reports throughout this claim and each one 
comments on its importance in the investigation as to how the water was getting into the 
basement. The reports from December 2018, April 2019 and May 2019 all reflect that the 
water level within the pumping chamber was full.
As I understand it, the sump pump helps keep the area beneath a building dry and ultimately 
prevents it from flooding. Its installed in a sump pit or pumping chamber which is filled with 
water that flows through the drainage system and through natural water movement through 
the soil. The sump pump then pumps water out and away from the house.
On 13 June 2019 NHBC emailed Mrs M attaching a tender schedule and explaining what 
would happen when the contractors attended. NHBC put the tender out to a selection of 
contractors but it was eventually unsuccessful. I can appreciate how frustrating this must 
have been for Mr and Mrs M.
In an email to Mrs M on 18 September 2019 NHBC explained that the tender failed because 
the scope of works wasnt detailed enough. Ultimately because they still hadnt identified the 
exact route of the water ingress into the basement. They highlighted that they were 
concerned about the land drain and sump pump. So, another visit was arranged to try to 
identify again what was causing the water ingress.
I agree NHBC caused unnecessary delays between May 2019 and September 2019. Their 
initial investigations should have been more thorough and given a more concrete answer as 
to where the water ingress was coming from.
NHBC had the information that the sump pump wasnt working correctly from the report in 
May 2019. They should have followed this line of enquiry up further at this point. Their failure 
to do this meant the claim progressed without the full facts and wasted a great deal of Mr 
and Mrs Ms time. During this time, they were unable to use any of their basement rooms 
and they had to live with the mould. On top of this, there was the worry and inconvenience of 
the ongoing claim.
NHBCs final report dated 7 October 2019 concludes that the deterioration and lack of 
maintenance to the sump pump was causing the water ingress. It explains that a full 
pumping chamber allowed hydrostatic pressure to build up against the basement wall and 
exploited its weakness.
It was also noted that Mr and Mrs M had recently made repairs to the sump pump. I know Mr 
and Mrs M feel strongly that the sump pump isnt the issue and have said their drainage 
specialist has said the same. But Im persuaded by the expert evidence Ive seen that its 
more likely this is the cause of the water ingress and its not a breach of the tanking as Mr 
and Mrs M suggest.
On page two of the warranty, it lists general exclusions and says:
NHBC will not be liable for.
d Wear and tear
e Deterioration caused by neglect or failure to carry out normal or specific 
maintenanceNHBC have explained that the sump pump is vital for the waterproofing of the basement. 
And having reviewed the evidence provided, Im satisfied this is true. Im not persuaded by 
Mr and Mrs Ms argument that the sump pump is only a backup and that living on a hill 
means it wasnt strictly a necessary part of the build.
The fact that the original pump was poorly maintained is the most likely cause the water 
ingress. And that amounts to wear and tear. Mr and Mrs M know the pump wasnt in good 
repair  this is why they had repairs carried out.
As per the above quote, wear and tear isnt covered under the terms of the warranty. And 
having reviewed all expert evidence presented, Im satisfied NHBC have acted reasonably 
and fairly in coming to their decision to decline the claim.
To summarise, the sump pump is an integral part of the buildings defences against water 
ingress. Its not there for cosmetic reasons, its there to serve a purpose. Theres no dispute 
it was damaged and needed repair and so wasnt performing its intended function. Which 
meant the building wasnt defended from water ingress as the design of the building 
intended. There was water ingress  and no-one has identified a credible alternative source 
of  or reason for  that ingress.
Going through any claims process can be a stressful time and I can appreciate Mr and 
Mrs Ms disappointment at ultimately having their claim declined after such a long process. I 
agree there were avoidable delays, and this caused Mr and Mrs M a lot of wasted time and 
frustration.
I know Mr and Mrs M were unable to use the games room and cinema room located in the 
basement throughout the claim. Thankfully no essential facilities like their kitchen or 
bathroom were affected. So, they could continue to carry on their daily lives in the house 
without the impact of losing any essential facilities.
Although I can appreciate living with mould downstairs and an ongoing claim wouldve 
caused them both a degree of stress and inconvenience. I think the £3,750 is reasonable 
compensation for their trouble and upset.
I bear in mind that whilst the claim has been ongoing for more than a year, NHBC arent 
responsible for a year of delay. The claim would have reasonably taken some time to deal 
with however swiftly NHBC had acted.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman