DRN-2998515
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the settlement method AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) offered when she 
claimed for theft under her home insurance.
What happened
Mrs B had buildings and contents insurance with AXA, including cover for personal 
possessions. During her house move, a box of possessions including jewellery, watches, 
cameras and perfume, went missing so she claimed under her home insurance.
AXA accepted Mrs Bs claim under the personal possessions (PP) cover. But, while it cash 
settled for some items, Mrs B was unhappy that it wouldnt cash settle her jewellery claim. 
AXA said it could replace the jewellery using its network and the policy terms allowed it to do 
that. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that AXA had settled the claim in 
line with the policy terms and conditions and that Mrs B would be able to replace her missing 
jewellery using the retailers AXA offered.
Mrs B didnt agree, and she asked for further consideration of her complaint. She didnt think 
she could replace her old jewellery through modern retailers.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mrs Bs jewellery went missing and that her policy provided cover. 
So, my role here is to decide whether AXAs settlement offer was in line with the policy.
Mrs B is unhappy with the settlement offer for her jewellery only, because she doesnt think it 
replaces her loss on a like for like basis. Shed like a cash settlement so she can buy 
replacements from the second-hand market.
Ive looked at the policy to see how AXA should settle the claim. It says: 
How we settle claims
We may repair, reinstate or replace the damaged property. If we cannot replace or repair 
the property we may pay for the loss or damage in cash or cash alternative (including 
vouchers and/or store cards). 
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree to 
pay a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment will not exceed the amount we 
would have paid the preferred supplier. 
If no equivalent replacement is available then we will pay the full replacement cost of the 
item with no discount applied.
With your agreement we may appoint an approved supplier to act on our behalf to validate 
your claim. They are authorised to arrange a quotation, a repair or a replacement. 
Contents and Business equipment
We will settle claims for loss or damage to items which are beyond economic repair on the 
basis of cost as new, subject to the excess
I think the policy is clear  AXA may offer cash if it cannot replace the jewellery. As AXA 
confirmed the jewellery can be replaced using its network, Im satisfied theres no 
requirement for it to offer a cash settlement. 
I understand Mrs B doesnt think its network can replace her jewellery. Thats because it was 
old (though not antique), had sentimental value and she doesnt want to purchase from the 
shops available through AXAs network. Im sorry that Mrs B experienced the loss of 
sentimental items, and I can see why shed be upset with the situation she now finds herself 
in. However, AXA provided cover for the jewellery itself and it simply cant replace the 
sentimental value. I realise Mrs B might want the experience of shopping for second-hand 
jewellery, but AXAs responsibility here is to replace what shes lost. So, AXA will replace a 
gold bracelet with another gold bracelet of a similar colour, weight and design.  
Overall, Im satisfied that AXA offered to settle Mrs Bs claim in line with the policy. I wont be 
asking AXA to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman