DRN-1748411
 
The complaint
Mrs E has complained about the administration of her mortgage account by National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
Mrs Es interest-only mortgage had reached the end of its term in 2017. In March 2019 
NatWest moved the account to its forbearance department, as it hadnt been repaid. 
NatWest had been unable to agree a term extension, as the property was rented to students. 
Mrs E was now living abroad and had given the bank her new address.
The mortgage was finally redeemed on 11 December 2019, but during the intervening nine 
months, Mrs E raised a number of complaints about the way NatWest had dealt with her, 
largely around its poor communication, which Mrs E says has caused her trouble and upset, 
and delay in completing her new mortgage.
NatWest accepted that its service had fallen short in some respects and that it could have 
handled things better. The bank offered compensation of £100 for trouble and upset, and to 
refund interest of £286.20. 
Mrs E wasnt satisfied with this and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, An 
investigator looked at the complaint and, after reviewing what had happened, didnt think 
NatWest had done enough to put things right. The investigator found the bank had ignored a 
third party mandate and so hadnt sent correspondence to Mrs Es solicitors. The bank also 
sent correspondence to the new lender instead of Mrs Es solicitors. 
The investigator found that NatWest hadnt made sufficient effort to try to contact Mrs E and 
that it sent a third party notice only to the mortgaged property, and not to Mrs Es home 
address. Although Mrs E had said that NatWest hadnt sent a letter to her solicitors 
confirming a 30-day hold on legal action, the investigator was satisfied this had been sent.
But overall, the investigator through NatWest should pay an additional £150 compensation 
for its poor customer service.
NatWest hasnt responded to the investigators findings, and Mrs E hasnt accepted his 
recommendation. Mrs E thinks the compensation she is due should be several thousand 
pounds.
Because the matter is unresolved, it now falls to me to make a final decision on this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I note that Mrs E made a previous complaint to us about NatWest refusing to allow a 
term extension. An adjudicator issued her findings on that complaint on 25 February 2019, 
when the complaint wasnt upheld. Mrs E didnt respond to the investigator, although doesnt 
dispute she received her findings. Mrs E has asked if that complaint can be re-opened. 
Ive considered Mrs Es request, but we will not be reopening the complaint that was closed 
a year and a half ago. It was explained to Mrs E in February 2019 that if she didnt agree 
with the adjudicators findings, she could ask for a final decision  and was given a date by 
which to reply. As there was no request for a final decision by the specified date, the 
complaint was closed. 
If we were to look at complaints where consumers hadnt pursued them for substantial 
periods (in this case over18 months) thered be no finality for businesses. It would also be 
impossible for us to provide an effective informal dispute resolution service, as complaints 
could run on and on without us or businesses knowing when the consumer would come back 
to us.
There has to be finality to our process and both we and NatWest thought that point had been 
reached 18 months ago.  NatWest was entitled to proceed on the basis that the complaint 
had been resolved in March 2019, after Mrs E did not contact us following the investigators 
letter sent to her on 25 February 2019.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied its not appropriate to reopen Mrs Es previous complaint.
In relation to this current complaint, I agree with the investigator that NatWests customer 
service fell below the standard I would have expected. 
I will not set out each and every instance of where things went wrong. There are two reasons 
for this:  first, in a detailed letter dated 16 April 2020 the investigator set out everything that 
had happened. Both Mrs E and NatWest have a copy of that letter, and the basic facts of 
what happened arent in dispute, so I dont need to repeat all the details here.
Secondly, we are required to publish our decisions and so must take care not to include any 
information which might identify the consumer. Given this stricture, I have deliberately 
omitted the details of what happened in order to preserve Mrs Es anonymity. But I confirm I 
have read everything thats been provided, and Im fully aware of the timeline involved and 
where NatWests service fell short.
Having reviewed everything thats happened, I dont think NatWest took sufficient care in its 
communication with Mrs E. Specifically, the bank failed to note a third party mandate, which 
resulted in the bank failing to correspond with Mrs Es solicitors. I also note that the bank 
wrote to Mrs Es new mortgage lender, rather than her own solicitors. 
NatWest also failed to take appropriate steps to contact Mrs E and didnt call her back when 
the bank had promised to do so. Im satisfied NatWest was aware that Mrs E wasnt in the 
UK, and so any difficulties in communicating with her were likely to cause her additional 
frustration.
Putting things right
Overall, Im satisfied NatWests actions caused delay in Mrs Es new mortgage going ahead. 
NatWest has offered to refund interest of £286.20, which I think is fair, as this covers any 
financial detriment to Mrs E. 
For its poor customer service, NatWest offered £100 compensation. I agree with the 
investigator that this is insufficient for the distress, inconvenience, trouble and upset caused to Mrs E. But I disagree with Mrs E that she should receive a substantial award of 
compensation. I think a further £150 is fair, reasonable and proportionate in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that, in full and final settlement of this complaint, in addition to the £286.20 for 
financial loss and £100 compensation for trouble and upset which National Westminster 
Bank Plc has already offered, a further £150 compensation should be paid to Mrs E. I make 
no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman