DRN-2846572
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he got with finance provided by N.I.I.B. Group Limited (trading as 
Northridge Finance) is of unsatisfactory quality.   
What happened
Mr G acquired this car in January 2020 with hire purchase agreement (HPA) from 
Northridge. The same day he noticed a noise from the engine and took it back to the 
supplying dealer. The supplying dealer didnt think there was anything wrong so Mr G 
contacted the manufacturer and took the car for checks at a main dealer for this particular 
brand. 
The main dealer thought the car might have a faulty valve and that was replaced. The noise 
persisted however and the manufacturer took the car for a few days. Technicians inspected 
and concluded that the noise was characteristic for this particular vehicle. Mr G remained 
unhappy and he complained to Northridge - because it supplied the car under the finance 
agreement. Northridge didnt accept there was anything wrong, in light of the manufacturers 
conclusions, so Mr G referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at the evidence - including job cards supplied by the dealer 
and a recording of the noise that Mr G provided. She was satisfied the car makes a sound 
that a reasonable person wouldnt expect - for a vehicle of this price, age and mileage - and 
it was likely of unsatisfactory quality when Mr G got it. She recommended Northridge should 
take the car back and refund the deposit along with 5% of each monthly payment (for 
impaired use) and pay Mr G £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Northridge didnt agree. It suggested an independent expert should be instructed to inspect 
the car. Mr G agreed and the expert checked the car in February 2021. He found the noise 
was very apparent within minutes of the car being left running to bring up temperature. He 
described the sound as a motion turning sound, a knock/bump noise affect which could not 
be heard outside the vehicle or under the bonnet. He was unable to identify a mechanical 
issue and found no noise was apparent on a test drive - but he considered the noise 
returned slightly louder when the vehicle stopped and was left to idle. The expert didnt think 
this level of noise was to be expected. He recommended the cause should be investigated 
further  despite the manufacturers earlier finding that the noise was characteristic. 
The expert suggested it would be useful to have an identical car to compare with Mr Gs 
vehicle. And a like for like comparison was arranged to take place at the dealership - on the 
understanding the comparator vehicle would be the same model, age and mileage as Mr Gs 
car. The dealer was unable to provide a like for like vehicle on the day - they had a similar 
vehicle but that was sold before the comparison could be made. The dealer offered to play 
an audio recording of the noise the other car made for Mr G but he didnt think that was 
appropriate or fair. 
The investigator didnt think this was reasonable either. Shes satisfied the expert confirmed 
the noise is present and unusual. She thinks it should reasonably have been drawn to Mr 
Gs attention before he accepted the car and the finance - even it was characteristic. And 
she remains of the view Mr G should be allowed to reject the car and receive a refund and 
compensation. 
Mr G accepted the investigators recommendations. Northridge didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter. Northridge says (in summary) the manufacturer and the 
dealer agree theres nothing wrong with the car and the noise is characteristic for this 
vehicle. Northridge also refers to an industry review of this particular model which said the 
engine sounds quite coarse when you accelerate and you're exposed to plenty of wind and 
road noise on the motorway. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory  as some of it is here- I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. This means I consider whats most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I want to assure the parties that Ive taken everything thats been said and sent to us into 
account. If I dont address every point thats been made its not because I havent considered 
it. But, Im satisfied that I dont need to comment on every single argument to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. And Ive focused in this decision on 
what I think are the key issues. The rules of our service allow me to do this  and it reflects 
the informal nature of our dispute resolution, which is a free alternative to the courts. 
I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable overall but I must 
have regard to relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and (where appropriate) good industry practice, at the relevant time. Im 
satisfied the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant here.
Northridge supplied this car under a finance agreement and, under the CRA, theres an 
implied term that it would be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Quality of goods 
includes their general state and condition as well as fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. What amounts to satisfactory 
quality will vary according to individual circumstances. Im satisfied this car needed to meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would expect  taking into account its age, price and 
mileage at the point of supply. 
The car was less than a month old with about 5 miles on the clock and cost just under 
£11,000 when Mr G got it. As such I think a reasonable person would expect it to be 
essentially fault free. There seems to be no dispute that Mr Gs car makes a particular sort of 
noise but the parties disagree about whether that sound is to be expected in this particular 
model. 
Im satisfied Mr G reported the noise very soon after he got the car and I think he went to 
some trouble to investigate the cause and in efforts to have the sound removed. I dont think 
hes likely to have done that if this noise wasnt unusual - or if hed heard the same sound on 
a test drive and/or been told about the noise before he bought the car. 
I think it looks as if both of the dealers that Mr G approached about the noise also went to 
some trouble to investigate the cause. Its difficult to see why they would do that if the sound 
wasnt out of the ordinary and/or this sort of car would usually make this sound in the normal 
course of events. I can see the main dealer  who Id expect to be fairly familiar with this brand and model  
went so far as to replace a valve in an attempt to eradicate or diminish the sound. Im 
satisfied the main dealer is unlikely to have done that if the mechanic who checked the car 
didnt think the noise was out of place and might be caused by a fault. 
I appreciate the manufacturer found nothing wrong with the car but I cant reasonably 
exclude the fact that the expert confirmed that the noise is present and unexpected. Im 
satisfied the expert is independent and he seems to have relevant experience and 
qualifications. I think its reasonable to give some weight to what he says in these particular 
circumstances. And Im not persuaded that the industry review Northridge mentions takes 
matters much further - as this refers to engine noise on acceleration not, as is the case with 
Mr Gs car, when its stopped and left to idle.  
On balance overall, I find the weight of the evidence suggests theres a noise present thats 
not usual or normal for most cars. I cant say what might be causing the noise - but I dont 
have to pinpoint a particular fault or issue to find this car is of unsatisfactory quality. I cant 
safely rule out the possibility that the noise is due to a part thats not performing in the way 
that it should - which may have an adverse impact and affect the cars durability. 
I dont think a reasonable person would expect a car of this age, price and mileage to make 
this sound. But, even if I were to accept the noise is characteristic for this particular model, 
Im satisfied its sufficiently obvious and unexpected that it should reasonably have been 
brought to any customers attention before supply. 
Im satisfied Mr G reported the sound very early on. I think the noise was probably present 
when he got the car. And Im not persuaded that he was made aware of the noise before he 
accepted the car and agreed to take out the finance.  
I think a reasonable person would consider the presence of the noise means this car is of 
unsatisfactory quality. I dont think Northridge has done enough to show that the car didnt 
have an inherent defect when it was supplied. And, on balance, I find it more likely than not 
this car was of unsatisfactory quality at the outset.  
Putting things right
I dont think its fair to expect Mr G to keep the car in this situation. Im satisfied that two 
dealers and the manufacturer have checked the car and been unable to eradicate the sound 
- despite having several opportunities to do so. I find it is fair for Northridge to end the 
finance and take the car back at no additional cost to Mr G.
According to the finance agreement, Mr G paid a deposit of £500 cash plus just over £100 
by way of part exchange. I think it is reasonable for Northridge to refund any deposit paid 
with interest in this situation.   
The noise doesnt seem to have stopped Mr G from being able to drive the car but Im 
satisfied his use was probably impaired to some degree because of this abnormal sound. I 
find it fair for Northridge to refund 5% of each monthly payment made to reflect that. 
Im satisfied that Mr G experienced some upset and inconvenience as a result of being 
supplied with this faulty car. I can see he had to take it to a number of different dealers for 
investigations and repairs  although he seems to have been kept mobile while his car was 
off the road. Taking everything into account, I think it is reasonable for Northridge to pay Mr 
G £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.   
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited (trading as Northridge Finance) to:-
1. end the finance agreement and arrange to take the car back at no additional cost to 
Mr G;
2. refund the deposit paid; 
3. refund 5% of each monthly payment made, for impaired use;
4. pay interest at 8% simple a year on the above refunds - from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement; 
5. pay Mr G £200 compensation for associated distress and inconvenience; and
6. in the event Northridge has recorded adverse information about the HPA on Mr Gs 
credit file that should also be removed. 
If Northridge considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman