DRN-4379427
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt refund a credit 
balance from her account to her overseas bank account as requested.
What happened
Mrs S says that following Brexit she was contacted by Barclaycard about her account being 
closed due to her not having a UK address. In March 2022, she was told there was a credit 
balance on her account, and she asked this be sent by cheque to a family member with a 
UK address. She was told this wasnt possible and so she provided the address and IBAN 
for the bank she wanted the funds transferred to. She says this information was enough for 
her other account transfer to take place. However, the transfer wasnt made, and she then 
spent several months in correspondence with Barclaycard where she was asked for 
information which she provided. Mrs S says she has given all the information she can as 
when she asks her bank for a sort code and account number, she is just given the IBAN 
number and told that this contains the required details.
Barclaycard issued a final response letter in December 2022. It upheld Mrs Ss complaint as 
it accepted there had been a delay in processing her credit balance refund. Because of this it 
credited Mrs Ss account with £50. In regard to the underlying issue of the transfer of funds, 
it said that although Mrs S had provided the IBAN number it also needed the sort code, 
account number and SWIFT code. It said it wasnt able to send a cheque to her family 
member as requested as it could only send correspondence to Mrs Ss registered address 
on its record. It confirmed her address had been updated.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Barclaycards response and referred her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator noted that Mrs S had been provided with the details she needed to supply 
for an international transfer to happen. She noted that while Mrs S had provided some of the 
details, she hadnt provided all of these. She said that Barclaycard had followed its usual 
process in regard to the information it needed and as this hadnt been provided, she couldnt 
say it was wrong to not have completed the transfer for Mrs S. However, she didnt think that 
Barclaycard had provided the service it should have as it didnt return the call as requested 
in October 2022 and could have been clearer on this call regarding the information required. 
She noted that it had provided Mrs S with £25 compensation at that time and a further £50 in 
December 2022. She thought this was reasonable.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view. She explained she had needed to travel to 
her branch on several occasions to try to get the requested information and she had 
provided everything she could. She said her overseas bank account didnt have a sort code, 
so she was unable to provide this. She said she had been trying to resolve this issue over 
several months.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint the details of which are set out below.
I can see how frustrating Mrs S has found her dealings with Barclaycard following her credit 
balance refund request. I appreciate Mrs Ss comment about the refund being for a small 
amount but that she isnt prepared to let the issue drop and I agree that she is right to 
continue to pursue the issue as she is entitled to her money.
For me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Barclaycard had done 
something wrong in its dealings with Mrs S or that it had treated her unfairly. Having looked 
at the information provided, I can see that Mrs S asked for the credit balance to be sent by 
cheque and Barclaycard sent a letter dated 20 May 2022, saying this wasnt possible. I do 
not find this unreasonable. Barclaycard said that for the transfer to happen the following 
details needed to be provided:
Banks name
Banks full address
Sorting Code / SWIFT code
International Bank Authorisation Number (IBAN)
Account number
Currency in which the credit needs to be done.
Mrs S provided some information to Barclaycard, but this wasnt sufficient for the transfer 
and a further letter reiterating the information needed was sent to Mrs S dated 15 July 2022. 
Mrs S responded to this letter providing the information she had but this didnt include the 
sorting code / SWIFT code or account number. Following this Barclaycard wrote to Mrs S in 
September 2022 asking for the same information. While I can understand why Mrs S was 
frustrated by being asked for the same information again, as this was what Barclaycard 
required in order to make the transfer, I cannot say that it did anything wrong in regard to 
this.
I note Mrs Ss comments about other transfers being made with the information she had 
provided but each organisation will have its own processes. In this case Barclaycard set out 
the details needed to make the transfer.
Mrs S provided the banks name, address, IBAN and currency details to Barclaycard in June 
2022. While I can see this information didnt separately identify the account number and sort 
code as had been requested, Mrs S said that she was told the IBAN included the account 
number. Mrs S then subsequently provided the BIC number. I have looked at Barclaycards 
internal procedures and can see these note that some UK banks may not have certain 
details and so the customer will need to confirm with their bank the references that are 
required. In this case I think when Mrs S contacted Barclaycard to say she had provided 
everything she could I think it should have done more to look at her case to see what could 
be done. Had it done this a resolution would likely have been identified sooner.
Barclaycard has now confirmed that it has sufficient information from Mrs S to proceed with 
submitting her payment. As I am not aware that Mrs S has provided any new information 
since March 2023, I think Barclaycard could have confirmed with her sooner that it had what 
was needed to proceed.
Barclaycard has said that approval will be needed from its Payment & Banking team as this 
is an exception to the normal process. We asked for further detail in regard to this and 
Barclaycard said that it would normally require the customer to resubmit the transfer request 
but that as it had gone through the complaint process it was able to put this forward if this 
was consented to. It said that it couldnt guarantee approval for the transfer to be completed 
as it was the Payment & Banking team that would approve this.As Mrs S has made it clear that she wants her balance transferred, I think this should now 
be actioned and, in the event, there remains an issue with the transfer Barclaycard should 
contact Mrs S directly to assist her in getting the transfer completed.
In this case, I think that Barclaycard could have done more to assist Mrs S when she was 
struggling to provide the information it had requested. It could also have contacted Mrs S 
when it was aware that it had sufficient information to submit the transfer request.
Barclaycard has paid a total of £75 compensation for the delay and issues experienced but 
given the ongoing issues that Mrs S experienced following the provision of the additional 
information and the lack of support given when she explained that her bank had confirmed 
there was no more information it could provide, I think that Barclaycard should pay a further 
£100 compensation.
Barclaycard accepted my provisional decision. 
Mrs S responded to my provisional decision reiterating that she had provided Barclaycard 
with everything it asked for with the exception of a sort code which isnt available. She said 
she had received two statements from Barclaycard in January 2023 stating the original credit 
amount and compensation of £75 and another statement in April 2023 with only the £75 
compensation and not including the original credit amount. She said that she hadnt received 
any payment or other correspondence from Barclaycard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out my reasoning in my provisional decision and as both parties have now responded I 
am able to issue my final decision. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think that Barclaycard should have done more to 
assist Mrs S in resolving the issue with the transfer of funds from her account. She made it 
clear the details she was able to provide and the issues she was experiencing. As 
Barclaycard has said that it now has the information needed, I would expect it to move 
ahead with submitting the transfer request. I note Barclaycards comment that the transfer is 
subject to approval by its Payment & Banking team but I would expect, given the issues 
Mrs S has experienced that Barclaycard will work with Mrs S to ensure the transfer is 
actioned.
I note Mrs Ss comments about the statements she has received from Barclaycard and that 
her April 2023 statement didnt include her original credit amount, just the compensation 
amount. If Mrs S requires further statements, then she should contact Barclaycard. In regard 
to the transfer amount, it is expected that this will include the original credit amount that was 
on Mrs Ss account along with the compensation she has been awarded.Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should, as it has agreed:
submit Mrs Ss transfer request. In the event this is unsuccessful it should work with 
Mrs S to ensure any issues are resolved; and
pay Mrs S a further £100 for the delays and stress she has experienced through this 
process.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman