DRN-3161412
The complaint
Ms K complains about a loan application she made with Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as 
V12 Retail Finance.
What happened
In June 2020, Ms K wanted to buy some camera equipment which she had chosen from a 
supplier. In order to pay for the equipment, the supplier made arrangements for Ms K to 
apply for a loan with Secure Trust.
Unfortunately for Ms K, the loan application was declined so she asked Secure Trust for the 
reason why. Secure Trust told Ms K her application didnt meet their lending criteria. But, 
upon further conversations with the supplier, Ms K discovered that the application was 
declined because her visa was due to expire before the proposed final repayment date of the 
loan.
Unhappy with how shed been treated, Ms K complained to Secure Trust. In their response 
they agreed they shouldnt have passed on the information about Ms Ks visa, to the 
supplier. Secure Trust paid £100 to Ms K for the distress and inconvenience their error had 
caused. They also explained that their decision to decline the application, was based upon 
the information they had at the time about Ms Ks visa.
Ms K didnt accept this and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into 
the case and found that Secure Trust are able to decide when they provide loans and that 
they hadnt made an error when the processed Ms Ks application. 
The investigator said that Secure Trust used the information given to them at the time, but 
agreed that they shouldnt have given the supplier the details about Ms Ks visa. The 
investigator concluded that the payment of £100 made to Ms K by Secure Trust was fair, 
given the distress and inconvenience they had caused to her.
Ms K didnt agree and said that Secure Trust had discriminated against her, buy not asking 
about her future visa status, or by offering her a loan over a shorter term. The investigator 
didnt change their conclusions and Ms Ks complaint has now been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ks complaint relates to a loan agreement which she was hoping to take out with Secure 
Trust. From what Ive seen from Secure Trust, I think the loan Ms K was applying for, would 
have been a regulated agreement. And I think its one which this service has the power to 
consider a complaint about.
Throughout her complaint to Secure Trust, Ms K says they should have made further 
enquiries with her, before declining her application for the loan. I think its at the discretion of 
Secure Trust as to whether or not they will offer a credit facility to a customer who applies for 
borrowing. But I still think the onus was on Secure Trust to treat Ms K fairly. So, Ive 
considered the responsibility on Secure Trust during the application and if any errors were 
made, in the lead up to their lending decision.
Secure Trust have sent us their records of the loan application Ms K made. I can see from 
the records that Secure Trust asked Ms K various details about her income, her employer 
and her address history. The information collected at the application stage didnt ask for the 
status of the applicants visa. Instead, Secure Trust say these details were gathered when 
they performed a check with a credit reference agency.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think Secure Trust made an error when they 
processed Ms Ks application. I say this because I think Secure Trust based their decision on 
the details collected from Ms K and when they contacted a credit reference agency for other 
information. In other words, from the looking at the application, I dont think Secure Trust 
made an error when inputting Ms Ks details.
So, Ive gone on to consider if Secure Trust had a responsibility to check the visa details with 
Ms K, before they declined her application.
Ms K has told us that she was aware of the status of her visa. I can also see that the 
duration of the loan Ms K applied for, exceeded the expiry date of her visa. I acknowledge 
that Ms K says her visa status wasnt due to change, after its expiry date. However, I think 
both Ms K and Secure Trust accept that the visa was due to expire before the loan Ms K was 
applying for, was due to end.
Ive concluded that Ms K wasnt asked to provide the status of her visa by Secure Trust. 
Instead, that information was gathered later elsewhere. I accept Ms K may not have thought 
it necessary to tell Secure Trust about her visa status beforehand. But, I dont think the 
responsibility to pause the application and make further enquires about the visa was on 
Secure Trust, before the lending decision was finalised. 
Overall, I think Secure Trust treated Ms K fairly with the loan application, when they sought 
information from the credit reference agency. I think it was fair and reasonable for Secure 
Trust to have then used that information to bring about their lending decision.
Ms K also says that Secure Trust should have given her the option of reapplying for the loan, 
with a shorter term. She says they could have organised the loan to finish before the expiry 
of her visa. Secure Trust says that the minimum duration that they offer a loan, is 12 months. 
While I understand Ms K arguments here, I dont think Secure Trust were able to offer loan 
terms for less than 12 months. So, even if Secure Trust had made further enquiries with her, 
I still dont think it would have resulted in a different outcome.
The Standards of Lending Practice say the customer should be given the primary reason for 
a declined application. As such, I think its fair in circumstances where a customers 
application is declined for borrowing, that the lender would explain clearly to that customer 
why their application wasnt successful.
In Ms Ks case, Secure Trust has explained that they made a mistake in telling the supplier 
about what they had learned about Ms Ks visa status. I agree that Secure Trust didnt treat 
Ms K fairly here, when they told the supplier the reason, rather than Ms K directly. Ms K says 
she was very unhappy that Secure Trust had given the supplier information about the status 
of her visa.Having looked at all the evidence, I can understand why Ms K was unhappy that Secure 
Trust gave the supplier information about her visa. It must have been very disappointing, 
given Ms K was looking forward to buying some camera equipment and was satisfied with 
her own credit worthiness.
However, I think Secure Trusts payment of £100 for the distress and inconvenience she has 
suffered is fair. I think the impact on Ms K of Secure Trusts error, was limited to the worry 
that the supplier was aware of the status of her visa. And while I dont doubt this cause Ms K 
worry, I dont think it was to such an extent as to require Secure Trust to increase the 
payment theyve made.
In all the circumstances, I agree Secure Trust made an error when they revealed information 
about Ms Ks visa status to the supplier. But, I think their payment of £100 is fair, in light of 
the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
Overall, I think Secure Trust treated Ms K fairly during the processing of the loan application. 
I dont think there was a responsibility on Secure Trust to have made further enquiries about 
her visa before the lending decision was made, or to have offered the loan over a shorter 
term.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint  in the sense that I dont to require 
Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as V12 Retail Finance to take any further action to settle this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman