DRN-3892719
The complaint
Miss H complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc lent to her irresponsibly when it gave her a 
personal loan.
What happened
Miss H took out an unsecured loan for £8,500 with Bank of Ireland in July 2018. 
Miss H said that Bank of Ireland failed to conduct sufficient checks on her individual financial 
position. She thought if Bank of Ireland had made reasonable checks it would have realised 
she would struggle to repay the loan. Miss H asked Bank of Ireland to write off the loan. 
Our investigator thought Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. Our investigator thought that 
Miss H was over-indebted elsewhere and Bank of Ireland shouldnt have lent to her. 
Bank of Ireland disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
When I reviewed the case I came to a different conclusion. I wrote to both parties to explain 
and provided each party with further time to make comments on my provisional decision. 
Neither party responded, so I see no reason to depart from that decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I considered Miss Hs complaint.
Bank of Ireland had to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
H could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such has how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and Miss Hs income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Bank of Ireland should fairly and reasonable have 
done more to establish that  for example, if the results of the initial checks showed areas of 
concern. There might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Miss H told our investigator that she was over-indebted at the time of her application for the 
loan. She said that she had five credit cards and four other loans. She said that the 
repayments on these as well as the cost of paying her mortgage made the loan unaffordable 
for her and Bank of Ireland should have realised this. Miss H also said that she was on 
unpaid leave at the time of her application as she was acting as a carer for her mother, so 
she didnt have an income. 
Our investigator asked for further information about the credit checks that were completed by 
Bank of Ireland. Bank of Ireland didnt reply by the deadline set by the investigator, so the 
investigator issued their view without that information. I dont think this was fair. While Bank 
of Ireland was late in its response, it sought clarification of the request before the 
investigators view was issued and our investigator should have taken this into account, 
provided clarification and set another short deadline for the information to be provided.
I asked both parties for additional information. Bank of Ireland provided a copy of the results 
of the checks it made. I asked Miss H for a copy of her full credit file but I did not receive this.
Having seen the results of the checks Bank of Ireland did, and the responses Miss H 
provided to Bank of Irelands questions about her finances at the time of application, I am 
satisfied that the checks Bank of Ireland did were reasonable and proportionate.
Miss H told Bank of Ireland that she had a monthly net income of £1,800 and she had 
outstanding credit card balances totalling £5,000. The online application form Miss H 
completed asked details of her other expenditure and her answers indicated that she had a 
reasonable disposable income each month after the repayments for the loan were taken into 
account.
I can see that from the credit checks Bank of Ireland completed that Miss H had about 
£8,600 owing on other active credit accounts and that her income was broadly as she had 
declared. She wasnt utilising a high level of the credit available to her. There is no evidence 
in the checks of any defaults or late payments on her credit accounts. Nor is there an 
indication that Miss H had any County Court Judgements (CCJs) or other indication of 
difficulty. While Miss H told this service her income was actually far lower, I think Bank of 
Ireland was entitled to rely on the results of its checks and Miss Hs personal declaration at 
the time.
On the evidence available to me I think the checks Bank of Ireland made were reasonable 
and proportionate and I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably. As a result, I dont think 
Miss H lost out as a result of anything Bank of Ireland might have done wrong and I dont 
think Bank of Ireland needs to pay compensation.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint. It follows that I do not think Bank of Ireland (UK) plc 
needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman