DRN-3606451
The complaint
Mrs A complains Professional Centrum Limited trading as Global Accidents (PCL) havent
paid her the compensation theyve received for her personal injury claim following a road
traffic accident
What happened
In June 2018, Mrs A was involved in a road traffic accident in France. PCL were instructed
by Mrs A to manage a personal injury claim for her.
Mrs A said the third-party insurer (TPI) sent the compensation for her personal injury claim to
PCL in February 2020. Mrs A said she hasnt received any of this payment from PCL. She
complained to them. PCL didnt respond to Mrs As complaint, so she referred her complaint
to us.
PCL said they no longer had access to some of Mrs As details because of business
changes. But said theyd paid Mrs A in cash. Our investigator wasnt persuaded by the
evidence shed seen. And said PCL should pay Mrs A £2,812.50 plus 8% interest. And £100
for the trouble and upset that had been caused.
PCL didnt agree they said theyd shown evidence of the payment being made in cash. And
this was a usual payment method as some of their clients couldnt accept payment by bank
transfer. PCL asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Up until 31 March 2019, claims management companies (CMC) were regulated by the
Claims Management Regulator. And complaints about CMCs were dealt with by the Legal
Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the regulation of CMCs switched to the Financial Conduct
Authority, and complaints moved to the Claims Management Ombudsman.
Mrs As accident happened in 2018 while in France, but her complaint is about a
compensation claim that she said should have been paid in 2020. Some CMC activities fell
out of the jurisdiction of the Claims Management Ombudsman after they moved in April
2019. But Mrs As complaint is about a personal injury claim. And certain claims involving
personal injury since 1 April 2019, can be considered as part of our claims management
jurisdiction.
PCL has shown that in January 2020 the third-party insurer (TPI) offered £3,000 along with
treatment costs of £735 as settlement for Mrs As personal injury claim. In the same month
PCL sent an email to the TPI saying Mrs A had accepted the settlement offer.
I can see that in February 2020 Mrs A signed a form of authority that authorised the TPI to
pay the settlement offer to PCL.
PCL said the TPI sent the payment to them by cheque that included all of Mrs As
compensation, fees and disbursements. And said Mrs A was paid this, less PCLs fee of
25%. At first PCL said this was paid by bank transfer in March or April 2020. And later said
Mrs A was paid her compensation between 21 and 23 March 2020. PCL have also sent an
invoice dated 10 April 2020 that said the settlement was paid to Mrs A in cash.
PCL told us their accountant had managed to get the bank statements for around the
relevant time. But PCL havent provided as requested any bank statements showing the
receipt of the cheque, a bank transfer or this amount of cash being withdrawn. I know PCL
said theyd had data taken and various employees had left. But the onus is on PCL to
provide evidence to show that theyd paid Mrs A her compensation.
PCL said that data was no longer available because of a breakdown within the business
structure. But the Claims Management  Conduct of Business says:
CMCOB 2.4 Record keeping
a firm should have appropriate systems and controls in place with respect to the adequacy of,
access to, and the security of its records so that the firm may fulfil its regulatory and statutory
obligations. With respect to retention periods, the general principle is that records should be
retained for as long as is relevant for the purposes for which they are made.
And
CASS 5.5.84  Records
A firm must ensure that proper records, sufficient to show and explain the firm's transactions
and commitments in respect of its client money, are made and retained for a period of three
years after they were made.
The invoice PCL say is evidence that they paid Mrs A her settlement offer in cash shows a total
amount of £3,750. Mrs As compensation was £3,000 with treatment costs of £735, in total
£3735. After deducting PCLs fee of 25% this would leave a balance of £2,801.25 not as PCLs
invoice says £2,812.50. PCL said it wasnt unusual for some clients to be paid in cash and 
showed some examples of when this may have happened. But they havent shown a
witnessed or signed receipt showing the cash was paid and accepted by Mrs A for her
compensation.
While I understand the difficulties, PCL have experienced theyve given conflicting and
inaccurate information. So, Im not satisfied that they have paid Mrs A her compensation. And I
dont think its fair and reasonable for Mrs A to be impacted by the conflict thats happened within
PCLs business model. Im persuaded by Mrs As testimony that she hasnt received the
compensation that she is entitled to.
So, I agree with our investigator that PCL should pay Mrs A her compensation less PCLs fee of
25%. But I calculate this to be £2,801.25. And 8% simple interest should be added to this
amount from the date the compensation should have been paid to the date of settlement.
This must have been a distressing time for Mrs A, especially having been involved in an accident
where she suffered personal injury. So, I also intend to ask PCL to pay Mrs A £100 for the
trouble and upset their actions have caused her.Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party presented any further representations for consideration.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Professional Centrum Limited trading as Global Accidents 
to pay:
Mrs A her settlement offer of £3,735 less their fee of 25% - £2801.25 plus 8%
simple interest on this amount from the date the payment should have been paid to
date of settlement; and
£100 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman