DRN-3937662
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of repairs by Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited 
after he claimed on his Taxi insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms taxi was damaged in an accident with a third party, so he claimed on his policy. The 
third party had damaged the rear offside door and the back of the taxi. Following the repairs 
Mr M said the door wouldnt close properly, the handle on the inside kept falling off and the 
door seal also would fall off. 
Mr M said he raised this with the repairer who was appointed by Markerstudy and was told 
that the new seals needed time to settle. As there were still issues with the door, the repairer 
carried out rectification work to fix the issues. Mr M said these werent completed within the 
time frame they should have been and because of this he lost income as he had to rent 
another taxi while his car had the additional work completed. Because of this Mr M 
complained to Markerstudy. 
Markerstudy reviewed the complaint and partially upheld it. It said Mr Ms policy provides a 
hire vehicle for up to seven days while his is in for repair, and as this was provided 
Markerstudy thought it had acted in line with the policy. However, Markerstudy did 
acknowledge issues with the repair and offered Mr M £75 compensation. Unhappy with 
Markerstudys response, Mr M referred his complaint here. He also said the repairer didnt fix 
the issues and so he ultimately had them repaired by another garage, which he paid for.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He found that Mr 
Ms policy only provided a hire car if Mr M was found to not be at fault for the accident. And 
as this was still in dispute Mr M had only been provided with a courtesy car by the repairing 
garage, which he couldnt use as a taxi. He also found Mr M had paid £286.66 to fix the 
issues with the poor repair. Because of this he recommended Markerstudy pay Mr M what 
he paid for the repairs, plus compensate him for his lost earnings due to the poor repairs, 
which amounted to £892.77. Our Investigator also recommended Markerstudy pay an 
additional £150 compensation on top of the £75 already offered for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Markerstudy didnt agree. It said Mr M hadnt made them aware of the ongoing issues with 
the repair. It also said the repairer had acknowledged the initial issues and rectified them as 
a goodwill gesture. Markerstudy said this was because when the car had been returned to 
the repairer a bolt was missing from the door and so it thought someone else had tampered 
with it after it had been repaired. It also said it had a report confirming this and so didnt think 
it should be held responsible for the poor repairs or loss of earnings. 
As Markerstudy didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has a comprehensive insurance policy for his taxi with Markerstudy. The policy says in 
the event of a claim for accidental damage that Markerstudy will repair Mr Ms taxi and that 
the repairs are guaranteed. Even if they werent guaranteed it would be fair and reasonable 
to expect the repairs to be lasting and effective.  
Its not disputed that Markerstudy repaired Mr Ms taxi or that Markerstudy is responsible for 
the quality of those repairs. However, Markerstudy has said it thinks someone else has 
tampered with the door since it repaired Mr Ms taxi. Markerstudy has referred to a report 
which shows this and refers to a bolt missing from the door, which it said caused the door to 
drop. 
Markerstudy hasnt provided this report but has provided an e-mail from the repairer which 
says when the taxi was returned, due to an issue with the door, a bolt was missing and said 
the car wasnt like that when it left the repairers. While Ive considered this it doesnt 
persuaded me this means the repairs were of the required standard, or that any issues with 
them was rectified by Markerstudy. 
I say this because Mr M has provided a video and pictures of the door which shows the 
handle on the inside comes off and also shows the seal around the door hanging off. Hes 
also provided an invoice for the issues with the door to be fixed which is dated some months 
after he complained to Markerstudy. He also said hes contacted the repairer multiple times 
about these problems and Markerstudys contact notes seem to support this, so Im 
persuaded by Mr Ms testimony. Im therefore satisfied its most likely there were issues with 
the repair which Markerstudy was given the opportunity to rectify and didnt. This therefore 
meant Mr M needed to go elsewhere to get them fixed. Therefore, Markerstudy should pay 
Mr M what he paid to rectify the poor repair, £286.66. 
Mr M has also explained that due to having the poor repairs he lost out on earnings as he 
had to rent another taxi. He said by renting the taxi he lost 40% of his earnings as this is the 
fee for the taxi he rented and that this equated to a loss of £892.77. Mr M has provided 
evidence of the earnings he had and a calculation to show the loss to him, taking into 
account savings he also made. Im persuaded by this and as Im satisfied hes only incurred 
this loss due to Markerstudys agents poor repairs, Markerstudy need to pay Mr M £892.77 
for his loss of earnings. For the loss of earnings and the cost to rectify the poor repairs, 
Markerstudy also needs to add 8% simple interest per year to these amounts to compensate 
Mr M for not having the money. This should be calculated from the date Mr M had the lost 
earnings, until the date of payment and from when he paid for rectify the poor repairs, until 
the date of payment. 
Im also satisfied all of this has caused Mr M unnecessary distress and inconvenience as 
hes had to raise the issues with the repairer, arranged alternative repairs and also sorted a 
replacement taxi while the issues were attempted to be fixed. To compensate Mr M for this 
Markerstudy should pay him an additional £150 on top of the £75 its already offered.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to:
1. Pay Mr M £286.66 to rectify the poor repairs
2. Pay Mr M £892.77 for loss of earnings3. Pay Mr M an additional £150 for distress and inconvenience
For 1 and 2 above, Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited also needs to add 8% simple 
interest per year to the amount it pays to compensate Mr M for not having the money. For 1 
this needs to be calculated from the date Mr M paid for the poor repairs until the date of 
payment, and for 2 this needs to be calculated from the date Mr M had the lost earnings until 
the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman