DRN-2318639
The complaint
Mr C complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold him a term 
assurance policy. He says the adviser didnt explain that the premiums would increase by 
more than the rate of inflation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C met with a Phoenix (previously Pearl) adviser in May 2000 and took out a 
lump sum life cover plan (the policy) on the life of Mrs C. Whilst the policy provided cover for 
Mrs C, it was owned by Mr C. At the time of the advice, Mr and Mrs C had two young 
children and Mrs C was 39 years old. The policy would pay out a lump sum in the event of 
Mrs Cs death and as a term assurance policy, it provided cover up until her 75th birthday. 
The policy was index linked and was subject to yearly reviews where both the premiums and 
sum assured could increase. Mr C complained to Phoenix following the 2019 review. He said 
that the adviser had led him to believe the premiums would only increase by the rate of 
inflation each year and in fact, theyd increased at a greater rate than this. He also didnt 
think the adviser made it clear how long the policy would last for. 
Phoenix didn't uphold Mr Cs complaint about the mis-sale of his policy. It said the fact find 
showed that this policy met with Mr C and his familys needs. Phoenix also said the key 
elements of the policy, including how the premiums would increase and the term of the 
policy, were explained to Mr C at the time of the sale.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, she thought the documents provided to 
Mr C at the point of sale and the review letters sent each year since the sale, were clear 
about how the policy worked. She also considered the policy was suitable in light of Mr Cs 
priorities and needs which were identified at the time of the advice. 
Mr C disagreed. In short, he made the following points:
He wasn't as financially aware as he is now;
The adviser misled him;
He thought the policy was a whole of life policy and that it would pay out a lump sum 
for his children when his wife died, regardless of when this happened;
The review letters weren't sent to him for several years due a house move. Letters 
started being received again in 2013.
So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my reasoning, I understand that Mr C has raised a number of points during 
his contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point he's raised, Ive 
considered everything Mr C has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on 
the outcome of the case. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about 
what happened I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr C now considers he was led to believe that the increases 
to the premiums were only linked to inflation and not to Mrs Cs age. But he is recalling what 
happened 20 years ago and I think it is unlikely his recollection of what happened from so 
long ago is accurate. And based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not, he was 
made aware of how the premiums were calculated at the point of sale. Ill explain why.
At the point of sale Mr C was given a number of documents including a letter explaining the 
advisers recommendations, a key features document and an illustration of estimated costs 
over the term of the policy. Notably, the key features document said:
 
If you want the cover to stay level, the premium will not change just because you have got 
older until the anniversary of the contract after your 40th birthday. We then review the 
premium each year based on your age, and the premium rates which apply in that year. 
Subsequent review letters sent to Mr C over the past 20 years, repeated some of the key 
information about how premiums were calculated. In essence, each review letter said the 
cost of cover was dependent on the sum assured, which increased by the rate of inflation 
each year and was also based on the age of Mrs C. Mr C says he didnt receive some of the 
review letters up to 2013. But Im satisfied he did receive the point of sale documents which 
he hasnt disputed.
Mr C was also given an illustration at the point of sale. This gave an illustration of the 
possible impact that Mrs Cs age may have on the cost of cover. Whist the illustration shows 
the sum assured only increasing by an assumed rate of inflation of 2.5%, the premiums were 
increasing at a much greater rate than this. This was likely to be because Mrs C turned 40 
by year two of the policy start date.
So looking at all the information Mr C received at the point of sale, and subsequently via the 
review letters, I think its likely Phoenix made it reasonably clear to Mr C how the policy 
worked including how the increases to premiums would be calculated. Whilst I appreciate 
what Mr C says about not being as financially as aware then as he is now, I think the 
information he was given didnt require any particular financial and/ or specialist knowledge. 
Ill now consider suitability.
The fact find completed by the adviser recorded that there was a shortfall of life cover of 
£122,000. But the sum assured was reduced to £80,000 so that the monthly premiums could 
be set at just over £15. This was in line with what Mr C wanted to pay for the cover. The fact 
find also noted that Mr Cs main priority was to provide protection for his children in the event 
of his wifes death. This is something Mr C has confirmed in his submissions to our service. I 
can see there was no other suitable cover  whilst Mr and Mrs C did have a policy to cover 
the mortgage debt if either were to die, neither had a life policy to cover the loss of income. 
So all in all, in light of the facts as they were at the time of the advice, I consider the policy 
was a suitable recommendation to make given Mr C and his familys identified needs and 
priorities. I appreciate the policy term did go beyond the age of Mr Cs children being of an 
age where theyd be less likely to be financially dependent on their parents. But this policy 
did also offer protection to Mr C. And given it could be cancelled at any point, it gave him the 
flexibility to decide whether to continue with it depending on his particular circumstances at 
any given time. Mr C says the policy is no longer affordable. I appreciate that the premiums have gone up 
significantly since the policy started. But Mr C does have the option to reduce the cover and 
thereby reduce the level of premiums payable.  I can see that Phoenix have advised Mr C of 
the options available to him if he wants to set the cover to better suit his budget.
Mr C considers it wasnt made clear to him how long the policy would last for. On the one 
hand he says he wasnt told it would go beyond his retirement age, but on the other, he says 
he thought he was buying a whole of life policy. Im satisfied that the documentation he was 
given at the time of the advice, made it clear the policy Mr C was purchasing was a term 
assurance policy with a term set at 35 years which took it up to Mrs Cs 75th birthday. 
References to the term can be found in the key features and illustration Ive referred to 
above. So I cant fairly say Mr C was misled about the term of the policy.
I appreciate Mr C feels hes not received value for money and he is looking at other options. 
But hes had the benefit of life cover protection during the time he has paid the premiums. 
So, in the event of his wife's untimely death, Phoenix would have had to pay a lump sum to 
her estate. That money could have been used to assist Mr C's young children and prevent 
any potential financial hardship as a result of her death.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
I'm not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman