DRN-3902750
The complaint
Ms C with the assistance of her representative, complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV), has treated her unfairly when considering a claim made on her 
buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known between the parties, so Ive summarised the 
events.
In August 2019, Ms C had an arborist report produced which identified two trees 
causing damage to her property. A Norway Spruce and an Ash tree. Both of the trees 
were located on Ms Cs neighbours land with direct damage to the concrete slab 
surface on her land and to the fence, thought to be caused by the tree roots and the 
trees positioning against the fence line. 
The report recommended that testing be undertaken to identify if the damage to the 
garage was tree related subsidence. And that a trench be excavated along the 
boundary of the neighbouring property adjacent to one of the trees under 
arboriculture supervision so an assessment of the importance of the roots (identified 
as being the cause of the damage) to the trees stability could be determined. 
Damage to the fence could only be repaired if the other tree was removed entirely.  
Overall, although based on some uncertainties, the report gave a strong indication 
that the removal of both trees would provide the most appropriate solution to stop 
future damage.
In September 2019 Ms C notified LV of damage to her external garage at her 
property. In October 2019 LV attended the property and carried out an initial 
inspection. A full site investigation was made and a factual report completed in 
November 2019 and minor subsidence damage was identified to the garage as well 
as the damage to the fence and concrete slab.
The initial report produced by LVs Loss Adjuster recommended the removal of the 
Spruce tree and a reduction of the Ash tree together with a scope of works to repair 
the damage caused. 
In January 2020, LV wrote to Ms Cs neighbour setting out what it thought needed to 
happen ahead of it completing its repairs. The neighbour rejected this request at the 
start of March 2020, setting out concerns about the tree being removed and that the 
reports completed had favoured Ms C. LVs Loss Adjuster responded to the points 
made and said if the tree was not removed, roots would have to be cut so the 
damage to the garage building and paving could be repaired. 
In April 2020 LV updated Ms C on the neighbours response to the recommendation 
but explained they may be willing to have the roots cut. 
In May 2020, Ms C asked her expert to provide advice on the information that had 
been produced by LV and its Loss Adjuster. The expert said they had no doubt that 
damage had been caused by the trees to both the fence and concrete slab. He 
couldnt confirm beyond doubt, because of a lack of monitoring, there was 
subsidence with the garage. But the conditions of the soil and foundation of the slab 
meant indirect damage could occur because of the trees. He highlighted legal 
principal that the owner of the trees is liable for the damage caused by them to the 
adjoining property. If either tree was to be removed, this would need to be agreed by 
the owner. If this couldnt happen, he suggested a compromise to repair the fence 
and root cutting, as advised by an arboriculturist. He thought it was likely the root 
cutting would not render the trees liable to failing. If the trees were causing the 
subsidence damage he thought it was more likely theyd need to be removed but as 
he couldnt say this was the case, he didnt think there was enough evidence to 
suggest the trees removal was required.
In August 2020, Ms C let LV know she was unhappy that the tree removal wasnt 
being pursued.  LV explained it was suggesting proceeding with a scope of repairs in 
line with her experts report and findings. LV requested a scope of works based on 
this with one of its contractors which was submitted on 14 August 2020.
In September 2020, Ms C sent a letter to LVs Loss Adjuster office that was closed at 
the time because of lockdown restrictions. She raised a number of questions about 
the proposed works and whether it was the advice of LV to proceed with the works 
on the basis that it sufficiently addresses the threat to her property. LV responded in 
October 2020 and said if a compromise with the neighbour couldnt be reached, 
solicitors may need to be involved.
In April 2021, Ms C explained she was unhappy that the likely outcome was a 
compromise with the root cutting and no tree removal. Later that month she 
appointed a family member to act as a representative for her with the claim. There 
was ongoing correspondence with Ms Cs representative and the Loss Adjuster over 
the following months and in September 2021, the Loss Adjuster attempted to arrange 
a meeting with the neighbour and Ms Cs expert.
Ms Cs neighbour didnt agree to the meeting and wanted to provide their own expert 
opinion but wanted all of their own expert costs met by LV or Ms C. Ms Cs 
representative didnt think the request was reasonable and highlighted case law to 
support the position that the neighbour was liable for the cost of the damage caused 
by their trees. 
The Loss Adjuster offered a 50% contribution to the costs of the neighbours expert 
report as instructed by LV  this was offered with a view to move the claim forward. 
At the end of September 2021, the Loss Adjuster set out two options to progress the 
claim. To progress with the tree root removal in consultation with the neighbours 
expert before completing the repairs as set out in August 2020, or to pursue a legal 
claim against the neighbour.
In December 2021, a complaint was raised with LV about its handling of the claim. 
LV looked at the complaint and didnt think it or its Loss Adjuster had added a delay 
with the claim. It explained what had happened and that some delays had been 
added as a result of the pandemic and lockdowns. But overall, the claim hadnt been 
delayed by LV and it felt it had tried to progress with the options available.
In January 2022, the claim hadnt moved forward. There was no confirmation on what 
option was being progressed. A meeting was proposed by the Loss Adjuster to try 
and agree a way forward. No response was provided and in May 2022, Ms C brought her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt think LV had done anything wrong. She said claims of this 
nature often took time to be resolved and the Covid-19 pandemic had added to this 
with unavoidable delays. She thought the options put forward to progress the claim 
were reasonable and had been based on expert opinion. If Ms C didnt think these 
were enough, she had the option to pursue legal action. She accepted the Ms C and 
her sister who often lived with her, are vulnerable with mobility issues, but she felt LV 
had tried to progress the claim as much as possible and it couldnt undertake short 
term measures when there was a dispute about the repairs.
Ms Cs representative responded to say they disagreed. They repeated the points of 
the complaint and that they didnt think LV had acted fairly. Our investigators opinion 
remained unchanged and the complaint was passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know Ms C will be disappointed, but Ill explain 
why Ive reached this decision.
The crux of this complaint is whether LV has acted fairly when handling the claim and 
whether it should it have done something else in the circumstances.  
This claim was accepted by LV soon after Ms C notified it of the damage. It initially sought to 
have one of the trees removed as well as have the remaining tree cut back. As the trees are 
the responsibility of Ms Cs neighbour, it notified them of their intention and looked for an 
agreement before anything else could take place. I think this was a reasonable step to take 
and this happened soon after the claim was raised.
When Ms Cs neighbour didnt agree to the trees being removed, LV looked to find another 
solution which would enable it to stop and repair the damage. This involved recommending a 
compromise that Ms C was unhappy with  the trees being retained but the roots being cut. 
This was a solution that Ms Cs own expert had suggested as an option, together with the 
fence repairs being completed to effectively allow for the tree growth  saying the following 
in their report provided in May 2020:
It appears that a sensible approach would be to have the concrete surface removed with 
care taken to preserve the roots beneath. Having removed the concrete an arboriculturist (or 
one representing each property) could assess the roots exposed to determine which would 
require pruning to prevent further damage to the new hard surface to be laid. The 
significance of root(s) requiring pruning would need to be assessed and a decision 
subsequently taken as to whether the tree(s) could be retained in light of the root pruning 
required. At this stage, I consider it more likely than not that the necessary root pruning 
would not render the trees liable to failure.
So, Im satisfied this method seemed likely to succeed in achieving its aim  halting the 
subsidence damage  in line with the available expert opinion.
In August 2020, a scope of work was produced with this as the primary solution and it 
required Ms C to agree for the work to progress  with the co-operation of her neighbour.I understand Ms C had concerns about this scope of work and questioned a range of 
different future scenarios and the impact of this repair over the trees removal. But as the 
plan was in line with expert opinion, I dont think LV or its Loss Adjuster acted unfairly when 
putting this forward as a way to progress the claim. And as this plan was reliant on the 
opinion of an arborist when completing the root cutting to ensure the roots could be removed 
without risking the future stability of the tree, a future assessment may have still meant it was 
right to recommend the removal of the trees. But I think LV acted fairly when assessing the 
information provided. It made a recommendation based on this and made it clear it might 
need to be changed, dependent on the opinion of experts and the roots that needed pruning.
Ms C didnt agree with the scope and there were delays to her questions being answered as 
a result of the Loss Adjusters offices being closed and Ms C not sending her questions to 
the address she was provided with for subsidence support. But I dont think it would be fair to 
say these delays were the fault of LV. The office was closed because of the lockdown 
restrictions in place at the time and this was outside of its control.
The above option to progress the claim was repeated to Ms C in September 2021 together 
with her option to progress with legal action against her neighbour for the removal of the 
nuisance trees. At this point LV also offered to cover 50% of the neighbours expert report 
costs with a view to help progress the complaint. Ms C has questioned the logic of this as 
the expert may provide contradictory opinion on the scope of works and add further delay. 
While I understand the concern Ms C has on this point, I dont think this means LVs actions 
were not reasonable. Ultimately if the advice supported the existing advice, then its likely the 
neighbour would agree to the actions taking place. If the new opinion highlighted a reason 
why the proposed works shouldnt take place, then Id also expect LV to take this into 
account given its goal is to stop the subsidence and it wouldnt be in any parties interest to 
carry out a repair that wouldnt be effective and lasting. Furthermore, offering to pay the 
costs with a view to keep the claim progressing is reasonable and it is not an uncommon 
step for insurers to take. 
Ms Cs representative has provided case law at a number of different points which she feels 
supports the position that a court would likely take. She thinks it would determine that Ms Cs 
neighbour would be liable for the costs of any damage resulting from their trees. This is 
because of their proximity and foreseeability with the trees being on the boundary line. I 
understand why this point has been highlighted and it may well be a court would make a 
ruling in line with this if Ms C took the decision to action now or in the future. But I dont think 
it is relevant here, namely because at this point, LV has accepted the damage is covered 
under Ms Cs policy and made recommendations to repair the damage. It hasnt said it is 
unable to progress without the trees being removed and has made a recommendation for 
the repair works which I consider to be fair. 
Ms C should know that I will consider the law as part of my decision making. But I also have 
to apply what I consider to be a fair and reasonable answer in these circumstances. This is 
to say, even if a court might find differently, I would not be persuaded in these circumstances 
that LVs actions were unfair or unreasonable.
Ms Cs representative has said the garden has not been able to be enjoyed while this claim 
has not been settled and Im sorry if this is the case. With Ms C having mobility issues I 
understand why it is important that the garden doesnt make this more difficult. But I think LV 
made a fair proposal to settle the claim in August 2020 and this has been ongoing while 
Ms C disputes the proposed solution. As there was no agreement on the work, it follows that 
it wouldnt be reasonable to expect LV to make repairs until agreed.
Overall, Ive not seen anything to demonstrate that LV has added a delay to this claim being 
settled. Nor do I think it has failed to treat Ms C fairly. I understand why she has a desire to have the trees removed from her garden, but I think LV has made a fair claim decision when 
proposing the actions  in line with the available expert evidence  it has recommended to 
stop and repair the damage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman