DRN-3721952
The complaint
Mrs P complains that AWP P&C SA declined her travel insurance policy claim. My 
references to AWP include its agents. A member of Mrs Ps family represents her in this 
complaint.
What happened
Mrs P had travel insurance through her bank account, insured by AWP. She and her friend, 
who was insured separately, were due to go on holiday abroad from 15 February 2022 to 
5 March 2022.
On 14 February 2022, the day before she was due to travel, Mrs P went to a government 
approved Covid-19 testing clinic as the airline she was travelling on required her to provide a 
negative Covid-19 test. Mrs P had a supervised antigen test (a lateral flow test) and tested 
positive for Covid-19. The same day she contacted AWP about cancelling her trip and she 
says she was told she could support her claim with her positive antigen test.
When Mrs P submitted her claim for her trip cancellation AWP declined the claim. It said the 
policy terms required medical certification of her illness and as Mrs P didnt have a Covid-
19 PCR test to show her positive diagnosis there was no cover for her claim. AWP 
apologised it hadnt told Mrs P she needed to provide a PCR test when she first called about 
the cancellation.
Mrs P complained to us. She wanted AWP to pay her claim, which is for half the total holiday 
cost, and compensation for her distress and inconvenience that AWP caused by not paying 
her claim.
Our investigator said AWP unfairly declined the claim. He recommended AWP pay the claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions but it didnt need to also pay 
compensation to Mrs P.
Mrs P accepted our investigators recommendation. AWP didnt accept and wants an 
ombudsmans decision. It said the policy terms required a medical certificate from a doctor to 
confirm the policyholder wasnt fit to travel and it wouldnt accept a Covid-19 positive antigen 
test result as that was self reporting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The industry relevant rules say that insurers must deal with a claim promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt decline a claim unreasonably. I think AWP unreasonably declined Mrs Ps 
claim. Ill explain why.
The policy says AWP will pay for irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs 
(including excursions and other pre-paid charges) which Mrs P paid or contracted to pay 
together with any reasonable additional travel expenses, due Mrs Ps illness, which includes 
being diagnosed with Covid-19.
The policy also says AWP requires:
a medical certificate from a doctor to confirm that you or your travelling companion 
are not fit to travel 
And:
We may not pay your claim if you do not... provide all information and assistance 
that we may reasonably require at your expense (including, where necessary, 
medical certification).
AWP said it would have accepted a Covid-19 positive PCR test instead on the strict policy 
requirement of a doctors medical certificate. The reason it gave for not accepting a Covid-19 
positive antigen test is that would be self reporting by a policyholder. I accept there may be 
circumstances where a self-reported Covid-19 positive antigen test may not be sufficient 
evidence in support of a cancellation claim. But in this case Mrs P provided a letter from a 
government approved Covid-19 test clinic, signed by the Head of Nursing & Clinical 
Services, which confirmed Mrs P had a Covid-19 positive antigen test at the clinic on 
14 February 2022. 
So Mrs P didnt self report her Covid-19 positive test result, the test was done and result 
reported by medical services from a government approved Covid-19 test clinic, which I think 
was independent testing and reporting.
The test clinics letter to Mrs P did say she should also get a PCR test but from my own 
research Im satisfied that a test clinics false Covid-19 positive antigen test is unlikely. Also 
AWP accepts that when Mrs P first spoke to it about claiming for her trip cancellation it didnt 
tell her it required her to provide a PCR test as well as her positive antigen test, and I think it 
would have been reasonable for AWP to have told her in that call. If at that time AWP had 
told Mrs P she needed to provide a PCR test, Im satisfied its more likely than not that she 
would have been able to provide a Covid-19 positive PCR test as well as her clinically tested 
positive antigen test.
Under a strict interpretation of the policy terms a medical certificate is required to support  
Mrs Ps claim. But in these particular circumstances I think its fair and reasonable for AWP 
to accept the letter from the government approved clinic that Mrs P had a positive Covid-19 
antigen test to be sufficient medical evidence that she was Covid-19 positive. The fair and 
reasonable outcome is for AWP to pay Mrs Ps claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
and conditions plus interest as Ive detailed below.
Mrs P initially asked AWP to also pay her compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
She accepted our investigators recommendation that AWP didnt need to pay compensation 
and for the avoidance of doubt I dont think theres any basis on which I could reasonably 
say AWP had to also pay compensation.
Putting things right
AWP must pay Mrs Ps claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions plus 
interest as Ive detailed below. My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to pay Mrs Ps claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of the 
claim to the date of settlement.
*If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs P a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman