DRN-3119142
The complaint
Mr D complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (R&SA) unfairly declined his claim 
on his pet insurance policy. 
Any reference to R&SA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr D had a pet insurance policy which started in 2014. He says he renewed this every year. 
R&SA says on 11 July 2017, Mr D got in touch with its phone team as his policy was up for 
renewal and he noticed he could get it cheaper online. It says Mr D cancelled the policy 
during that phone call and took out a new policy online which started on 31 July 2017. Mr D 
doesnt agree this happened. He says he did call to query why the policy was cheaper online 
but chose to continue with his existing policy anyway.
Around February 2021, Mr D made a claim on the policy as his dog needed treatment for 
two different medical conditions. R&SA declined the claim as it said the conditions claimed 
for were pre-existing medical conditions under the terms of the policy. It highlighted that the 
medical notes showed one condition was first identified in April 2015 and the other on 
19 July 2017. So it said Mr Ds dog had both before the start date of his policy on 
31 July 2017. 
Mr D didnt accept what R&SA had said. He pointed out that R&SA didnt have a recording of 
the conversation which took place over the phone. And he didnt think it had enough 
evidence to say he took a new policy out online. 
As R&SA continued to decline the claim, Mr D asked our service to look into things. R&SA 
gave us its internal screenshots, policy documentation and the notice it says it sent to Mr D 
when the policy was cancelled. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he thought it 
was more likely Mr D did cancel his existing policy and start a new one  and R&SA had 
acted in line with its terms and conditions by declining the claim. As Mr D didnt agree with 
our investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, I know Mr D will be very disappointed. 
Was the insurance policy renewed?
R&SA hasnt been able to give us a recording of the call that it says took place with Mr D in 
July 2017 and considering the amount of time thats passed, I dont think thats unreasonable 
or unusual. But my role is to determine what I think most likely happened based on the 
evidence I do have. And in this case, I think its more likely Mr D did cancel his existing 
policy and take out a new one. Ill explain why. 
Theres no dispute a call took place between Mr D and R&SA. And it seems both parties 
agree the reason he called was because he noticed it would be cheaper if he took out a new 
policy online. R&SA has given us a copy of a letter it says it sent following the phone call. 
The letter is dated the same date as the phone call and confirmed the policy had been 
cancelled as requested by Mr D. Im satisfied this letter was generated because the policy 
had been cancelled during the phone call. And had Mr D not cancelled it as the letter said, I 
think its reasonable to expect he wouldve questioned this. 
Mr D has said he didnt receive the cancellation letter. But I can see it was sent to the same 
address he gave our service and as set out on his claim form. So Im satisfied it was sent to 
his correct address and I dont think R&SA is responsible for him not receiving it. 
R&SA says Mr D took out a new policy online. Its no longer got evidence of his application 
form but its given us its internal screenshots showing how the policy was taken out. And in 
this case, under Agent Name, it shows the name of a comparison website. Ive thought 
about this carefully together with the information both parties have given our service about 
Mr D finding a policy online for cheaper. And overall, Im persuaded its more likely Mr D did 
apply for a new policy via a comparison website in order to get a cheaper deal. As a result, 
Im satisfied he took out a new policy at the end of July 2017 rather than renewing his 
existing one. 
Was the claim fairly declined?
R&SA has given us the policy terms it says wouldve applied at the time Mr D made a claim 
on the policy. In summary the terms say it wont pay claims for health issues, and illnesses 
which the policyholder or their vet was aware of before the policy was taken out. And it 
describes them as pre-existing conditions. Having looked at the clinical notes and claim 
form, I can see the vet said Mr Ds dog had a lump on his back which was growing and had 
been there for some time on 19 July 2017. And they noted a murmur in April 2015. As I think 
its more likely the policy Mr D had at the time of the claim started on 31 July 2017, Im 
satisfied the claim he made was for pre-existing conditions under the terms of the policy. So 
overall, I dont agree R&SA has declined his claim unfairly. 
My final decision
Its my decision that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 3 
March 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman