DRN-1865478
The complaint
Mr S has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr S took out the card and PPI in May 1996 by filling in an application form in a shop.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in April 2020 in which I explained why I was considering not 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Ms S provided some additional comments 
that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Following my provisional decision, Mr S says his recollection is that he was told his 
application for the card was more likely to be approved if he agreed to take PPI.
Mr S originally told us that he couldnt remember how the PPI had been sold to him. AXA 
has provided a copy of the application form that Mr S completed. Looking at it, there is a 
separate section for PPI and within that section there is a box that needed to be ticked to 
request the policy. The box has been ticked on Mr Ss form. Mr S has been provided with a 
copy of this form.
I consider that Mr S would have known from the layout and wording of the form that he had a 
choice about taking out the PPI. The sale was a long time ago and so it isnt surprising that 
Mr S had said that he couldnt remember the sale. From the evidence Ive seen, I think that 
Mr S probably decided to buy the policy, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so. 
AXA didnt advise Mr S to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. But 
it did need to provide him with enough information for him to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the PPI was right for him.
Mr S says his employer would have given him six months full pay if hed been off sick. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr S 
would have received full pay for. Mr S says that he had a reasonable amount of savings. It 
was after the adjudicator had given his opinion on the case that Mr S clarified that these were earmarked to pay for a wedding and honeymoon, so that was extra information that I 
also took into consideration. Having the policy would have allowed Mr S to retain his savings 
or use them for their original purpose. Overall, I consider that Mr S had a need for the policy 
and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
I think that Mr S would have known something about the policy  that it would cover his store 
card repayments if he were unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think hed have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that Mr S had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he isnt any worse off 
as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing that AXA needs to do 
to put things right.
Mr S has said that AXA has upheld his complaint about PPI he had on another store card 
and, as the cards were held at the same time, he cant understand how they can uphold one 
complaint and not the other. I havent looked at the circumstances of that other sale and so I 
dont know why AXA decided to uphold it. I can only say that, based on the evidence Ive 
seen about this case, I do not consider that the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive thought very carefully about the additional points that Mr S has made, but they have not 
persuaded me to change the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman