DRN-2594538
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994. Miss R says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Miss Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Rs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Rs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Miss R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because AXA sent in a copy of Miss Rs store card application, and 
although it isnt entirely legible I can see that she had the option of ticking a yes or no 
box to say whether she wanted PPI. So I think she was given a choice about it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss R, so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so 
she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. Although Miss R says 
she had health problems when the PPI was taken out, I dont think better information 
about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused her to change her mind 
about taking out the policy. I say this because, of the two issues she mentioned, one 
occurred some time before the sale, and Miss R hasnt said that it caused her ongoing 
problems. The timing of the second issue is unclear  it may not have been before the 
sale, but in any case Miss R said she didnt need medical treatment at the time, so I 
dont think its likely Miss R wouldve considered it the main reason she mightve needed 
to claim. Ive also kept in mind that Miss R said she had no sick pay entitlement from her 
employer, and no savings to fall back on if shed been unable to work. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable  so it seems as though it would have been useful for her if 
something had gone wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss R would have declined the 
cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Rs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
So I think she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss R would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the policy couldve provided 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman