DRN-3462266
The complaint
Ms K complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday) lent her money on a high cost 
loan which she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Ms K was provided with a loan for £2,000 on 2 September 2015, repayable at the rate of 
about £183 a month over 24 months. She had problems repaying the loan and in February 
2016 consulted a debt advice charity. She couldnt afford after that to pay more than a 
nominal payment each month. By June 2020 £2,834 still remained outstanding and 
Everyday passed the loan amount onto a third party to seek recovery. All recovery has been 
put on hold whist Ms K pursues her complaint.
Ms K complained that the loan was unaffordable to her. She is a single parent and at the 
time had four children of 17 and under and another child and responsibility for a grandchild. 
She believed that Everyday hadnt given her sufficient information about the loan and carried 
out inadequate affordability checks.
Everyday said it carried out its normal verification checks, which included obtaining a credit 
report, verifying Ms Ks income and obtaining two months payslips and bank statements. It 
calculated her outgoings using ONS (Office for National Statistics) data allowing 35% of her 
monthly income plus £80 for each child. It used her lowest net figure for her pay and added 
child benefits and tax credits. It said that she spent around £2,225 on her monthly outgoings 
and credit commitments. It believed she had an adequate disposable income to afford the 
loan repayments.
Our adjudicator said that by assessing Ms Ks normal income, and her outgoings from her 
bank statements, she would have been left with a negative income so wouldnt have been 
able to afford the loan instalments. He also pointed out that she had several loans/accounts 
in default and a recent county court judgement (CCJ).
Everyday hasnt responded to the adjudicators view, so the matter has been passed to me 
for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms K 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms K would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Ks ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms K undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms K. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Considering her income, the loan would have represented a considerable commitment from 
Ms K, so I think Everyday should have carried out a thorough assessment of her 
circumstances.
From its records Ive noted that Everyday considered Ms K to be a risk and had initially 
refused her a loan. However it appears that it was persuaded that her debts were historical 
and she was making efforts to make her situation better.
The credit report shows that Ms K had two loans and two credit cards in default. The loans 
were with a debt collector. The total debt just for these items was over £6,000. Although the 
defaults were several years old the balances were nevertheless still active. I note Everyday 
allowed a 3% payment each month for each debt. Ms K also had a recent (June 2014) CCJ 
for £2,600 against her. Again, Everyday allowed a 3% payment for this, though Ive seen no 
indication that the creditor was prepared to accept this. I think bearing in mind Ms K hadnt 
been able to pay these debts, that was an indication that she was likely to struggle with more 
credit.Everyday assessed Ms Ks monthly income at £2,506, including child benefit and tax credits. 
Based on the lower of her two payslips, the number of children under 16 and her tax credits 
(which are on the file in a statement), I think this figure was more like £2,365. And whilst I 
note Everydays use of statistics, where the customers bank statements are at hand I think it 
more realistic to get the outgoings from the statements. Our adjudicator did estimate that 
Ms K had a negative income left of over £1,000 each month. As this figure appears to 
include a one-off payment towards a loan for £1,121, I dont think she had a negative income 
left. But using the figures from her bank statements I estimate that she was spending around 
£2,320 a month including her credit commitments, just allowing for minimum payments for 
her defaulted debts, CCJ and credit cards. This left her with very little disposable income 
each month.
Everyday says the loan was for debt consolidation, and I note that two loans were paid off by 
Everyday. but the instalments for those loans (according to the credit report) totalled £153, 
against the new loan instalment of £183. Theres no indication that any other loans were to 
be paid off so I cant say that she was able to free up any more money.
Whilst Ms Ks total loan and credit card minimum payments amounted to something like 21% 
of her income, I nevertheless think that the fact of all her defaults, CCJ and her high 
outgoings meant that this loan was likely to be unaffordable. Indeed I note that she became 
unable to repay the loan within about five months of taking it out.
So, whilst I think that Everyday carried out proportionate checks, those checks should have 
revealed that she would have been unlikely to be able to afford the loan instalments. So, I 
dont think Everyday made a fair lending decision 
Putting things right
Ms K has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest 
and charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Ms K as payments towards the capital amount of £2,000.
If Ms K has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 
8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Ms K.
If Everyday has sold the outstanding debt to a third-party it should do what it can 
to buy it back - if it cant, it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the 
redress and it then it needs to work with the third-party to bring about the steps 
above.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Ms Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should giveMs K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman