DRN-2933525
The complaint
Miss E complains about how Sainsburys Bank Plc has dealt with a missed payment.
What happened
Miss E says she received a letter from Sainsburys telling her she owed it over £200. She 
says she was unaware of the debt as she had stopped using the account some two years 
ago. Miss E says she looked into the debt and realised it was for a payment of about £62 
made in September 2019 but says Sainsburys didnt tell her about the balance and ought to 
have noticed that in the past she always repaid her credit card spending. She says 
Sainsburys actions in adding interest and charges have caused her stress and would like it 
to refund them.
Sainsburys says it hasnt made a mistake and has applied interest and charges in line with 
account terms and conditions. It says it e-mailed Miss E monthly with her credit card 
statement in which it made clear there was an outstanding balance and wrote to her when 
the arrears reached a certain level.
Miss E brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Sainsburys told Miss E that her statement information would be e-mailed rather than 
posted and that Miss E made the payment for £62 in September 2019. The investigator 
didnt think Sainsburys had made a mistake by applying the charges and interest.
Miss E doesnt accept that view but accepts she has found Sainsburys e-mails in her junk 
folder. She doesnt accept receiving Sainsburys letter about paperless statements and says 
she has been a loyal customer for many years.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Miss Es account terms and conditions which I think she would 
have agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
interest and charges will be made if an account balance isnt repaid or if a minimum payment 
isnt made. Im satisfied that Miss E made a payment in September 2019 and that there is no 
dispute about that. So, I dont think Sainsburys made a mistake or acted unfairly by charging 
Miss E interest and late payment charges when she didnt make required payments which 
she was required to do in line with those terms and conditions.
I appreciate Miss E says she was unaware of the payment and didnt realise the account 
statements were received in her e-mail junk folder. But I cant fairly hold Sainsburys 
responsible for that and I think this was Miss Es account and it was her responsibility to 
manage it. I also think Miss E ought reasonably to have been aware of the payment in 
September 2019 and how it was made.
I have looked at Sainsburys records and am satisfied that it sent monthly e-mails about the 
account statement and was reasonably entitled to assume Miss E received and read them. I 
dont think Sainsburys is required to write to customers or could know what had happened 
as Miss E suggests. I dont think it matters if Miss E was a loyal Sainsburys customer and 
think its up to it to decide if it wishes to exercise any discretion on these sorts of matters.
Overall, I find this was Miss Es account and that a payment was made by her which led to 
the interest and charges. Im satisfied Sainsburys hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly 
and so cant fairly order it to refund any of the interest or charges. And I cant fairly hold 
Sainsburys responsible for Miss E not receiving a letter about statements being paperless.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman