DRN-2029211
The complaint
Mr M complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited charged him too much excess 
mileage charges at the end of his agreement.
What happened
Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with BMWFS. He says 
that during his discussions with the dealership, it was agreed that the excess mileage charge 
in the agreement would be reduced from 12p per mile to 7p per mile. He says he entered 
into the agreement on this basis.
When Mr M received a copy of the finance agreement to sign, he noticed that it refereed to a 
rate of 12p per mile. He says he amended this himself by crossing out 12p and substituting 
7p before signing and returning the agreement.
When the agreement ended, BMWFS calculated the excess mileage using a rate of 12p per 
mile.
Mr M is unhappy that BMWFS hasnt honoured the agreement to charge excess mileage at 
7p per mile. Hes also unhappy because BMWFS sent a copy of the contract with his 
signature on which he says isnt the one he signed.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt any evidence that 
BMWFS had agreed to reduce the excess mileage charge to 7p per mile and said that Mr 
Ms amendment to the contract wasnt legally binding because BMWFS hadnt authorised 
the reduced rate of excess mileage.
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed made reference to the amendment hed made in an email 
which he sent to BMWFS at the same time as returning the signed agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered whether the finance agreement was mis-sold to Mr M. In order to find 
that theres been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the supplying dealer 
made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr M to enter into the agreement.
Mr M has said that the dealer agreed to reduce the excess mileage charge to 7p per mile. 
Theres no documentary evidence of these discussions so I cant be certain of exactly what 
was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the contemporaneous evidence to 
decide whats most likely to have happened. Mr M refers to an agreement to reduce the 
excess mileage charges in an email which he sent to BMWFS when he returned the signed 
agreement. But the agreement itself clearly refers to a rate of 12p per mile. 
I dont doubt that Mr M had discussions with the dealer about excess mileage charges 
generally. But on balance, I dont think theres enough evidence here to persuade me that 
the dealership told Mr M that a reduced rate of excess mileage would apply. Its more likely 
that theres been a misunderstanding. So, I cant say that theres been a misrepresentation, 
Even if Im wrong about that, and the dealership did tell Mr M that a reduced rate of excess 
mileage would apply, this doesnt change my view on misrepresentation, because Im not 
persuaded that the excess mileage rate was the sole or main reasons why Mr M entered into 
the agreement.
Ive also considered whether Mr Ms amendment to the agreement sent to him by BMWFS is 
legally binding. Based on general contractual principles, I dont think it is. His is because a 
manuscript amendment to a contact needs to be initialled by both parties in order to 
incorporate the amendment into the contract. Theres no evidence to suggest that BMWFS 
agreed to the amendment by initialling the agreement or confirming in some other way that it 
was agreed. Therefore, the amendment isnt legally binding on BMWFS.
Mr M has said that he gave BMWFS reasonable opportunity to dispute the amendment hed 
made. But this doesnt change my view on whether the amendment is legally binding on 
BMWFS, because one party to a contract cannot be deemed to have accepted an 
amendment by silence.
Here, theres no evidence at all to suggest that BMWFS agreed to or accepted the 
amendment made by Mr M. So, I cant say BMWFS is legally bound by the amendment or 
obliged to charge the lower rate of excess mileage.
Mr M has raised a further complaint about the signature page of the agreement. This didnt 
form part of his original complaint so BMWFS hasnt had the opportunity to comment on this 
aspect. That said, it seems practicable for me to deal with this as part of the overall 
complaint. As I understand it, Mr M says that BMWFS have used the signature page from 
the agreement he signed and placed it together with an (unamended) page of the agreement 
to produce a new agreement which is in some way void. Ive taken Mr Ms comments on this 
into account but it doesnt change my view overall, which is that in signing the agreement 
(and irrespective of his manuscript amendment) Mr M has agreed to the terms and 
conditions set out in the (unamended) agreement. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman