DRN-2980516
The complaint
 Mr K is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services Limited (MBFS) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 30 September 2019, Mr K was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase 
agreement with MBFS. He paid a deposit of £5,589.50 and the agreement was for 
£30,985.50 over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £400 and a final optional 
payment of £17,255 if Mr K wanted to keep the car. 
Mr K said that he started to hear a rattle coming from the offside front pillar of the car in 
February 2020. And he says he told MBFS about this on 27 July 2020 (through the in-car 
service help button which connected him with MBFSs help centre). He said MBFS told him 
to let the service centre know about this when he took the car in for a service in September 
2020. Which he did. And, in November 2020, the sunroof guiderail was replaced under 
warranty. But Mr K said this didnt fix the problem. So he complained to MBFS.
MBFS arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. And the engineer said the 
previous attempt to fix the car had failed. But the engineer also said that the fault was as a 
result of wear and tear, and wouldnt have been present when the car was supplied to Mr K. 
As a result, MBFS didnt think they needed to do anything more.
 Mr K wasnt happy with MBFSs response, and he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the car had travelled less than 9,000 miles when the independent 
engineer inspected it and found that the repair had failed. And he didnt think that any 
reasonable person would expect a fault of this nature to occur after such a short amount of 
time and mileage. So, while the independent engineer said the fault wasnt present when the 
car was supplied to Mr K, the investigator didnt think the car was sufficiently durable. And 
this made the car not of a satisfactory quality when supplied.
The investigator said that, while the engineer had said the car should be repaired under 
warranty, an attempt at repair had already failed. And Mr K didnt want to continue with more 
repairs. So he thought MBFS should allow Mr K to reject the car. And he said that MBFS 
should collect the car and unwind the agreement, removing any adverse information from Mr 
Ks credit file. 
He also said they should refund 10% of the payments Mr K made from July 2020 (when he 
told MBFS about the fault) to compensate him for the impaired use of the car; refund the 
deposit Mr K paid; pay statutory interest on these refunds; and pay Mr K an additional £150 
for the stress and inconvenience hed been caused.
MBFS didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the independent engineer said the 
fault wasnt present when the car was supplied, and Mr K delaying raising the matter with 
them mayve caused further detriment to the vehicle [which is] against the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. They also said that, with no evidence that a component had 
failed prematurely, then it couldnt be said that the car wasnt durable when supplied.
MBFS asked for proof of when the fault first occurred, and they thought wear and tear 
occurs through use and the degree of wear depends on a number of factors such as how its 
used. It is therefore impossible to determine a lifespan of a component based on whether it 
would be durable or not.
Because MBFS didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr K was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, MBFS 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MBFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, its for Mr K to show that it was present when the car was supplied. So, if 
I thought the car was faulty when Mr K took possession of it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask MBFS to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of a text conversation between Mr K and the service centre, where Mr K 
asked if the rattling noise had been fixed. In reply, on 16 November 2020, the service centre 
said the fault has been traced to the runroof [sic]. This is quite a complicated repair.
The independent engineers report is dated 27 April 2021, at which point the car had done 
8,979 miles. Assuming that Mr K drove a similar number of miles each month, this would 
mean that the car had done around 2,600 miles when he said the rattle first appeared, 
around 5,300 miles when he said he first reported it to MBFS, and around 6,800 miles when 
the repair was first attempted.The independent engineer road tested the car and said at speeds of between 20-30 mph 
there was a noticeable resonance through the vehicle. The vehicles interior panels were 
rattling. This became irritating throughout the road test.  The engineer said this needed 
further investigation and recommended this should be done under warranty. However, the 
engineer also said, the current faults would not have been present or developing at finance 
inception; the faults have occurred due to general in service wear and deterioration since 
finance inception; and the previous repair attempts would be considered unsuccessful.
Im in agreement with MBFS that the independent engineer is the expert in this situation and 
their opinion shouldnt be discarded. Based on this report, Im satisfied that there is a fault 
with the car, which is causing an irritating noise when the car is driven; that this is as a result 
of wear and tear that occurred after the car was supplied to Mr K; and that a previous 
attempt to fix this fault has failed.
When Mr K was supplied with the car it was brand new. So Id expect it to be free from all 
defects and for it to be safe and durable. And I think any reasonable person would expect 
the same. And I have to consider the price Mr K paid for the car  £36,575. The more 
expensive the car, the fewer minor issues Id expect to be occur in the first few years.
I dont think any reasonable person would expect the car to develop an irritating rattle, 
caused by wear and tear of components, after less than 9,000 miles (and possibly after less 
than 3,000 miles). And I dont think that a sunroof rail is a part any reasonable person would 
expect to have significant wear and tear in less than a year  its not a mechanical part that 
gets used every minute of every journey.
So, while the independent engineer said the fault wasnt present or developing at the point of 
supply, I actually think this is a durability issue  the components on the car didnt last as 
long would reasonably be expected. And this makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
Where the goods are of an unsatisfactory quality, the CRA allows a single attempt at repair. 
This took place in November 2020 and was unsuccessful. Mr K doesnt want to give MBFS 
the opportunity to attempt further repairs, and the CRA doesnt require him to. So, under 
section 24(5) of the CRA, Im satisfied that Mr K has the right to reject the car. And MBFS 
should allow this rejection and fairly compensate Mr K for what happened.
Putting things right
 Mr K was supplied with the car on 30 September 2019, and hes had use of it from that date, 
so I think its fair Mr K should pay for this usage. But the independent engineer has said the 
rattle was irritating, and Im satisfied this would impair Mr Ks enjoyment of the car. So I also 
think its fair that MBFS refund a proportion of the payments Mr K made to compensate him 
for this impaired enjoyment.
The investigator recommended a 10% refund of all payments made from July 2020  when 
Mr K told MBFS about the rattle. While Mr K says the rattle started in February 2020, hes 
not provided anything to show me this was the case. Given this, I think that the investigators 
recommendation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
So, MBFS should now arrange to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
arrange to collect the car, at no cost to Mr K;
remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Ks credit file;refund 10% of the payments Mr K has paid from July 2020 to the date the agreement 
is ended, and the car collected;
refund the £5,589.50 deposit Mr K paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the payment and deposit refunds, calculated from 
the date Mr K made the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr K an additional £150 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MBFS to take off tax from this interest. MBFS must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman