DRN-1830181
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that TSB Bank plc didn't proceed with her chargeback.
What happened
Miss B bought two tickets in August 2019 from a company but didn't receive them. She 
asked TSB to raise a chargeback for the cost of over £800 which it did. Miss B says she 
didn't receive a letter from TSB in November 2019 asking her for further information. And 
TSB then debited the money it had previously credited to her account. She would like her 
money back.
TSB says it raised the chargeback but the company that sold Miss B the tickets provided 
further information. It says it wrote to Miss B about that and asked her to respond. But she 
didn't and by the time Miss B did speak to it, the time limits had passed for continuing with 
the chargeback. TSB says it didn't make a mistake by debiting the money.
Miss B brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the letter was correctly addressed, and TSB wasn't responsible for the safe delivery 
of mail.
Miss B doesn't accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint.
The chargeback rules are set, not by as in this case, TSB but by the card providers. A 
chargeback is not a right and there is no guarantee of success. I can see that TSB did raise 
a chargeback here and credited Miss B's account while the chargeback process was 
ongoing. I can also see that the company that sold the tickets defended the claim and so 
TSB asked Miss B for her comments in order to continue with the chargeback.
I'm satisfied that the letter TSB sent Miss B was correctly addressed and there is no record 
of any returned mail. I appreciate Miss B says she didn't receive that letter. But as TSB isn't 
responsible for the safe delivery of mail, then I can't fairly hold it responsible for Miss B not 
receiving that letter. And, as Miss B didn't make contact with TSB until after the chargeback 
time limits had passed, I don't think TSB made a mistake or acted unfairly by, telling Miss B 
that under the chargeback rules it couldn't continue with the chargeback, and by re-debiting 
the money.
I make clear to Miss B that even if she had received TSB's letter that there would not have 
been any guarantee her chargeback would have succeeded in any event.
I appreciate that Miss B will be disappointed by my decision and of course she is free to consider alternative methods of getting her money back
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2020.
 
 
 
 
 
 
David Singh
Ombudsman