DRN-4439239
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the settlement paid by National Deposit Friendly Society Limited
(National Friendly) under her dental claim.
What happened
Mrs J holds a healthcare deposit account plan with National Friendly. She made a claim for
dental treatment totalling £403.80. National Friendly paid £303.80 but said it wouldnt cover
the costs for the x-ray, hygienist or scan. Unhappy with this, Mrs J brought a complaint to
this Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought National Friendlys
claims decision had been in line with the policy terms.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 October 2023. Heres what I said:
Mrs J told National Friendly she was claiming £403.80 for her dental treatment. She 
included a statement of account from her dentist totalling £353.70, with a breakdown of the 
various costs. She also included a separate receipt for a 3D scan costing £100.
National Friendly told Mrs J it had declined to pay for the cost of the x-ray, hygienist and
scan.
Based on Mrs Js explanation, I understand the initial x-ray was included in the cost of the
examination (this was covered by National Friendly). However, the dentists statement of
account doesnt make this very clear, and so I can see why National Friendly thought the
initial x-ray and hygienist were included under one item.
National Friendly is of the view that x-rays wouldnt be covered by the policy (though see my
below comments on this). As National Friendly thought the initial x-ray was a separate cost
to the initial check-up, that is why it said it wasnt covered. I think this is where some of the
confusion lay.
Mrs J says she wasnt claiming for the hygienist cost of £49.90. But she didnt make this
clear to National Friendly. And the hygienist amount was on the statement of account, so I
assume thats why National Friendly also said this wasnt covered.
National Friendly covered everything that Mrs J was claiming for, apart from the 3D scan
costing £100 (which is considered an x-ray). Ive therefore considered whether this was
reasonable.
The policy sets out whats covered under the dental cover. That is:  fillings; extractions;
bridges; dentures; crowns; inlays; and any other dental treatment that is not cosmetic.
Ive thought about whether the x-ray would be considered any other dental treatment that is
not cosmetic.
The policy defines treatment as:
Surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) to diagnose, relieve or cure a
disease, illness or injury.
The policy defines diagnostic tests as:
Any investigation, such as a blood test or x-ray, which might find or help to find the cause of
your symptoms.
Mrs J didnt have the 3D scan for cosmetic reasons, it was arranged by the specialist before
her wisdom tooth was extracted (apparently for higher resolution images than the normal x-
ray which had already been done). Based on the policy terms, Im satisfied this would be
considered dental treatment that wasnt cosmetic, and was therefore covered under the
policy.
I therefore intend to require National Friendly to pay the additional £100, plus interest.
I asked both parties if they wanted to provide any further comments before I made a final 
decision.
Mrs J responded and confirmed her scan was a necessary part of the extraction process. 
She also thought the confusion around the hygienist cost could have been cleared up at an 
early stage if she had been allowed to discuss the matter with the person who looked into 
her complaint.
National Friendly responded to say it had issued an addendum to the policy in 2011 which 
confirmed that only eight types of treatment would be covered. And that Mrs J was reminded 
of this in 2020, and in March 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
National Friendly has explained to this Service that it issued an addendum to the policy in 
2011. I havent seen a full copy of the addendum, but the extract provided by National 
Friendly says:
Dental Cover: Included
Fillings
Extractions
Bridges
Dentures
Crowns
Inlays
Dental Implants
Root canal treatment
Dental Cover: Excluded
Check-ups (unless they are part of the same bill as other covered treatments)
Any treatment not listed under included above, including, but not limited to, cosmetic 
dental treatments, scale and polish (or other cleaning of teeth and gums), braces and 
bite guards.Dental surgery under general anaesthetic will be paid under Medical Cover under the 
terms and conditions described in that section.
National Friendly says it has been managing dental claims since 2011 based on the terms 
contained in the addendum, and that the addendum and the policy document work together 
to provide the overall terms and conditions.
I see that the latest policy document (titled Your policy explained) provided to Mrs J is dated 
March 2015. This was after the addendum was issued in 2011. Yet the policy document 
continued to say that any other dental treatment that is not cosmetic is covered. The policy 
says This is your complete guide to the Healthcare Deposit Account from National Friendly. 
Along with your application, it forms the legally binding terms and conditions of your policy.  
It doesnt say that it should be read in conjunction with an addendum issued in 2011.
Whilst I can appreciate an insurer may want to issue an addendum to an existing policy 
document, its not reasonable to expect the terms in that addendum to apply to future policy 
documents that are issued. If National Friendly wanted to assess claims based on the terms 
in the addendum rather than the new policy document, it should have updated the new 
policy document to reflect those terms. Ive noted that National Friendly says the 2015 policy 
document was only issued to reflect its new address details, but it remains the case that its 
the latest policy terms and would therefore apply to any claims after this. 
National Friendly says the policy was never designed to cover all dental treatment, only the 
eight treatments listed in the addendum. However, I see that in National Friendlys final 
response letter to Mrs J, it quoted the policy document terms rather than the different 
addendum terms. And when our investigator asked National Friendly about the relevant term 
in the policy document (that says it covers any other dental treatment that is not cosmetic 
treatment), National Friendlys response was that an x-ray is not deemed as treatment. It 
didnt mention anything about there being different terms in an addendum. So it seems 
National Friendly itself isnt clear over what terms apply to claims. 
I see that National Friendly told Mrs J in October 2020 (after she made a previous claim) that 
there had been an addendum issued in 2011 and it was assessing claims based on this. 
This was two years before the claim subject to this complaint. I wouldnt expect Mrs J to 
remember which policy terms applied to her claim when National Friendly was apparently 
confused about this. 
Mrs J spoke with National Friendly in March 2022 to check which booklets were relevant, 
and was told the Your policy explained document and addendum. But the information in 
those documents about what was covered wasnt clear. It seems to me its reasonable to 
expect the latest policy document to be correct. As National Friendly drafted the policy 
terms, I find these should be interpreted in Mrs Js favour. Therefore, as Mrs Js x-ray wasnt 
needed for cosmetic reasons, I remain satisfied that National Friendly should reimburse her 
the £100. 
Mrs J says the confusion around the hygienist cost could have been cleared up if National 
Friendly had spoken with her about the matter. I agree that it likely could have been. 
Nonetheless, Ive explained in my provisional decision that I thought National Friendly had 
said this wasnt covered because it was included in the statement of account, and Mrs J 
didnt specifically say she wasnt claiming for it.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require National Deposit Friendly Society 
Limited to reimburse Mrs J £100. Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date National Friendly paid the claim to the date of settlement.
* If National Friendly considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs J how much its taken off. It should also give
Mrs J a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman