DRN-2892510
The complaint
Mrs O complains about Zenith Insurance plcs handling of a claim under her mobile phone 
insurance.
What happened
Mrs O has at times been represented by a family member in making this complaint. For the 
sake of brevity, Ill refer below to what Mrs O has told us, even when the information may 
have come via her representative.
Mrs O had a mobile phone insurance policy which is underwritten by Zenith. She made a 
claim after she experienced an issue with the headphone port on her phone.
In line with the terms of the policy, Mrs O sent the phone to Zeniths nominated repair centre. 
The policy says Zenith will attempt to repair the phone. Where they cant do that, theyll 
replace it with a phone of the same specification. And if they cant do that, theyll offer a cash 
settlement.
The phone was lost in the post when the repair centre tried to return it to Mrs O. So, Zeniths 
repair centre sent her a replacement refurbished phone of the same specification.
Mrs O says the package containing the replacement phone was handed to her by a 
neighbour, who said hed opened it by mistake thinking it was for him. And the phone was 
damaged.
Mrs O complained to Zenith. She was unhappy that the original phone had been lost. And 
she thought it took too long for Zenith to send her a replacement  it was just over a month 
after the original phone had been dispatched that Zenith sent the replacement.
Mrs O was disappointed theyd sent her a second-hand refurbished phone  she thought she 
should get a new one. And she was unhappy the phone had been left with a neighbour and 
arrived  with her  in a damaged state. She was also unhappy that Zenith hadnt then 
allowed her to return the damaged phone.
When Zenith didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint - and referred her to the courier company 
whod delivered the phone - she brought her complaint to us.
She wants Zenith to take the damaged phone back. She wants them to reimburse her for the 
new phone shes had to buy and for the network costs she incurred whilst she was without a 
phone. She also wants compensation for the time shes spent in discussion with Zenith and 
then following things up with the courier, and for her distress and inconvenience. She says 
she was unable to contact her family and missed medical appointments due to being without 
a phone.
Our investigator looked into it. She didnt think Zenith could be blamed for the delays in their 
decision to send a replacement phone or were responsible for Mrs Os network costs during 
that time. Nor did she think Zenith should be held responsible for the damage to the 
replacement phone.
But she thought it was wrong for Zenith to try to shift responsibility for the delivery entirely on 
to the courier, who they had appointed to carry out that service for them. And she thought 
there was no proof the package had been delivered correctly. So, she said Zenith should 
pay Mrs O £100 for the incorrect delivery and for her distress and inconvenience.
Mrs O disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She thought the 
proposed compensation wasnt enough for her distress and inconvenience. In her response 
to our investigators view, she said she had been left without a fully working, undamaged 
phone for the 12 months since she sent her original phone in for repair. And shed had to 
invest a lot of time chasing Zenith  and their courier.
Zenith also disagreed with our investigators view. They say the phone left their repair centre 
in good order and they shouldnt be held responsible if the courier chose to leave the phone 
with a neighbour. They also thought there was a degree of inconsistency in our investigator 
saying they werent responsible for the delays or the damage to the phone, but still asking 
them to pay compensation to Mrs O.
Because I disagreed with our investigator and didnt think the complaint should be upheld, I 
issued a provisional decision. This allowed both Mrs O and Zenith an opportunity to provide 
further evidence or information and/or to comment on my thinking before I make my final 
decision on this complaint, which is this services last word on the matter. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that we would hold Zenith responsible for any mistakes their 
courier made. They chose the courier, who were providing a service for Zenith, not 
for Mrs O.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is clear that in circumstances like these, its the 
responsibility of the business sending the goods to ensure that they arrive in good 
order with their customer - or in a nominated safe place or with a nominated 
neighbour.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, not a court of law, so its not for me to 
pronounce on matters of law  I have to decide what I think is fair in all the 
circumstances of this particular case. But I do have to take the relevant legislation 
into account.
Im aware Zeniths repair centre invites customers in these circumstances to agree to 
terms and conditions which say the customer must take responsibility for any 
damage to the goods after delivery  including delivery to a neighbour.
Its for them to determine how this sits with the legislation. But I dont think its fair in 
this particular case to rely on those terms. By the time Mrs O was presented with 
them, she had no real choice  she had to agree, or the replacement phone 
presumably wouldnt get sent. And she wasnt asked to agree those terms before 
buying her mobile insurance policy.In summary, Mrs O didnt ask Zenith to deliver her replacement phone to a neighbour 
if she wasnt in. She didnt nominate a safe place or a neighbour to take delivery. So, 
in my view, Zenith were responsible for delivering the replacement phone to her in 
good order.
Having clarified that, let me go back to the start of these events. The original phone  
duly repaired  was dispatched back to Mrs O by Zeniths repair centre. And was lost 
in the post somewhere along the way.
Thats unfortunate, but Zenith took responsibility and issued a replacement 
refurbished phone as soon as the courier concluded  after investigation  that the 
package was in fact lost.
It took about a month for that to happen, but I can see that Zenith were in touch with 
the courier throughout and were asking that the investigation proceed as quickly as 
possible. I know Zenith also asked Mrs O to get in touch with the couriers local 
delivery centre. But I believe they were genuinely trying to resolve things as soon as 
possible, as opposed to putting the onus entirely on Mrs O to chase the matter up 
with the courier.
I can also see that Zenith issued the replacement phone the same day the couriers 
investigation concluded. And it was delivered the next day. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Zenith to wait until the courier was certain the phone was genuinely 
lost before they sent the replacement.
Mrs O was also unhappy shed be getting a refurbished, second-hand phone to 
replace her original device. However, the terms of her policy are absolutely clear that 
thats exactly what would happen. I believe Mrs O has now read the policy and 
accepts this, so I neednt quote the relevant section of the policy here.
This brings me to the question of how the replacement phone was delivered. I think 
there are certain facts here that all parties are agreed on, so Ill start with them.
The phone was delivered by the courier undamaged. The repair centre has 
demonstrated that their packaging is robust  theyve provided a video of a car 
running over a package containing a mobile phone, with no damage resulting. And 
they have photographs of the phone, undamaged, immediately prior to dispatch. Mrs 
O says the neighbour said he opened the package. So, the damage was done to the 
phone after delivery.
Everyone also agrees that the phone is now damaged. Mrs O has provided 
photographs which show extensive cracking from the bottom corner of the phone. 
Theres no dispute that the damage is compatible with the phone impacting a hard 
surface with some force.
The courier has provided some evidence which suggests the phone was delivered 
direct to Mrs Os address. They have a signature for the delivery. There was no card 
left for Mrs O to say the package had been left with a neighbour. And the driver didnt 
complete the system notes which would be expected if they had left the package 
elsewhere. The GPS tracking in the delivery van also puts the van in the right place 
at the right time.
That evidence doesnt prove beyond any doubt that the package was delivered to 
Mrs Os address. The GPS tracking would put the van in the right place even if the driver walked 20 yards or so to leave the package with a neighbour, for example. And 
the driver might have added the signature himself, failed to leave a card and failed to 
update the system.
However, its difficult to see what would motivate the driver to act in that way. Theres 
not a lot of time and effort saved  and theres a certain imperative to ensure they 
arent blamed for any possible misdeeds on the part of the neighbour, or the 
neighbour not handing the package on.
Mrs O hasnt been able to provide any evidence that the package was left with a 
neighbour. And whilst I dont think the onus should necessarily be on her to do so, 
Im also aware that her representative has said they dont know who the neighbour 
was.
I think its slightly odd in that case that they should have originally referred to him as 
a neighbour. And I think the GPS tracking might have some relevance here, because 
the delivery driver wouldnt have walked a long distance to leave the package with 
someone else.
So, it seems to me that if the package was left with a (nearby) neighbour, Mrs O 
should have a relatively easy way to prove that and resolve the matter.
It can be difficult to recollect events entirely accurately after a period of time - and the 
delivery of the phone took place more than 12 months ago now.
Mrs O  or to be more accurate, her representative  tells us that shes now been 
without a functioning mobile phone for more than 12 months  since she sent in her 
original phone for replacement. Thats the level of inconvenience she wants Zenith to 
compensate her for. And thats a reason why the £100 suggested by our investigator 
isnt enough.
I think Mrs Os recollection may be imperfect on this particular matter. In April 2020, 
within a month of reporting that her original phone hadnt arrived back with her, she 
told Zenith she still didnt have a permanent phone. The on-going exchange makes it 
clear that she had a temporary one.
And in mid-May 2020, she asked Zenith to give her an address to which she could 
return the replacement phone because shed had to purchase a replacement 
device another expense incurred.
Where, as in this case, theres no agreement about what happened  and no 
definitive proof one way or the other - I have to make a decision based on whats 
most likely to have happened.
Taking all the evidence and information on this case into account, on balance, I cant 
reasonably conclude that the replacement phone was left with a neighbour and 
damaged by them before it was handed to Mrs O.
There is some evidence  albeit not entirely conclusive  that the phone was 
delivered direct to Mrs Os address. There is no evidence, other than Mrs Os 
recollections, that it was not, despite the fact that the neighbour could be called upon 
to give a statement. And Mrs Os recollections  with the passage of time  appear 
slightly hazy, given what she says about the amount of time shes been without a 
phone.On that basis, I cant reasonably conclude that Zenith have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mrs O. They repaired her original phone  in line with the 
terms of Mrs Os policy. When that phone was lost, they took responsibility for that 
and provided a replacement  in line with the terms of the policy. And, whilst they are 
responsible for making sure the replacement got to Mrs O in good order, I cant 
reasonably conclude that they didnt do that.
And so, my provisional decision as that Mrs Os complaint shouldnt be upheld.
The responses to my provisional decision
Zenith didnt provide any substantive response to my provisional decision.
Mrs Os representative responded in some detail. Ill try to summarise their arguments. 
One  Mrs O not only wanted compensation for her distress and inconvenience, she also 
wanted the repair cost of the phone.
Two  she didnt agree to the terms and conditions about posting beforehand, so shouldnt 
carry any of the risk associated with the parcel being delivered to a neighbour.
Three  the person who handed the phone to Mrs O said he was a neighbour, but she didnt 
know him.
Four  Mrs O received the phone in a damaged state.
Five  the signature on the couriers form doesnt match that of anyone who lives at Mrs Os 
address.
Six  theres little or no other evidence to suggest the parcel was delivered to Mrs Os 
address.
Seven  in the absence of any firm evidence, it would be fairer and/or more appropriate to 
conclude that the parcel wasnt delivered direct to Mrs Os address. 
Eight  Mrs O and her representative have visited the nearby neighbouring houses to try to 
identify the person who handed over the parcel, without success. It would be unfair to 
require them to visit all the houses in the street. Especially since the person concerned 
would in effect be being asked to admit that they damaged the phone. And they likely 
wouldnt remember events from over 12 months ago.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the evidence we have on file. And Ive carefully considered the further 
evidence and comments provided by Mrs Os representative. I know this will disappoint 
Mrs O, but I havent changed my mind. Ill explain why.
I can assure Mrs O that I fully understand that she wanted the repair cost as well as 
compensation for her trouble and upset. If I had decided that Zenith had done something 
wrong, I would have considered the full impact on Mrs O.I also understand she didnt agree to the postage terms and conditions in advance. Which 
was partly why I said Zenith were responsible for the couriers actions.
There is still no evidence that Mrs O received the phone from a neighbour. Other than the 
word of Mrs O and her representative. I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt 
necessarily regard their recollections as completely reliable after this amount of time has 
passed. To put it bluntly, Mrs O and/or her representative appear to have forgotten that she 
acquired a replacement phone relatively soon after the incident in question. So, their 
memories of the relevant events appear to be flawed.
The signature (which is largely just an X) on the couriers form clearly isnt Mrs Os usual 
signature (or her representatives  and they are the only other adult living in the property). 
However, there is still some evidence the parcel was delivered to the correct address. The 
couriers records show that it was. And it remains difficult to see any possible motivation for 
the driver not completing a data return to say he left the parcel with a neighbour, if he had 
done so.
I dont think anyone would expect Mrs O to visit all properties within a certain radius to find 
the unknown neighbour. As I said, I dont think the courier would have walked a huge 
distance to drop off the parcel. And the fact remains that there is therefore no corroboration 
that the parcel was left with someone else.
It is of course entirely possible that the phone was handed by the courier to a person who 
described himself as a neighbour (but presumably wasnt found by knocking on any of the 
doors nearby), who then damaged the phone when opening the parcel and delivered the 
damaged phone to Mrs O.
If that is what happened, then Mrs O and her representative have my sympathy. But Id have 
to ask them both to understand that I cant now know what happened. Im making a decision 
on the balance of probability. And Im afraid what evidence there is in this case suggests its 
more likely that the phone was delivered to the correct address.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Os 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman