The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy alongside a credit card in 1997.
What happened
In April 1997, Mr M applied for a credit card. At the same time, Bank of Scotland sold him a 
PPI policy. The cost of the policy was charged to the account, and so he'd pay for the 
insurance with interest in line with the credit card's terms and conditions.
Mr M thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M didn't agree. So the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr M's case.
Based on what I've seen, I don't think Mr M's complaint should be upheld. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mr M knew he had a choice about buying the PPI. Mr M says it 
wasn't clear that the policy was optional. So I've thought about this alongside the other 
information I've seen about the sale.
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the credit agreement that Mr M completed when he 
applied for the card. I see that to apply for the PPI Mr M needed to tick a separate box 
labelled "Please arrange Credit Card Insurance cover to protect my repayments." This box is 
ticked. So though Mr M says he didn't realise he had a choice, I think it's more likely that he 
knew he had a choice about the PPI, and chose to buy it.
Mr M applied for the policy by post  so I don't think Bank of Scotland advised him to buy the 
policy. But it did have to give Mr M the information he'd need so he could decide for himself 
whether he wanted to buy the policy.
It's possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr M wasn't as clear as it could have 
been. But Mr M opted for the cover - so seems to have wanted this type of cover. He doesn't 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover, such as pre-
existing medical conditions.
DRN-1018373And based on what I've seen of Mr M's circumstances, the cover appears to have been 
useful to him: Mr M says receive full pay for six months if he was off work sick, at which point 
his pay would drop to half pay. But this policy would pay 10% of the amount outstanding on 
Mr M's card at the point he claimed until it had been repaid in full or he returned to work  
which is longer than he'd receive full pay for if he was off work sick. So I'm not persuaded 
that better information would have put Mr M off taking out the cover.
I've taken into account Mr M's other comments. But these points don't change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold Mr M's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman