DRN-3449864
The complaint
Mr M complains that he couldnt place trades on Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limiteds (HLAM) online trading platform.
What happened
Mr M told us he wanted to trade on 9 November 2020 to take advantage of price movements 
on that day. He had difficulty accessing his account. Once he was able to successfully log 
on, he received a quote, but couldnt trade.
HLAM apologised for the inconvenience. It said exceptional trading volumes on 9 November 
2020 had prevented some clients being able to view their accounts and to trade  both on its 
platform and other providers platforms.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
HLAMs terms and conditions set out that it couldnt always guarantee access to its trading 
platform and that this Service couldnt recommend compensation for a lost opportunity to 
trade..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
As our investigator explained, trading volumes were much higher than usual on 9 November 
2020 as many investors adjusted their holdings in light of the US Presidential election and 
the positive news about the first Covid-19 vaccine trial.
HLAM explained in its response to Mr Ms complaint that it invests heavily in its online 
services. But it would be unreasonable for me to expect HLAM to have the infrastructure in 
place to cope with such an unusually high demand from its users. It wouldnt necessarily be 
commercially practicable given the uniqueness of the situation which led to such a high 
volume of investors wanting to access its service.
I must also take into account that this scenario is covered in HLAMs terms of service and it 
clearly sets out that it couldnt guarantee that access to, or trading in, accounts would always 
be available or be available without delay. It says in A12:
We cannot guarantee that access to, or trading in, your Accounts via the HL Website, HL 
Mobile Application, by telephone or by post will be available at all times or without delay. You 
acknowledge that the HL Service may be interrupted and the services available may be 
variable in certain circumstances.
We may at our absolute discretion suspend the operation of our Online Service and/or 
telephone services where we consider it necessary. For example, suspension may be 
necessary for technical reasons, emergencies, regulatory reasons, where we decide it is 
sensible for our or our clients protection, in periods of exceptional trading activity or to 
ensure the continued availability of other services. Occasionally, we may need to suspend 
the provision of the HL Service (including the Online Service) to maintain or upgrade our 
systems. We will not be liable to you if our systems or services are unavailable to you for 
trading or information purposes for whatever reason.
In view of this, I cant reasonably say that the interruption to HLAMs service was 
unreasonable in the unprecedented circumstances.
When Mr M was able to access his account online, he received a quote but couldnt confirm 
a deal. This may have been due to the pressure on HLAMs systems, but its not unusual for 
this scenario to occur when markets are volatile and prices are moving exceptionally quickly, 
as they were on 9 November.
HLAM was able to take dealing instructions by phone. I appreciate Mr M says there would 
likely have been a long wait time, but he could have tried to contact HLAM by phone if he 
wanted to trade.
Whilst I appreciate it must have been very frustrating for Mr M not to be able to trade, I dont 
find HLAM acted unreasonably in the circumstances, or that it is obliged to compensate 
Mr M for the trades he couldnt place online.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman