DRN-2960340
The complaint
Mr J complains that the mileage of a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited was misrepresented to him.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr J under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that he electronically signed in October 2020. The dealer had advertised the car with a 
mileage of 44,519 and the hire purchase agreement and the invoice for the car showed the 
cars mileage as 44,519 - but Mr J says that after the car had been supplied to him he 
noticed that its mileage was 51,000. 
He complained to the dealer and then to MotoNovo Finance. MotoNovo Finance accepted 
that the mileage was wrong because the cars mileage was recorded as 50,886 when it 
passed an MOT test before it was supplied to Mr J but it said that the mileage discrepancy 
wouldnt have had a material effect on the price of the car. Mr J wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She said that there was 
no way for her to determine exactly what price the dealer wouldve sold the car for if the 
mileage had been correct but she said that three online valuation tools that shed used show 
an average value of the car in October 2020 with a mileage of 51,000 as £14,658 - £541 less 
than the price that Mr J paid for the car. She recommended that MotoNovo Finance should 
re-calculate the agreement using £14,658 as the cash price of the car which would result in 
lower monthly payments for Mr J and a lower total amount payable over the lifetime of the 
agreement. She said that it should also refund to Mr J any overpayment that hed already 
made through his monthly payments, with interest.
Mr J has accepted our investigators recommendations but MotoNovo Finance has asked for 
this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that its underwriters have 
confirmed that the mileage would not have a material effect on the price of the car as the 
price is within the fair range for the loan to value ratio and theres no mileage limitation in the 
agreement so Mr J hasnt been negatively detrimented. It says that this hasnt affected the 
quality of the car, its ability to be used or Mr Js enjoyment of it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
MotoNovo Finance has accepted that there was a discrepancy with the cars mileage 
when the car was supplied to Mr J  the hire purchase agreement and the invoice 
show that its mileage was 44,519 and Mr J says that the car was advertised on that 
basis but that after the car had been supplied to him he noticed that its mileage was 
51,000;
MotoNovo Finance says that the cars mileage was recorded as 50,886 when it 
passed an MOT test before it was supplied to Mr J but it says that the price of the car 
was in the fair range for the loan to value ratio and that the mileage discrepancy 
wouldnt have had a material effect on the price of the car;
I consider that the car was misrepresented to Mr J and, even though the price may 
have been in the fair range for a car of this age and mileage, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude that Mr J would have paid less for a car that had been driven 
for 51,000 miles than he would for the same car that had only been driven for 44,419 
miles;
our investigator used three online valuation tools to calculate an average value for 
the car of £14,658  the price of the car that was supplied to Mr J was £15,199 so 
£541 more than the average value;
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to re-calculate the 
hire purchase agreement using £14,658 as the cash price of the car which should 
result in lower monthly payments for Mr J and a lower total amount payable over the 
lifetime of the agreement; and
I also find that it should refund to Mr J any overpayment that hes already made 
through his monthly payments, with interest.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for MotoNovo Finance to 
take the actions described above and as set out below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and I order MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
1. Re-calculate Mr Js hire purchase agreement using £14,658 as the cash price 
of the car.
2. Refund to Mr J the amount of any overpayment that hes then made through 
his monthly payments.
3. Pay interest on that refund at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. MotoNovo Finance must give Mr J a certificate showing how 
much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman