DRN-3845023
The complaint
Miss P complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly closed her bank account without notice and 
delayed the release of the money she held within it.
What happened
Miss P banked with TSB, holding business and personal accounts. Miss P also held a 
Bounce Back Loan with the bank and, after concluding that she was ineligible for it, TSB 
decided to end its relationship with Miss P. The banks decision on Miss Ps Bounce Back 
Loan and business account is the subject of a separate complaint.
TSB wrote to Miss P on 4 March 2021 to say that it was closing her account with immediate 
effect. At this time, the account had a balance of just under £800. 
In the event, the account remained open until 14 July. Following some direct debit payments, 
the balance reduced to around £550. TSB says it sent Miss P a cheque for the balance on 
14 July.
Miss P says there was no basis for TSBs actions and that being unable to access her 
money was distressing. She says she had to borrow money from family to cover bills while 
awaiting the release of funds held with TSB. TSB says it closed Miss Ps account in line with 
the terms and conditions.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ps complaint. He didnt think TSB had done 
anything wrong in closing the account, but he couldnt see why it had taken the bank so long 
to release the account balance to Miss P. So he recommended that TSB pay Miss P £150 
for the distress and inconvenience this delay had caused.
Miss P didnt accept our investigators view, as she didnt think TSB had any basis on which 
to close her personal account and thought £150 compensation was insufficient. TSB didnt 
accept our investigators view either. It said that the account had remained open until 
14 July, and that Miss P had access to her funds. So the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision
My initial view of this complaint differed from that of our investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my findings, and invited both parties to let me have any 
further information or evidence they wanted me to take into account before I made a final 
decision. 
I said:
TSBs decision to close Miss Ps personal account was based on its review of her 
Bounce Back Loan application. That is the subject of a separate complaint, under 
which I have provisionally found that the bank erred in its conclusion. It follows that I 
dont think TSB had legitimate grounds to terminate its relationship with Miss P as a 
personal customer either. So, from what Ive seen so far and subject to the final 
decision I reach on the complaint about Miss Ps business accounts, I am intending 
to uphold this complaint and direct TSB to compensate Miss P for the impact of the 
immediate closure of her personal account. 
TSB says that Miss P retained access to her personal account until it was belatedly 
closed in July 2021, when it says it released the balance to her by cheque. But it 
hasnt evidenced this. The fact the account was open  and that direct debits were 
still being paid  doesnt mean that other restrictions werent in place. I cant see why 
Miss P wouldve chosen not to access the account, when it was evident that being 
without the money was causing her some considerable trouble and upset.
All of this means I think Miss P was unfairly deprived of access to her funds from 
around 4 March 2021 until she received a cheque from TSB last May. I acknowledge 
that TSBs records suggest that it sent a cheque for the closing balance to Miss P in 
July 2021, but it seems this wasnt received. While the missing cheque may not have 
been the fault of the bank, the situation only arose because of its error in closing the 
account in the manner it did. To compensate Miss P for being deprived the use of her 
funds, I think TSB should pay her 8% on the closing balance for the period 4 March 
2021 to 18 May 2022.
It is evident that being without funds caused Miss P some understandable distress 
during an already difficult time (with the bank also closing her business account and 
recalling her Bounce Back Loan). She was understandably concerned as to what 
was happening and spent time speaking with TSB, including visiting her local branch, 
to work out what she had done wrong. And she had to borrow from family to cover 
day-to-day expenses and make alternative banking arrangements with another 
provider. To compensate Miss P for the upset and inconvenience she was caused, I 
think TSB should pay her £500. 
Miss P accepted my provisional decision, but TSB didnt. It said, in summary, that Miss P 
had been aware from 4 March 2021 that TSB was closing her account  and even though it 
didnt do so until 14 July, there were no records to suggest that Miss P had followed up on 
things with the bank. Had she done so, arrangements couldve been made for her to 
withdraw the balance as cash at her local branch. The bank also said it wasnt responsible 
for Miss P not receiving the cheque it had sent in July 2021, having relied on the Royal Mail 
for safe delivery. It therefore maintained that the £150 it had already offered to pay was fair 
compensation for what it deemed to be its only error in failing to close the account in March 
2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why TSBs further comments havent changed my mind.
Firstly I should highlight that I dont think TSBs only error was in failing to close the account 
in March 2021. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I think it was an error on 
the banks part to have decided to close the account in the first place. And even when 
factoring in that TSB could, ultimately, decide whether it wished to continue to offer Miss P 
an account (albeit the basis on which it made that decision was flawed), I think it ought at the 
very least to have given her 60 days notice of its intention to close the account  rather than 
simply withdraw the facility immediately.There was then a delay in actually closing Miss Ps account, with TSB only doing so  and 
attempting to release the balance  on 14 July. TSB says there is no record of Miss P 
chasing things up with it, which it wouldve expected if Miss P had an urgent need for the 
funds. But Miss P has consistently recounted her various attempts to contact TSB, including 
visiting her branch and calling its helpline numbers, in an effort to understand what was 
happening and how to access the account balance. Its not uncommon for contact  
particularly branch visits  to go unrecorded, and this matter may also have been wrapped 
up within Miss Ps contact with the bank about her business account and Bounce Back Loan. 
So the fact that the bank doesnt have a record of Miss Ps contact with it about her personal 
account dont lead me to disbelieve Miss Ps recollections.
I appreciate that TSB appears to have attempted to release the balance to Miss P by 
sending her a cheque in July 2021. Its not obvious why this wasnt received  there couldve 
been a fault on TSBs part (as I cant be sure that it was dispatched, or where to), or in its 
delivery, or by Miss P on receipt of it. But ultimately, the situation wouldnt have arisen had 
TSB not made errors in closing the account in error at the outset.
So I still think it is right that TSB compensates Miss P for the extent of the shortcomings (and 
the impact these had on her) as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to:
Calculate 8% simple interest per year on the closing account balance for the period 
4 March 2021 to 18 May 2022 and pay this amount to Miss P, and
Pay Miss P compensation of £500.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman