DRN-4008003
The complaint
A company Ill call S complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) unfairly closed its account at 
short notice. To put things right, S wants compensation of at least £2,500, and for Metro to 
be fined.
S is represented by one of its directors, Mr C.
What happened
Our investigator has set out the background to this complaint in detail, so Ive summarised 
the key points below as the facts are well known to both parties. Mr C says that Metro 
blocked Ss account on 29 September 2020 while it carried out a review. It also applied a 
similar block to another limited company account operated by Mr C, but Ill address that 
matter in a separate decision.
On completing its review, Metro issued a letter dated 19 November 2020, giving S 7 days 
notice of its intention to close Ss account. It said it was exercising its right under clause 13.2 
of its terms of business, but it didnt explain he reasons for its decision. Mr C complained, 
saying he had received Metros letter on 27 November 2020, the day after Ss account had 
been closed. He was also unhappy at a delay in Metro releasing the account balance to him, 
despite attending branch to collect the funds.
Metro issued its final response to Ss complaint on 11 March 2021. It apologised for the 
delay in closing Ss account, as well as the other limited company account operated by Mr C. 
It said it had offered Mr Cs other company £800 in compensation, but it said its terms of 
business entitled it to block and close Ss account and it didnt offer any compensation in 
respect of Ss complaint.
Mr C remained unhappy, so he brought Ss complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
at Ss complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said Metro was entitled to block and close Ss 
account, and that it didnt have to provide Mr C with specific information about the review or 
closure when he asked for more information. But she did say Metro had delayed in 
completing its review and should compensate S accordingly.
Our investigator initially said Metro should pay S interest in the account balance at a rate of 
8% between 6 October 2020 and 2 December 2020, being the dates she felt Metro had 
caused undue delay. But Metro then provided further information that showed Mr C did in 
fact have access to Ss account during the period in question. So, she said Metro shouldnt 
have to pay interest on Ss account balance after all, given Mr C had access to the funds.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators findings, so he asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2023. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review.
So, in order to make an award in favour of S, I would need to be satisfied that Metro acted 
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied 
Metro acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Ss account. And 
that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that governed the 
relationship between Metro and S.
Because Metro has given our service conflicting information about the block it applied to Ss 
account, I cant be certain as to the extent of the block. However, Ive looked at account 
statements for S during the period in question and I can see numerous transfers out of the 
account. So, while some account functionality may have been limited, S did still have access 
to the balance and Ive seen nothing to suggest it experienced problems in moving funds.
Our investigator initially awarded interest on the closing balance of £2,212.85 to compensate 
S for the period it had been unfairly deprived of the use of its money. But she changed her 
mind when Metro demonstrated S hadnt been deprived of its money. For the reasons Ive 
set out above, Im satisfied Metro was entitled to block Ss account, so I wont ask it to 
compensate S for doing so, given it did nothing wrong. And I agree with our investigator that 
it wouldnt be appropriate to tell Metro to compensate S for the delay it said it caused while 
the block was in place, given S had access to its funds the whole time.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. Metro quoted section 13.2 
of its account terms and conditions when it closed Ss account.
That section says Metro can close Ss account without notice in certain circumstances, and it 
lists the criteria it must meet in order for it to do so. The terms and conditions though dont 
oblige Metro to disclose the reasons for its decision to Mr C, and I can see Metro didnt want 
to tell Mr C why it closed the account.
With that being the case, Ive looked at the evidence Metro provided our service to 
determine whether or not it acted fairly when it closed Ss account. And having done so, Im 
satisfied that it did and that it was entitled to close Ss account without giving it advance
notice. Mr C has said he received the notice letter after it expired, so Ive looked at whether 
Metro should have to compensate S for the delay in postage.
Metro has provided our service with evidence that shows the letter was dispatched on 19 
November 2020, and Mr C has confirmed he did receive the letter, albeit late. While I 
understand the frustration Mr C experienced as a result of receiving a notice to close Ss 
account a week late, Im satisfied Metro dispatched the letter when it said it did. And I dont hold it responsible for any delays in posting after it dispatched the letter. And, as Ive said 
above, Im satisfied Metro was entitled to close Ss account without notice, so even though I 
accept Mr C received the letter after it had expired, I wont ask Metro to do anything further 
to put matters right for S.
Cheque release
Mr C has set out details of difficulties he experienced in obtaining release of his companies 
funds after the accounts had been closed. While he did ask Metro for the balance of Ss 
account on the day in question, most of the issues he has referred to relate to his other 
complaint, so Ill address them in a separate decision.
The balance of Ss account at the date of closing was £2,212.85. Mr C said he received 
Metros notice to close letter on Friday 27 November 2020, and that he tried to withdraw the 
funds when he visited his local Metro branch at the start of December, but that he didnt 
receive the funds until several days later.
Ive seen an internal email from Metro that talks about issuing a cheque for the closing 
balance, but its not clear from that email chain which account that was referring to. Ss 
statement appears to show the account balance was transferred by faster payment to a new 
account Mr C had setup on 2 December 2020, which of course is at odds with what Mr C 
told our service. And Mr C originally said he hadnt received the payment as at 7 December 
2020.
Because the parties dont agree on the date the payment was released, Ive made my 
decision by weighing the evidence available, and on the balance of probabilities. Having 
done so, I find its more likely than not that the statement is a correct record and that the 
funds were released on 2 December 2020. This is the position our investigator stated in her 
view and Mr C didnt challenge it and hasnt submitted any evidence to the contrary.
That being the case, I cant say there was an unreasonable delay as Mr C attended branch 
on 1 December to request release of funds. And I find next day payment to be a reasonable 
timeframe in the circumstances of this particular case. Metro also wrote to S with notice of its 
intention to close Ss account, which would have given Mr C the opportunity to withdraw the 
funds ahead of time. And while he didnt receive that letter until after the account had been 
closed, Im assessing Metros actions here so I cant say it didnt take reasonable steps in 
the circumstances of this case to forewarn Mr C.
I understand this isnt the answer Mr C was hoping for, and that hell be disappointed with 
my decision. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied Metro was entitled to block 
and close Ss account in the manner it did. And that it didnt in reasonably delay in releasing 
the account balance. With that being the case, I wont be asking Metro to do anything further 
to put matters right for S issued my provisional decision on 3 March 2023.
Both parties accepted my provisional findings, so my final decision remains the same.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-SmithOmbudsman