DRN-4248614
The complaint
Mr P and Ms L complain about the interest rates and redemption charge on their mortgage 
taken out with Santander UK Plc (Santander).
Mr P and Ms L took out their mortgage with Abbey National, which has since become 
Santander, so I will refer to Santander throughout this decision for ease.
What happened
Mr P and Ms L took out a mortgage with Santander in September 1994. They transferred to 
a new product which completed on 14 May 1999. The mortgage was redeemed on 28 
August 2002.
Mr P complained to Santander about his mortgage in December 2002. He said that a 
capped rate was discussed with the mortgage advisor and, despite the fact that the interest 
rate was higher than others available, he chose this as it was sold to him as being a product 
where repayments would reduce when interest rates went down but only increase as far at 
the cap when interest rates went up. However, he said that the product hadnt operated in 
this way and when interest rates went down, the repayments did not. 
Mr P therefore complained in December 2002 that the product had been mis-sold and mis-
advertised as the repayments didnt go down when the base rate went down. He also 
complained that he had been charged a product-related charge (PRC) when he moved from 
the product upon redemption, which he believed to be invalid and inappropriate given that 
the product had been mis-sold in the first place. He said that he had previously raised his 
complaint verbally in branch and been told that some people didnt understand that the 
product was capped down as well as up. He said he did not as the advisor neglected to 
mention it and it was also not mentioned in the documentation supplied.
Mr P and Ms L have now complained to this service about the same issues raised in their 
letter to Santander in 2002, along with some further issues. As Santanders response at the 
time didnt explain that they had six months to refer the matter to this service, it was not 
considered a valid final response in line with the requirements of the relevant rules at the 
time the response was sent. This service has already provided a decision in relation to which 
parts of Mr P and Ms Ls complaint we can consider and decided that we only have the 
power to consider the complaints raised in Mr Ps letter of December 2002, as the rest were 
made out of time. 
Mr P and Ms L say that they want the PRC of over £4,000 to be refunded in addition to 
interest on the whole of the loan since 1992.
Santander says that Mr P and Ms L were correctly advised that the maximum interest rate 
they would pay was the capped rate of 6.25% and if interest rates fell below that their 
repayments would reduce. It says that the SVR did not fall below the rate of 6.25% until 1 
December 2001, when their repayments went down. The Bank of England base rate 
(BOEBR) remained static following this so Santander didnt amend its SVR again until 1 
December 2002, when Mr P and Ms Ls mortgage had already been redeemed. It also 
confirmed that the capped rate product only has a maximum interest rate and not a minimum 
interest rate.
In relation to the PRC, Santander says that this was charged upon redemption and that its 
PRCs are both proper and reasonable. It says that full details of the amount payable would 
have been included in the mortgage offer when Mr P and Ms L converted their mortgage to 
the capped rate mortgage. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Santander needed to do anything 
in respect of the points we were able to consider. In relation to the applicable interest rate, 
she found that no cap was applied to Mr P and Ms Ls mortgage in respect of rate 
reductions. As Mr P and Ms Ls mortgage wasnt linked to the BOEBR, she didnt agree that 
their rate ought to have tracked in line with it. In respect of the PRC, the investigator was 
satisfied that this had been charged correctly in line with the terms of the mortgage.
Mr P and Ms L have disagreed with this, so the case has come to me to make a decision. 
They have said that the terms of the mortgage were unfair as the differential between the 
BOEBR and Santanders SVR changed. They say the mortgage agreement was therefore 
misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
The interest rate
Mr P and Ms L have said that the mortgage was mis-sold as the repayments didnt go down 
when the BOEBR went down. They have also said that the fact the product was capped 
down as well as up wasnt mentioned by either the advisor or in the documentation when the 
product was sold to them.
Mr P and Ms L say that the BOEBR was 5.25% when they took out the mortgage and their 
mortgage rate was 6.25%. The BOEBR went up and then returned to 5.25% in May 2001. 
Mr P and Ms L say that the BOEBR reduced four times by a total of 1.25% between then 
and 1 December 2001 and this only resulted in Santander reducing their mortgage rate by 
0.2%.
There is no record of what Mr P and Ms L were told in branch at the time of sale so it is 
impossible to establish now exactly what they were told at the time. However, I have looked 
at the documentation available from the time of sale.
Ive looked at the mortgage offer sent to Mr P and Ms L in March 1999, which also enclosed 
the terms and conditions of the mortgage. The offer set out that until 30 April 2006, interest 
would be charged at Santanders standard variable rate (SVR) as varied from time to time 
but restricted to a maximum interest rate of 6.25% (the capped rate). It goes on to state that 
after 30 April 2006, the maximum interest rate will no longer apply and interest would be 
charged on the loan at the current SVR without any restriction. 
Santander has said that its SVR only went down once below its capped rate of 6.25% 
between 14 May 1999 and 28 August 2002 and this was on 1 December 2001. Mr P and Ms 
L have also provided information showing that their interest rate went down to 6.05% as of 1 
December 2001. So Im satisfied that this was the only time when their rate reduced below 
6.25%.
I am satisfied that the offer makes it clear that the interest rate applicable to Mr P and Ms Ls 
mortgage would be Santanders SVR, and not the BOEBR. I also note that the mortgage 
offer states that Santanders SVR at the time was 7%. The BOEBR at that time was 5.25%, 
so I think it should also have been clear that Santanders SVR was different to the base rate.So, whilst I appreciate that BOEBR may have reduced prior to 1 December 2001, there is 
nothing in the offer to suggest that Santanders SVR would be linked to the BOEBR. So I 
cant say that the interest rate applied to Mr P and Ms Ls mortgage was incorrect or that 
Santander has done anything wrong in this respect. 
Mr P and Ms L have said that the term is unfair as the mortgage agreement was misleading, 
due to the differential between the BOEBR and Santanders SVR changing. I disagree with 
this. Variable rates are not uncommon in mortgages. As set out above, I am satisfied that the 
applicable rate was made clear in the terms of Mr P and Ms Ls mortgage offer, which made 
no reference to being linked with BOEBR. Likewise, for the reasons set out above, I am also 
satisfied that Santander applied the rate in line with the applicable terms.
In relation to there being a lower cap, there is no mention of a lower cap in the mortgage 
offer and Santander has confirmed that there was not a minimum interest rate. In any event, 
there was no point where Santanders SVR was lower than the rate being applied to Mr P 
and Ms Ls mortgage, so I cant see that their rate was ever subject to a lower cap as 
suggested.
The PRC
Mr P and Ms L have also complained that they were charged a PRC when they moved from 
the product upon redemption, which they believed to be invalid and inappropriate given that 
the product had been mis-sold in the first place. 
For the reasons set out above, I disagree that the mortgage was mis-sold. However, I have 
gone on to consider this point and whether it was reasonable for Santander to charge the 
PRC.
I have looked at the mortgage offer provided to Mr P and Ms L. This states The Capped 
Rate is provided on the basis that you will keep the Loan with us until at least 30 April 2006. 
If before 30 April 2006 you repay the whole or any part of the Loan (other than the agreed 
repayment of capital on a repayment mortgage) or transfer the whole or any part of the Loan 
from the Capped Rate then we will charge a fee which will be equal to 4.750% X the 
amount repaid or transferred.
I have also looked at the closing statement for Mr P and Ms Ls mortgage which shows that 
the redemption amount (less fees) was £79,956.41. A PRC of £3,797.92 was added to this 
and that is equal to 4.75%. 
As Mr P and Ms L redeemed their mortgage prior to 30 April 2006, I am satisfied that the 
PRC was charged in line with the terms of the mortgage. Therefore I am satisfied that 
Santander has done nothing wrong in this respect.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr P and Ms L, but I can't say that 
Santander has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case and I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
Santander UK Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman