DRN-1829447
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Evergreen Finance London Ltd (trading as Moneyboat) lent to 
her irresponsibly. 
 
What happened
Mrs H was given 2 loans by Moneyboat between April and August 2018. The loans were due 
to be repaid between four and six months. Mrs H has repaid the first loan but the second 
loan is still outstanding. 
 
I understand that Mrs H also applied for several other loans with Moneyboat at different 
times. But the lender has confirmed that none of her other loan applications went ahead. So 
my decision is only concerned with the following loans: 
 
LoanDate 
TakenDate Repaid Instalments AmountMonthly 
Repayment
1 18.4.18 17.8.18 4 £300.00 £117.62
2 17.8.18 open 6 £1,000.00 £280.32
 
Mrs H's complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that 
Moneyboat shouldnt have provided either of the loans to Mrs H and he asked Moneyboat to 
pay her some compensation. Moneyboat didn't agree with that assessment. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to resolve the matter.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H could repay the loans in a sustainable way. Moneyboat's checks could take into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
 
But I've also considered if there were any other factors that might indicate that Moneyboat 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish whether the lending was 
sustainable for Mrs H.
 
 Such factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Moneyboat was required to establish whether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mrs H. 
Moneyboat carried out some checks before it gave each loan to Mrs H. This included asking 
Mrs H for details of her income and expenditure and carrying out some credit checks. 
Moneyboat says it uses the results of these credit checks to satisfy itself that the consumer 
would be able to sustainably meet the loan repayments.
 
Moneyboat has told us it thinks the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend to Mrs H 
each time were proportionate. It says that the checks were automated and that it is 
unrealistic for an underwriter to review every line of a credit file prior to lending, especially at 
an early stage of the lending relationship.  
But I dont think its enough for a lender to simply carry out checks. I would expect a lender 
to respond appropriately to the information it gathers when assessing a customers 
application for lending. The information gathered by Moneyboat before lending to Mrs H on 
both occasions showed she was having problems managing her money. I say this because 
the credit searches showed that Mrs H had seriously underestimated the amount she was 
spending each month on her credit commitments.
When Mrs H applied for Loan 1, she asked to borrow £1,500. Moneyboat declined to lend 
this amount and instead agreed a loan of £300. But the credit searches showed that Mrs H 
had existing credit commitments of around £2,000 a month  significantly more than the 
£900 she had estimated in her loan application. And that Mrs Hs credit commitments and 
monthly expenses exceeded her monthly income, even before her loan repayments to 
Moneyboat of £117.62. The credit searches also indicated that Mrs H was borrowing from a 
number of other lenders when she asked for the loan. I think all this should reasonably have 
caused some concerns for Moneyboat because it showed that Mrs H was having difficulties 
managing her money and it was unlikely that she would be able to sustainably repay the 
loan. So I dont think Moneyboat was right in providing the first loan to her.
When Mrs H applied for her second loan, the credit checks carried out by Moneyboat 
showed that her monthly credit commitments had increased to more than £3,000 per month. 
This exceeded her disclosed monthly income of £2,330  even before her other regular 
expenses and her loan repayments to Moneyboat were taken into account. I think 
Moneyboat should reasonably have realised that Mrs H would most likely need to borrow 
elsewhere to repay her loan and it was again unlikely that she could repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.  I dont think Moneyboat was right in providing Mrs H with the second 
loan.
 
So I am upholding Mrs Hs complaint about the loans taken on 18 April 2018 (loan 1) and 
17th August 2018 (loan 2). Moneyboat needs to put things right.
 
Putting things right
I understand that loan 2 is still outstanding. Moneyboat should try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Mrs H in respect of any outstanding balance - bearing in mind 
the need to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
 
If Moneyboat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If Moneyboat isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Moneyboat should:
 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs H towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 1, not including anything that may have already been refunded.B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs H for loan 1, 
calculated from the date the payments were originally made to the date the complaint 
is settled. 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loan 2, 
and treat any repayments made by Mrs H as though they had been repayments of 
the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mrs H having made 
overpayments then Moneyboat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
D. If an outstanding balance remains then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan (and any principal 
written-off under a redress scheme). If this results in a surplus then the surplus 
should be paid to Mrs H. If an outstanding balance remains then Moneyboat should 
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs H.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to deduct tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
should give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London 
Ltd (trading as Moneyboat) to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman