DRN-1311068
The complaint
Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2006. Mrs 
G applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint because Barclays recommended the policy to Mrs 
G but I dont think it was right for her. Mrs G had a medical condition when she bought the 
policy which wouldnt have been covered. 
I dont think Mrs G wouldve bought the policy if Barclays had made clear it wasnt right for 
her. So, I think Mrs G has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Barclayss comments, including what it said about pointing Mrs G to 
the exclusion of her pre-existing medical condition. But I still think I should uphold the 
complaint. I think the evidence available is insufficient to show on balance that Barclays 
clearly told Mrs G that her medical condition wasnt covered and that it was recommending 
the policy to her in spite of this.
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs G in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Barclays should:
Pay Mrs G the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman