DRN-4161726
The complaint
Mr C complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds (Acromas) decision to settle 
a third-party claim against his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C says, while attempting to park his car, he was involved in an incident with a third party. 
Mr C says he exchanged details with the third party and then called Acromas to notify them 
of the incident, but he didnt claim as there was only minor damage to his car. Mr C says he 
thought that was the end of the matter but when he received his renewal, he noticed the 
premium had doubled. Mr C says he contacted Acromas to query this and they informed him 
the third party had claimed against Mr Cs policy. Mr C complained as he says he never 
received any notification from Acromas about the claim. Acromas responded and explained, 
shortly after Mr C reported the incident to them, theyd sent notification to Mr C letting him 
know they would be settling the third partys claim. They explained, as a goodwill gesture, 
theyd reinstated Mr Cs No Claims Discount (NCD). They also agreed to record the claim 
as non-fault.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. She thought Acromas hadnt acted unfairly 
when deciding to settle the claim. Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Cs car insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and, under a section headed Accidents and losses it says , You or your legal 
personal representatives must give us as quickly as possible full details of any incident 
which could lead to a claim under this policy. and Anyone claiming cover under this policy 
must give us whatever information, documentation and help we need and continue to do so 
until the claim is concluded. It goes further to say, If we wish we may take over and deal 
with your claim in your name.  
Case notes provided by Acromas show that Mr C called Acromas and explained the incident 
circumstances to them as notification only  and he wasnt making a claim. He explained the 
incident occurred while Mr C was attempting to park his car and the third-party was pulling 
out of a parking space  this led to Mr Cs car slightly scraping the third partys car. Acromas 
then write to Mr C and explain theyve investigated the accident circumstances as supplied 
by Mr C upon reporting the claim. They say, We must advise that in our professional 
opinion, based upon the details to hand, it will not be possible to prove that the third party 
involved in this matter was negligent. Acromas explain theyll now proceed to settle the third 
partys claim upon the best possible terms. They attach a Frequently Asked Questions 
document which sets out the steps Mr C can take if he disagrees with their decision. It says, 
We have based our decision on the evidence supplied to date, if you have any further 
evidence that is yet to be sent on to us, for example, details of an independent witness, 
please do so as soon as possible. Acromas say they didnt hear back from Mr C so they 
proceeded to settle the third partys claim. 
I acknowledge Mr C says he didnt receive any acknowledgment or liability decision from 
Acromas, and the first time he heard about the claim being settled was when he called them 
to query why his premium had increased. Ive seen the letter sent to Mr C with Acromas 
liability decision and this has been addressed correctly. I do understand it will be frustrating 
for Mr C if this letter hasnt been received but I cant hold Acromas responsible if there has 
been an error by the postal service. Based on the information Ive seen, I think its more 
likely than not that Acromas did notify Mr C of their liability decision. I note Mr C says there 
were postal strikes at the time the liability notification letter was sent, and he feels Acromas 
shouldve chased him. I do acknowledge Mr Cs point but, I dont think it was unreasonable 
in the circumstances for Acromas to take the view their letter would be received.      
The next point Ive looked at is whether I believe Acromas acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their liability decision. Mr C explained the accident circumstances when he called 
Acromas. In his report to our service, Mr C says he approached a parking space on his left 
and On the right a man started to reverse out and because of our position and the 
closeness of the cars we could not do anything but edge forward. The car which reversed on 
us by then had moved forwards to us and was very close. Instead of going back he refused 
to move and so we gently went forward and in doing so touched the side of his car. 
I note Mr C feels Acromas shouldve consulted him before making a decision on liability. 
Acromas accept more couldve been asked about the circumstances leading to the incident. 
They say however, even if this had been done, this mightve led to a split liability decision  
but not one that wouldve found the third party wholly at fault. So, this would still have been 
recorded as a fault claim against Mr C. Taking into account the information Acromas had, 
and Mr Cs own description of the incident, I dont think its unreasonable for Acromas to 
have treated the incident as a fault claim. 
I acknowledge Mr C says the third party claims Mr C went into the back of his car, which    
Mr C says wasnt the case. From the information Ive seen, it appears Acromas based their 
decision on the version of events given by Mr C. That said, I can see Acromas accept they 
couldve asked more about the details. And even though they believe the outcome would still 
have been the same, with a fault claim showing on Mr Cs policy  they agreed to allow the 
claim to be recorded as non-fault. Acromas say, while this isnt usual practice, they feel this 
is fair in acknowledging they couldve done more. Acromas also agreed to reinstate Mr Cs 
NCD. I think Acromas actions here are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I wish to reassure Mr C Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman