DRN-3124637
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the settlement options proposed by Amtrust Europe Limited 
regarding a claim under her household warranty policy.
For ease, reference to Amtrust includes things said and done by its agents.
What happened
Miss F has a Guardsman furniture protection policy which is underwritten by Amtrust. 
The policy provides cover for accidental damage, accidental staining and structural 
damage. 
In February 2020, Miss F made a claim for accidental staining when pen ink stained 
her sofa.
A technician attended and said the damage wasnt repairable and that replacement 
sofa cushion covers were instead required. 
In December 2020, Miss F received the replacement covers but they were the wrong 
shape and colour. 
In March 2021, more cushion covers were sent but again, they didnt match Miss Fs 
sofa. 
As suitable replacement covers couldnt be sourced from the manufacturer, Amtrust 
proposed two settlement options to Miss F: 
1. Vouchers for Miss F to purchase a new sofa from a retailer specified by 
Amtrust. The voucher total is limited to the purchase price of Miss Fs 
original sofa. If the replacement item exceeds this value, Miss F would 
need to pay the difference. 
2. Miss F keeps the existing sofa and receives a cash settlement based on 
the anticipated costs Amtrust would incur in replacing the sofa. 
Miss F believes neither option is fair. She says she cant find a like for like 
replacement sofa at the retailer Amtrust is directing her to without incurring costs at 
her own expense. And the cash settlement doesnt enable her to purchase a suitable 
new sofa. 
Miss F says her experience with Amtrust has been very stressful and has had a 
negative impact on her mental wellbeing. 
Amtrust has explained the delays were due to the pandemic and were outside of its 
control. But it recognised its service had fallen short with regards to the replacement 
cushion covers and paid Miss F £100 compensation to reflect this. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She said Amtrust has the discretion, 
under the policy to settle the claim by cash settlement - and that providing a cash 
settlement based on the costs Amtrust would incur was fair. 
She said the retailer Miss F purchased her sofa from no longer existed and that 
Amtrust was entitled to decide where the reselection vouchers could be used. She 
also thought the compensation paid was fair.
Miss F disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why. Its not in dispute that the staining 
to Miss Fs sofa is covered under the policy. But what is in dispute is whether the settlement 
options proposed by Amtrust are fair in the circumstances. 
The starting point in deciding this is the policy document, which says:
If a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to replace the damaged part. In the 
event of this not being possible, Guardsman may at its sole discretion provide a 
replacement product(s).
It goes on to say:
Alternatively, Guardsman may at its sole discretion settle the claim by a cash 
payment instead of a repair or replacement.
Amtrust attempted to repair the damaged parts of the sofa - first by sending out a technician 
and then ordering new cushion covers  but when it became apparent the damaged parts 
couldnt be repaired, it gave Miss F the option of settling the claim by cash or using vouchers 
to enable her to purchase a replacement sofa. Im satisfied this is a reasonable course of 
action  and ultimately, its up to the insurer to choose how it settles the claim. 
Cash settlement
Miss F complains the cash settlement is less than the amount she originally paid for the sofa 
 she says its not enough to buy a suitable replacement. I appreciate Miss Fs point of view, 
but the policy makes it clear that any cash settlement will be limited to the equivalent cost of 
repair or replacement by Guardsman. 
Its standard practice for insurers to have established relationships with particular retailers 
and manufacturers which enables them to source goods at a discounted rate  which is why 
Amtrust has offered a cash settlement based on what it would cost it to repair or replace 
Miss Fs sofa. So, I cant say Amtrust has acted unfairly in making a cash settlement offer 
which is less than what Miss F originally paid.
Vouchers 
Miss F said she bought her sofa at a time when it was heavily discounted and that its current 
retail price far exceeds the total voucher value. Its common practice for insurers to settle 
claims using vouchers which are restricted to certain retailers. While I sympathise with               
Miss Fs predicament the policy makes it clear - under the heading limits of cover that:
the most the insurer will pay under this Furniture Protection Plan is limited to the 
original purchase price of your product
So, Im satisfied Amtrust hasnt acted unfairly by limiting the vouchers to the original 
purchase price as its entitled to do this under the policy.Compensation 
Amtrust has paid £100 compensation to Miss F for the delays she experienced with the 
manufacturer of the cushion covers. While this claim has gone on for longer than I would 
expect to see, I must keep in mind that it occurred during the pandemic when national 
lockdown restrictions were in place  meaning the delays were largely outside of Amtrusts 
control.  So, it wouldnt be fair to tell Amtrust to pay compensation for delays it wasnt 
responsible for. 
Understandably, Miss F is upset that the stain has affected the sofas appearance. While it 
might be unsightly, it hasnt prevented Miss F from using the sofa for its intended purpose. 
And I must keep this in mind when considering the impact of Amtrusts actions. 
I do agree compensation is warranted because Miss F had to chase Amtrust for information 
and on two occasions the replacement cushion covers werent suitable  even after Miss F 
had provided a sample swatch. But having reviewed whats happened, Im satisfied £100 
fairly reflects the difficulties Miss F has experienced.
I know my decision will disappoint Miss F but in summary, Im satisfied the settlement 
options provided by Amtrust are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  Ill leave the 
decision for choosing which settlement option, if either, with Miss F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman