DRN-3894072
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy that when HSBC UK Bank Plc transferred money to her overseas account
they exchanged the amounts into the local currency, when shed instructed them to complete
the transfers in UK Sterling (GBP), which her overseas account could accept.
What happened
Ms W transferred £40,000 from her HSBC account in the UK to an overseas account that
could accept and hold GBP. A few days later, Ms W made a second transfer on the same
basis, this time for £43,000.
Ms W instructed HSBC to transfer the money in GBP, because she needed to make a large
transaction in GBP in the overseas territory. However, when HSBC completed the
transactions, they converted the sent money into the local currency, meaning that Ms W had
to convert it back into GBP when she received it. Ms W wasnt happy about this, especially
as it meant she lost money resulting from two sets of currency exchange rates and fees. So,
she raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Ms Ws complaint. They accepted that theyd completed the transfers in the
wrong currency, and they apologised to Ms W for this and made a payment of £75 to her as
compensation for any trouble and upset she may have incurred and a further payment of
£30 to cover Ms Ws telephone costs.
HSBC also explained that theyd be willing to reimburse Ms W for any losses incurred
because of their mistake, so long as these losses could be demonstrated to them, for
instance via Ms Ws overseas bank account statements. Ms W wasnt satisfied with HSBCs
response, and noted that shed already provided HSBC with documents from her overseas
account which detailed the received transfers. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that HSBCs response to Ms
Ws complaint, including that HSBC would look to reimburse Ms W for any losses shed
incurred so long as those losses could be demonstrated, was reasonable. And they didnt
feel the information that Ms W had sent HSBC did demonstrate her losses as HSBC
reasonably required. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. Ms W remained dissatisfied, so
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 December 2022 as follows:
HSBC dont dispute that they made a mistake here in that they exchanged the 
transfer amounts into the local currency, which Ms W has explained she then had to 
exchange back into GBP, thus receiving a lower amount of GBP than she should 
have done as a result of the two currency exchanges.
HSBC have confirmed that theyd be willing to reimburse Ms W the losses she 
incurred because of this  specifically, HSBC would be willing to reimburse to Ms W 
the amount of GBP needed, after Ms W exchanged the transfer amounts received in 
the local currency back into GBP, so that Ms W had the amount of GBP she should 
have had, if HSBC had transferred the amounts in GBP as instructed.
To this effect, HSBC have asked Ms W to provide copies of her overseas bank 
statements or similar which show the GBP amount that Ms W received having 
transferred the overseas currency back into GBP, so that the losses can be 
calculated. This seems reasonable to me, and I wouldnt expect or instruct HSBC to 
make a payment to Ms W for her claimed losses without Ms W being able to 
document and prove those losses.
This service has also asked Ms W to provide the documents needed to confirm the 
losses shes incurred here. But while Ms W has provided some documents which 
confirm some of the losses that shes claimed, she hasnt yet provided the 
documents necessary to confirm all the losses that she claims.
Specifically, Ms W hasnt been able to provide the necessary information to confirm 
what happened to the first transfer amount for £40,000.
Regarding the second transfer, for £43,000, the information that Ms W has provided 
so far demonstrates the following:
Ms W transferred £43,000 which was received into her overseas account as
481,433.18 units of the local currency.
Approximately three weeks later, Ms W transferred 100,000.00 units of the local
currency out of her account.
That same day, Ms W exchanged 380,639.95 units of the local currency into 
GBP, for which she receives £31,986.55
Considering the above, in regard to the 100,000 units of the local currency that Ms W
transferred from her account, Im satisfied that HSBC shouldnt be instructed to cover 
any losses in regard to that amount. This is because Ms W appears to have used 
that amount in the local currency and not exchanged it back to GBP.
Regarding the 380,639.95 units of the local currency Ms W did exchange back to 
GBP, this equates to 79.06% of the 481,433.18 units of that currency she received 
relating to the transfer of £43,000.
I therefore feel that a reasonable way that Ms Ws confirmed loss could be calculated 
is as the difference between the £31,986.55 she received  having exchanged 
79.06% of the received transfer amount back to GBP  and 79.06% of the original 
transfer amount of £43,000, which is £33,995.80. This loss calculation equates to an 
amount of £2,009.25.
As such, my provisional decision here is that Ill be upholding this complaint in Ms 
Ws favour and instructing HSBC to make a payment to her of £2,009.25 to cover the 
losses she incurred as described above.
However, my provisional decision wont include any instruction to HSBC regarding 
the other transfer amount of £40,000, because Ms W hasnt been able to provide the necessary documents to confirm how much GBP she received upon exchanging the 
amount of local currency received in relation to that £40,000 transfer back to GBP.
Finally, I note that HSBC have already made payments of £75 and £30 to Ms W 
relating to compensation for the trouble and upset that shes incurred here and for 
overseas telephone costs respectively. These payments seem reasonable to me, 
and I wont be provisionally instructing HSBC to do anything more in regard to these 
points.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs W and HSBC the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to issue a 
final decision. Neither party provided any comments for my review, and so I see no reason 
not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint on the basis as outlined above. And I 
therefore confirm that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £2,009.25 to Mrs W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman