DRN-3205886
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) gave 
him unsuitable advice regarding the sale of his Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (FSAVC) plan in 1997. 
Mr Ms is being represented in his complaint. But my decision will refer to him throughout.   
What happened
Mr M received advice from Sun Life in January 1993 to start an FSAVC plan. He was 
already a member of his employers pension scheme. 
Mr Ms plan started in January 1993. He met with an adviser again in July 1993 and 
increased his contribution into the plan. Mr M met with an adviser in July 1994, July 1995. 
And again in May 1997. At each meeting Mr M was advised to invest in the FSAVC plan. 
And each time he decided to increase his contribution into that plan.
In January 2020, Mr M complained to Sun Life. He said he wasnt made aware an Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (AVC) plan was available or that it was likely to provide better value 
for money than the FSAVC plan. 
In their March 2020 final response letter, Sun Life agreed that the advice theyd given Mr M 
wasnt suitable between 1993 and 1995. They said they hadnt made Mr M fully made aware 
of all the options available to him - in particular the full benefits of contributing to his 
employers AVC plan. 
But Sun Life said that the advice theyd given Mr M in 1997 was suitable. They said this was 
because theyd made him aware of the differences between his employers AVC plan and 
the FSAVC plan at this time. And theyd explained the relative advantages and 
disadvantages of the two plans in respect of flexibility, fund choice and mobility. So they 
considered that the FSAVC plan theyd advised in 1997 was suitable for Mr Ms needs. 
Because of this, they capped the compensation theyd offered for the unsuitable advice 
between 1993 and 1995 to the date of the 1997 advice and sale.
Mr M didnt agree with Sun Life. He felt that the advice hed been given in 1997 was also 
unsuitable. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He considered that the 
Reasons Why letter produced by Sun Life after the 1997 advice showed that Sun Life had 
met their obligations to highlight the AVC alternative. And that theyd discussed the 
differences between the AVC and FSAVC options. But he was satisfied that Mr M wouldve 
stayed in the AVC plan if hed joined it in the first place in 1993. To put things right, he 
considered that Sun Life should put Mr M back to the position he wouldve been in if hed 
invested in the AVC arrangement from 1993.
Sun Life disagreed with our investigator. They still felt that the 1997 advice was suitable. 
They didnt believe they should be responsible for any losses as a consequence of Mr Ms 
fully informed decision in 1997. They also referenced a similar case this service had 
investigated. And asked our investigator to point out any evidence that led him to draw 
different conclusions between this case and that one. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this case came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 November 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. But I disagree somewhat with our investigator that Sun 
Life had fully informed Mr M of his AVC options at the time of his 1997 decision to invest in 
the FSAVC plan. Ill explain why.
Mr M has asked to be put into the position he wouldve been in had the incorrect advice not 
been given. Sun Life have agreed that they gave unsuitable advice between 1993 and 1995. 
Their offer to put things right is capped at the date of the 1997 advice. But they dont agree 
that the advice they gave Mr M was unsuitable in 1997. So I need to decide whether or not I 
consider the 1997 advice unsuitable. And if so, what redress Sun Life should pay Mr M. 
I understand that Mr Ms advisor was tied so was only authorised to provide advice on Sun 
Lifes own products.
Expectations from tied advisers before May 1996 
The LAUTRO code of Conduct required a company representative to exercise due skill, care 
and diligence and to deal fairly with investors. This means tied advisers were expected to 
have known, before May 1996, that in-house AVC options could be available to the 
consumer. In addition to highlighting the benefits of the FSAVC, the adviser needed to cover 
the generic benefits of the in-house options, which would include: 
AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC
Added years might have been available under the occupational scheme, but not 
under an FSAVC
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house option
Expectations from tied advisers after May 1996 
In May 1996 Regulatory Update 2 0 (RU20) was issued. This codified the procedures product 
providers were expected to follow in future sales. Its important to note that these werent 
really new requirements. But simply restating what was already there. So after May 1996, 
tied advisers were expected to take the following actions before selling an FSAVC:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes 
Direct the consumer to his employer or the OPS for more information on the in-house 
option
RU20 also refers to the lower charges under an in-house AVC in general terms. It says:Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, reflecting 
economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration expenses by the 
employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely to exert the greatest 
impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the client.
So both before and after May 1996, tied advisers needed to explain the generic differences 
between AVCs and FSAVCs plans to the consumer. And it was known by advisers that the 
charges under the in-house AVCs were likely to be cheaper.
So for the 1993 to 1995 advice, the adviser had to make Mr M aware of the options available 
in his occupational scheme. This included noting that AVCs could potentially offer lower 
charges than the FSAVC. If the adviser didnt know and wasnt in a position to find out the 
specifics of Mr Ms occupational scheme, I would expect them to recommend that he explore 
the options himself with the scheme before considering whether to take out an FSAVC. I 
note that Mr M has confirmed that his employer didnt offer added years as part of the AVC 
scheme.
For the 1997 advice, Sun Life did follow most of the requirements. And set these in their 
Reasons Why letter. It said: We discussed the general differences between AVCs and 
Free Standing AVCs and you feel than an FSAVC would be your best option as this option 
gives you the full fund choice and flexibility/mobility you require. But Ive seen no evidence 
that Mr M was ever advised about the potentially lower charges under an in-house AVC. 
Mr M said that there was no specific mention of the difference in costs between the policy 
and the IHAVC, or that the IHAVC was better value for money. He also said that even 
though the guidelines were updated by the regulator in 1996, it was assumed that the former 
guidelines already formed part of any discussion by insurance firms selling these products. 
So Mr M said that he didnt think it was fair for Sun Life to only offer redress for the 1993 to 
1995 advice. As he felt hed never been advised about the potentially higher charges in his 
FSAVC plan. 
Sun Life said in their final response letter: The plan recommended does address your 
requirements and the documents issued to you explained about how it worked, including the 
charges. They also said about the 1997 advice: As the adviser had discussed the generic 
differences between the In-House AVC and FSAVC, this would have included the 
differences in charges. Therefore we can conclude that Mr M knew about this when he made 
his decision to increase the FSAVC.
While I acknowledge that the documents issued after the recommendations were made may 
have explained the difference in charges, Ive not seen evidence of that. And even if the 
documents Sun Life issued did cover the charges, Im not persuaded that it wouldve been 
clear to Mr M that differences in charges could be so important. And while I can see that Sun 
Life consider that their adviser mustve covered the difference in charges, as hed discussed 
the generic differences between AVC and FSAVC plans, Im no evidence that this was the 
case. Mr M said the difference in costs wasnt covered. So Im not persuaded that Mr M was 
ever advised about the potential for lower charges under his in-house AVC scheme. And 
therefore I dont consider that Mr M made a fully informed decision to contribute to an 
FSAVC plan, rather than his employers AVC plan, after the 1997 advice.
So Im persuaded that there is a crucial difference between Mr Ms complaint and the 
previous case Sun Life referenced. That is that I consider that the differences in charges 
werent made clear to Mr M, where it appears that they were in the other case. And that is 
the reason I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint here.
Putting things rightI intend to require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to undertake a 
redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating 
the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property 
index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Sun Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%. So, making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Response to my provisional decision
Sun Life didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr M had nothing further to add.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to undertake a redress 
calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the 
amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index 
isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Sun Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%. So, making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should take 
the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman