DRN-4212154
The complaint
X is unhappy that Santander UK Plc made the decision to no longer provide banking 
services to them and closed their account. X is also unhappy that Santander wont release 
money to them that was present in their account at the time of the account closure. 
What happened
To briefly summarise: In August 2022, X discovered that Santander had closed their account 
and were no longer willing to provide banking services to them. This meant that X couldnt 
access the money that had been present in the account. 
X received a letter from Santander which explained they would need visit a Santander 
branch with evidence to verify they were entitled to the money that had been present in the 
account at the time of closure. This included a reimbursement from an airline company for 
tickets purchased on a credit card X held with a third-party credit provider. 
X visited a Santander branch and showed branch staff an email from the airline provider 
which they felt confirmed that they were entitled to the reimbursed funds. But Santander 
required X to send that email to their head office to authorise Xs entitlement to the funds. X 
wasnt willing to do this, and so raised a complaint.
Santander responded to X and confirmed their right to choose to not offer banking services 
to them and reiterated that X would need to allow the email from the airline to be reviewed 
by their head office to allow a decision to be made on whether they were entitled to the 
reimbursed money. X wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so they referred their 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Santander had 
acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. X 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In much the same way as an account holder can choose to close any accounts they might 
hold with a bank, so a bank is entitled to decide whether its willing to offer, or continue to 
offer, services to any new applicant or existing account holder.
In this instance, Santander made the decision to no longer offer banking service to X, and it 
closed Xs account with immediate effect. This is a commercial decision that Santander are 
entitled to make. And Im satisfied that the terms of Xs Santander account included that 
Santander could close the account with immediate effect in certain circumstances.
Santander arent obliged to explain to X exactly why they chose to close their account. But 
Santander have provided a detailed explanation of why they made the decision to this 
service. And, having reviewed the information provided by Santander, Im satisfied that it 
was reasonable for Santander to choose to no longer offer banking services to X and that 
Santander acted within their terms when closing Xs account with immediate effect.
X is unhappy that Santander wont release money that was paid into their account by an 
airline as a reimbursement of a ticket that X bought using a third-party (i.e., non-Santander) 
credit account. 
But Santander havent said that theyre unwilling to reimburse this money to X. Instead, 
theyve explained to X that their branch staff arent authorised to decide whether the email 
from the airline does reasonably entitle X to the reimbursed money. And theyve asked X to 
forward the email to the relevant team at their head office, who are authorised to make such 
a decision.
Santanders position here seems reasonable to me, especially in consideration of the 
reasons that Santander have provided to this service as to why theyre no longer willing to 
provide banking services to X. 
Additionally, I feel that X could and reasonably should have mitigated against the ongoing 
nature of this complaint by simply forwarding the email in question to Santander as 
requested. And Im also satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Santander to continue to 
require X to send the email to their head office before they will consider allowing him access 
to the money that was reimbursed into his Santander account from the airline. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly or done anything 
wrong here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Santander to take any action. I trust that X will understand, given what Ive explained, why 
Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman