DRN-2052637
The complaint
Miss C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited didnt compensate her enough after 
poor service and a delay in her boiler being fixed under her home emergency insurance 
policy.
What happened
Miss C has a property which she lets out to tenants. When they reported that the boiler 
wasnt working, she claimed on her HomeCare policy and an engineer was arranged to visit. 
But the earliest appointment was six days later. The engineer didnt attend on that day, so it 
was rescheduled to the next available appointment, five days later. The engineer arrived and 
said hed fixed the boiler, but Miss Cs tenants said it still wasnt working and water was 
found leaking from it. An emergency engineer visited to make the boiler safe and another 
engineer visited the next day who diagnosed the problem. It was fixed the day after with a 
new part fitted, but this was around fourteen days after the claim was first made.
Miss C was dissatisfied, so complained to British Gas. She said her tenants had been 
without hot water and central heating for two weeks which had caused a great deal of 
distress and discomfort. She said it had caused her stress personally by having to deal with 
irate tenants and British Gas  who she found unhelpful. Miss C said both she and her 
tenants had to take time off work on several dates to be available for the engineers and 
shes unhappy she had to spend more time complaining to British Gas and following it up 
with this service. British Gas accepted the service had fallen short and offered £90 
compensation, but Miss C didnt think this was enough.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He acknowledged there had been some failings 
and it would have been a difficult experience for Miss C, but said British Gas had shown that 
the engineer had visited the property and couldnt get access. He thought it had fairly 
compensated Miss C for the service she received.
Miss C didnt agree and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for repairs to Miss Cs boiler and controls, and central heating  or 
a contribution to a replacement if it cant be repaired. Miss Cs policy says that on visiting the 
customer, British Gas will carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a 
reasonable time, unless something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which 
case well let you know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit. 
So when Miss C made her claim, I think she could have expected the boiler to be repaired 
within a reasonable time and to be given a time when British Gas could visit. The policy 
doesnt define what it considers to be a reasonable time, but insurers should deal with claims 
promptly and fairly. So Ive considered what a reasonable time might be to deal with the 
claim and whether it was handled promptly and fairly. 
Miss C was initially unhappy that she was given an appointment for an engineer to attend six 
days after making the claim. Ive considered whether attending after six days was a 
reasonable time and in the circumstances here I think it was. British Gas has explained that 
the response time for emergency appointments can vary depending on how many claims it 
receives and how many engineers it has available. It also says it assesses the 
circumstances of its customers to ensure the most vulnerable customers are prioritised. Ive 
seen no evidence that the initial delay of six days was caused by an avoidable delay or error 
by British Gas.
British Gas provided information to show the engineer did arrive at the property on the first 
visit. Having looked at this information, Im satisfied the engineer did attend, but received no 
answer when ringing the buzzer. 
British Gas accepts its engineer didnt call before arrival as he should have done. Had this 
happened, its possible that a further visit wouldnt have been needed. A further visit was 
arranged and this took place five days later. But another engineer needed to come back the 
day after that, as Miss Cs tenants still had problems with the boiler and found it leaking 
water. The problem was then diagnosed and the boiler was repaired two days later, at which 
point the tenants had been without hot water and heating for around two weeks. 
Although I dont think British Gas was at fault for the initial wait of six days, it could have 
resolved things more quickly after that. British Gas accepts the service fell short of what Miss 
C could reasonably have expected. It would have caused her some distress and 
inconvenience and I appreciate it would have put her in a difficult position with her tenants. 
But I think British Gas offer of £90 compensation is reasonable, taking into account that any 
delay was for a short period of days. And I can only take into account the impact of any 
delay on Miss C as the policyholder. So I cant ask British Gas to make an award for the 
tenants being without hot water and heating for this time. Nor can I make an award for the 
time Miss C has spent making a complaint and referring it to this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman