DRN-2720919
The complaint
Mr R complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited withdrew cover on a claim he 
made on a legal expenses insurance policy and didnt make any settlement to him when it 
did so.
Where I refer to Acromas Insurance Company Limited within this decision, it includes its 
agents and claim handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr R holds a legal expenses insurance policy provided by Acromas. He wanted to take legal 
action for medical negligence and made a claim on the policy. 
Acromas initially accepted cover for the claim and appointed solicitors to act for Mr R. After 
undertaking enquiries and obtaining information, the solicitors advised Acromas that the 
costs of pursuing the claim were disproportionate to its value. Acromas declined to continue 
covering Mr Rs legal costs.
Mr R complained to Acromas. He said that the terms and conditions of the policy said that if 
Acromas withdrew cover during the course of the claim, it would pay him the amount he was 
claiming from the other party. Acromas rejected the complaint and Mr R referred it to our 
service.
Our investigator thought Acromas had acted fairly and in accordance with the policy terms 
and conditions. Mr R didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In common with many legal expenses insurance policy, Mr Rs policy requires that, in order 
for a claim to be covered, it needs to have reasonable prospects of success. This is defined 
in the terms and conditions as Where we consider there is a 51% and above chance of 
succeeding with your claim and enforcing any award and that it would be reasonable to 
advise any private paying client in the same circumstances to pursue the claim.
On receipt of the claim from Mr R, Acromas sought legal advice on the prospects of success. 
This assessment indicated there was a greater than 51% chance of the claim being 
successful and that it was proportionate to proceed. Acromas appointed solicitors to act on 
Mr Rs behalf. The solicitors also provided updates to Acromas on the ongoing prospects of 
success and proportionality of continuing the claim.
It isnt disputed that the appointed solicitors informed Acromas, after further enquiries had 
been carried out including the receipt of expert advice, that while the claim may have 
continued to have a greater than 51% chance of success, it was no longer proportionate to 
continue with the claim. Legal costs were estimated at up to £90,000, while the likely court 
award was estimated to be between £8,000 and £10,000. When an offer to settle the claim 
was rejected by the other party, Acromas withdrew cover for further legal expenses.
I think Acromass actions here were reasonable. It had been informed that the potential legal 
costs were up to ten times what the court would award if the claim was successful. The 
solicitors had said it wouldnt recommend that a privately paying client continue with the 
claim in those circumstances. Mr R hasnt provided any differing legal opinion to dispute this. 
I also havent seen any suggestion that the assessment made by the solicitors would have 
been obviously wrong to a layperson or included incorrect material facts. I think Acromas 
could fairly rely on the advice from the solicitors when it withdrew cover for further costs.
Mr R points to a condition within the policy which says Acromas is entitled to decide not to 
commence or to terminate a legal claim at any time and pay you up to or equal to the 
amount that you are claiming for or the amount being claimed against you. He says that as 
Acromas withdrew cover on the grounds that it was no longer proportionate to pursue the 
legal claim, it should pay the value of the claim in accordance with this condition.
Acromas says it isnt possible to do this as no definitive value for Mr Rs legal claim was 
established. It says in cases of medical negligence, it can be very difficult to establish a 
definitive value for the claim. The potential court award was between £8,000 and £10,000 
when cover was withdrawn. An offer to the other party to settle the case for £12,000 was 
rejected by the other party. I find myself in agreement with Acromas here  I cant see that a 
specific value was ever identified for Mr Rs claim. I dont think that an estimate of a potential 
award by the court in the event of a successful claim is a definite value for the claim. Its an 
indication of what the award might be.
Mr R observes that in a claim for personal injury or medical negligence, such a value wont 
be available. However, the policy he claims on is not limited to cover for personal injury or 
medical negligence. Its a fairly wide ranging legal expenses insurance policy which provides 
cover for property, contractual, employment and other matters. It seems to me that there are 
areas which the policy does cover where a value for the claim would be identifiable. The 
condition referenced above could apply to such claims, but not Mr Rs. The policy requires a 
definitive value for the claim to be known (or identifiable), not an estimate.  I dont think its 
reasonable to expect that every condition could be applied to every claim. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman