DRN-2475335
The complaint
Mr H complains London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) debited money from his 
credit account they said had been credited to him by mistake. 
What happened
Around May 2020 Mr H was told his account was overdrawn by over £500. 
LCCU said his balance had been reduced due to a system failure which had inadvertently 
increased Mr Hs balance after a few separate transactions had been made. LCCU said they 
became aware of the errors during an audit they carried out in April 2020. 
Mr H says he asked LCCU to provide details of the transactions but never received them. He 
was unhappy he had to take out a loan to repay the money back to LCCU.
Mr H raised a formal complaint with LCCU. He felt it was unfair he should have to repay the 
money.
Mr H didnt receive a response, so he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended we uphold Mr Hs complaint. Based on the information 
available to him, he said there was no evidence to show LCCU had ever provided Mr H with 
a breakdown of the charges to the account. He also said it was unfair for LCCU to debit the 
whole amount from Mr Hs account in one go and this left him in a difficult position 
financially,
LCCU didnt respond to our Investigator so the complaint was passed to me. 
LCCU then provided further comments and information for me to consider. Including a copy 
of a loan agreement signed by Mr H in May 2020 and copy statements of Mr Hs account.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 December 2020. In my provisional findings, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im minded to uphold Mr Hs complaint but for different 
reasons to our investigator. Ill explain why.
LCCU has provided copies of statements Mr Hs account and I can see where the issues 
described have occurred, meaning his account was credited rather debited. As Mr H has had 
benefit of money that he wasnt intended to have, I dont think its unreasonable for LCCU to 
claim the money back when they recognised the error. 
But I would expect them to treat Mr H fairly in doing so. LCCU have provided a copy of an 
agreement for a loan set up so Mr H could repay the money in instalments. The agreement 
shows the loan is interest free - and I cant see anything from this or the statements that 
persuades me Mr H incurred any charges as a result of the error. 
The agreement shows the repayments were around £25 per month and I can see from the 
account statements the total amount being credited to his account to restore his bank 
balance. So, I think LCCU have acted fairly here.
LCCU accept their system error caused the balance to be credited rather than debited. But I 
dont think theyve done enough to acknowledge the inconvenience caused to Mr H. The 
transactions were reversed in April 2020, but I can see the loan was not paid to Mr Hs 
account until around four weeks later. Although I can see a conversation took place between 
Mr H and LCCU shortly before this, I cant see they contacted Mr H in advance to let him 
know the money was being taken  or why. So, although they set up the loan, I think the 
initial impact of finding a large sum of money missing from his account, and being without 
that amount, must have been quite distressing for Mr H. I can also see Mr H requested for 
detail regarding the transactions from LCCU  but I cant see they ever provided this to Mr H.
Putting things right
Taking everything into consideration I think its reasonable LCCU pay Mr H £175 
compensation as I think this fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience, he has been 
caused.
LCCU should also remove any negative or adverse information on Mr Hs credit file related 
to this matter. This should be from when they corrected the error and recovered the money 
to when they transferred the loan into Mr Hs account.
LCCU hasnt sent me any further comments or information.
Mr H reiterated his earlier points about LCCU but did not provide any new information for me 
to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision and reasoning remain the same to what I explained in my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I direct London Community Credit Union Limited to:
Pay Mr H £150 compensation.
Remove any negative or adverse information on Mr Hs credit file related to this 
matter. This should be from when London Community Credit Union Limited corrected 
the error, and recovered the money, to when they transferred the loan into Mr Hs 
account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman