DRN-1749198
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited declined his claim after he damaged 
and then lost his mobile phone. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr O contacted Assurant to make a claim for his damaged phone. A few 
days later he called again to say he had lost the phone. 
Assurant reviewed the claim but decided not to accept it. It said Mr O had given different 
accounts of how the phone had been lost. So, it wasnt sure which version of events had 
taken place. 
Mr O was unhappy with this response, so he brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt think Assurant had treated Mr O unfairly. He 
was satisfied Mr O had told Assurant the phone may have been left in a delivery companys 
bag (so it could be returned to Assurant) in the car with his girlfriend whilst he was in an 
interview. But he had also told it that he may have taken the phone out of the delivery bag 
and taken it with him to the interview even though it couldnt be used. 
Mr O disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He says he 
hasnt been treated fairly and he doesnt know how the phone was lost. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr O feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
When reviewing this complaint my role is to see if Assurant applied the policy terms in a fair 
and reasonable way. Assurant has declined the claim because of the different versions of 
the event Mr O has said led to him losing his phone. I cant know for sure exactly how the 
phone was lost. And it isnt my role to decide exactly what happened. But for Assurant to 
fairly decline this claim it has to show Mr O gave it different accounts of how his phone was 
lost. 
 
The terms and conditions provided by Assurant say the policy will not be effective if Mr O 
fails to take reasonable care to answer questions honestly and to the best of his knowledge. 
Having listened to the calls provided, Im satisfied he initially told Assurant that his device 
was lost in between him leaving his house, going for an interview and sending his damaged 
phone to Assurant. 
Following some further questions from Assurant, he then said that his girlfriend dropped him 
off for an interview and he thinks he may have left the mobile phone in the delivery 
companys bag in the car. 
In a later conversation he added that his girlfriend waited for him in the car whilst he was in 
the interview. Assurant told Mr O it couldnt accept the claim because his girlfriend being in 
the car wouldve prevented the phone from being stolen and meant it was less likely the 
phone couldve been lost in the circumstances Mr O had described. 
During both conversations, Mr O told Assurant he couldve taken the phone out of the 
delivery companys bag into the interview with him in his jacket pocket. Assurant told Mr O it 
couldnt accept the claim because there wasnt an opportunity for the phone to be stolen and 
it was unlikely it fell out of the delivery companys bag and out of the car without being 
noticed. And I dont believe it was unreasonable for Assurant to question why Mr O took a 
phone  which he said didnt work at all  out of the delivery companys bag in his car and 
into his jacket pocket for the interview.
 
Therefore, on balance, I dont think its unreasonable for Assurant to have concluded that it 
cannot be sure what led to the phone being lost. And that the different versions of the event 
Mr O provided mean that its  on balance - unlikely the phone went missing in the 
circumstances he described. 
So, I believe Assurants decision to decline the claim was reasonable here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman