DRN-3353312
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that after rejecting a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy, 
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited refused to reimburse legal costs they 
incurred with their own solicitor.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have a home insurance policy which includes a section for legal expenses 
insurance underwritten by DAS. They made a claim on the legal expenses cover relating to 
action taken against them by the local authority relating to the height of trees on their 
property. 
DAS appointed solicitors to consider the claim. When the solicitors advised that the claim 
didnt fall within the cover provided, DAS rejected the claim. Mr and Mrs J complained about 
this and DAS provided a final response to the complaint in June 2020.
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs J wrote to DAS advising that they had instructed their own 
solicitor, who had reached a compromise with the local authority regarding the height of their 
trees. They asked DAS to reimburse legal fees of £1,800 which they had paid but DAS said 
it would not consider these costs.
When they brought the complaint to this service, our investigator said we couldnt investigate 
the issues relating to the complaint being rejected in 2020 as it was out of time  Mr and 
Mrs J had six months from the final response sent in June 2020 to bring the complaint to us, 
but didnt do so until May 2021. She said we could consider the later decision not to refund 
their legal costs, as that was brought to us within six months of the final response DAS sent 
on that complaint. But she didnt think this part of the complaint should be upheld. She said 
there was no insured peril, and costs would not be payable if DAS had not agreed to them in 
advance.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with the investigators view. They said all of the complaint should 
be looked at; it wasnt too late to complain about the original decision to reject the claim. And 
they said he complaint wasnt just about DAS, it was also about the company that provided 
their home insurance  they had lengthy correspondence with DAS and with the home 
insurer. 
As Mr and Mrs J didnt accept that we could not look at all of their complaint, I issued a 
decision dealing with our jurisdiction to investigate the complaint. I explained that we can 
only look at the actions of DAS, not the actions of their home insurer. And I said we cant 
consider the original decision to reject the claim as Mr and Mrs J didnt complain within six 
months of when DAS issued its final response to that complaint. 
Mr J has now explained that he and his wife both had serious health issues. I appreciate this 
would have been very difficult for them but I dont think that prevented them from bringing 
their complaint to us in time. They continued to pursue matters with the home insurer and 
DAS; they could have referred the complaint to us. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have only considered how DAS responded when Mr and Mrs J contacted it again in 2021 
asking about the legal costs. If they provided fresh information about the claim itself, 
showing why it should have been covered, then Id expect DAS to have reconsidered the 
claim. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
we will pay costs and expenses for your legal rights in a civil action or arrange mediation for
a dispute relating to material property you own (including your home) following:  b) any
legal nuisance (meaning any unlawful interference with your use or enjoyment of your home
or some right over, or in connection with it) or trespass, provided that you are responsible for
the first £250 of any claim
They also say we will not cover the following  2) any costs and expenses incurred before
our written acceptance of a claim
To be covered, Mr and Mrs J need to show DAS should have reviewed the claim because 
this was an action for legal nuisance or trespass, as set out in the policy term above. So Ive 
considered what fresh information they provided and whether this should have led DAS to 
change its position.
Mr and Mrs J say DAS originally referred the claim to a solicitor who wasnt familiar with the 
relevant area of law and his advice was flawed. And they say their solicitor resolved the 
matter quickly. But they didnt provide any fresh legal advice explaining why the original 
decision was wrong or why the claim should be covered. The fact that their solicitor was able 
to reach a compromise with the local authority doesnt in itself mean the original decision 
was wrong, or that this was a claim about a legal nuisance or trespass. I dont think there 
was any new information that would have led DAS to change its position.
In order for any cover to be provided under the policy Mr and Mrs J would need to show 
theres an insured peril. As they havent shown there is an insured peril, there was no reason 
for DAS to review the claim or agree to pay their solicitors costs. They incurred those 
expenses without any agreement from DAS, who had not authorised them. 
In these circumstances DAS decision not to cover the costs was in line with the policy terms 
and was fair. I appreciate this whole situation has been difficult for Mr and Mrs J. But I cant 
direct DAS to cover their legal costs in circumstances where the dispute is simply not one 
thats covered by the policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman