DRN-3029864
The complaint
Mr M complains about the level of service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard in relation to his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr Ms credit card account was closed by Barclays in late 2019. Since then, he has 
experienced some difficulties with the service he has received from Barclays and has raised 
numerous complaints with them relating to this account. Mr M asked us to look into the 
following issues as part of this complaint:
couldnt download statements which he urgently needed to access
Equifax and Clearscore credit reports werent updated
didnt get a response within 24-hours to secure messages on a number of occasions
didnt receive two final response letters to his complaint
asked for excessive information when logging into online banking
told there was a small credit balance on his account, which was incorrect
didnt receive a call back when told he would, and he had to wait longer than he was 
initially informed when calling Barclays
online services were still available after he was told that he wouldnt have access
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had acted fairly in respect of the error with the credit 
balance and their delay in correcting that mistake. So, he asked Barclays to pay Mr M £50 in 
compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused him.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. Mr M made the following comments:
people rely on bank statements as a form of ID, so it doesnt matter that Barclays 
offered alternatives
Barclays admitted there was a delay in updating customers credit files, so theyve 
acted unfairly
if Barclays say they will respond within 24-hours to secure messages they should 
simply reply immediately
the issue with not receiving post from Barclays has been ongoing and it is 
inconvenient for Mr M to have to chase these letters or ask for them to be emailed
it is irrelevant that Mr M has been successful in logging into online banking, the issue 
is the excessive information that is requested each time he needs to log in
the small credit balance is an issue Mr M has tried to resolve with Barclays on 
multiple occasions
having to wait over ninety minutes for Barclays to answer the phone is not an 
acceptable level of customer service
Mr M can still access online services seven months after the balance was paid off 
even though he received a letter from Barclays stating the account would be 
inaccessible within 60 days of the balance being paid off 
Mr M would like an apology from Barclays and compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for largely the 
same reasons, which Ive detailed below. 
Statement
I understand that Mr M urgently required evidence for his employer to confirm the 
identification of his home address, and a credit card statement was a form of identification 
that was acceptable to them. Mr M didnt have time to wait for a paper statement to be 
posted out by Barclays and there was a known issue with online statements, so Mr M had to 
reach an alternative arrangement with his employer.
I appreciate that this caused inconvenience to Mr M however, the purpose of a statement is 
to confirm account transactions and not to verify someones identification. A credit card 
statement might be acceptable proof of identification in some circumstances, but it is not 
Barclays responsibility to provide address verification to an employer, so I dont agree that 
they have done anything wrong here. 
In any event, Barclays apologised for the inconvenience caused and paid £25 in 
compensation to Mr M, so I wont be asking them to do anything further.
Credit reports
Lenders usually report account information to the credit reference agencies a month in 
arrears. The date will be different for each lender and it is typically takes about another week 
for the agencies to update their records. I cant see anything to suggest that Barclays were 
late in providing this information or that there was any error in the information that they 
provided, so I dont think theyve done anything wrong here.
Barclays have told us that Equifax reported a delay in updating customers credit files in late 
2020, so it is possible this may have affected Mr Ms credit reports. However, this would not 
be Barclays error, so again I am unable to find that theyve done anything wrong in relation 
to the credit reports.
Secure messaging
Barclays promised to respond within 24 hours to Mr Ms secure messages but didnt respond 
to his messages on 21, 23 and 27 December 2020 until 28 December 2020. Barclays have 
explained their secure messaging team is unable to correspond once a complaint has been 
escalated to customer relations for a full investigation.
Mr M had raised a complaint with Barclays on 18 December, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for them not to respond to his complaint or messages immediately, without 
having the chance to investigate the complaint. Additionally, the messages were sent over the festive period and this wouldve also had an impact on Barclays ability to respond 
immediately. So, Ive not found that Barclays have treated Mr M unfairly in this instance.
Letters not received 
I understand it must be extremely frustrating for Mr M not to receive letters from Barclays 
and I have addressed this matter before in a previous final decision for Mr M.  I dont doubt 
he has never received these letters, but Ive had a look through the information Barclays 
provided and I can see that there is a record and reference on their system for all letters they 
have sent to him - including the missing ones. I have also checked that the address they 
hold for him is correct and I can confirm it is.
On balance, I think it is likely that the letters were posted but never delivered. Barclays have 
apologised to Mr M and resent the missing letters, so I will not be asking Barclays to do 
anything further in this regard.
Online security
Mr M told us logging into his online account is a time-consuming process and he feels he is 
being asked for excessive amounts of information to log in. Barclays told us they constantly 
review their online service to make it as secure as possible whilst trying to keep it as user 
friendly as they can.
Ive reviewed the amount of information required to log into the online service and I consider 
it to be reasonable to ensure the protection of their customers safety against fraudulent 
activity. While I appreciate this might be frustrating for Mr M, Barclays have no plans to 
change their process and I wont be asking them to review it.
Small credit balance and customer service
Barclays provided incorrect information to Mr M about the credit balance on his account in 
January this year. They asked him to contact them in relation to this matter and from the 
information provided to me I can see he made numerous attempts to contact them both by 
phone and by sending secure messages.
I can see that at one stage when Mr M called Barclays to try and resolve this issue, he was 
told the hold time would be 30 minutes. However, he ended up waiting for approximately 90 
minutes. And on another occasion, he was promised a call back, but this never happened. 
Barclays recognised hold times were longer than they would like and said this was due to
the impact of the pandemic, however I think it is unreasonable that this matter impacted so 
much of Mr Ms time through no fault of his own.  
Barclays apologised for their error and explained that although the cash balance of the 
account was in credit, the purchase balance was in debit, so no refund was due to Mr M. But 
this didnt happen until mid-February, almost a month after Mr M received the initial letter.
I think receiving this letter was confusing for Mr M, and I can see that he had some trouble in 
contacting Barclays despite his efforts, so for the inconvenience and distress this caused, I 
think Barclays should pay Mr M £50 in compensation.
Use of online servicesBarclays told Mr M his account would be inaccessible within 60 days of the balance being 
paid off, however he is still able to access it via the online service and he continues to 
receive monthly emails informing him that his statement is available to view. 
Barclays explained that as there is still activity on the account Mr M will still have access and
statements will continue to generate so he can see whats happening on the account. They 
said there needed to be a period of 60 days with no activity on the account for the account to 
be fully closed and become inaccessible to Mr M. 
Mr M said that although this may be the case, he was not responsible for the activity on the 
account and would like the account to be closed once and for all.
I dont think it is unreasonable for Barclays to allow customers to continue to have access to 
their account while there continues to be activity on it. Barclays paid compensation into Mr 
Ms account in September which is the reason for the recent activity. So, although I dont 
intend to uphold this part of the complaint, I would ask Barclays to be mindful of paying any 
further compensation into Mr Ms personal account to ensure the credit card account doesnt 
remain open for any longer than it needs to.
Conclusion
I can see that the closure of Mr Ms account has led to several other issues that have caused 
him upset and inconvenienced him. There is no doubt there have been some service failings 
by Barclays along the way, including issues with call backs and long hold times. I can see 
that dealing with these issues has been frustrating and time consuming for Mr M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard to pay £50 to Mr M to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused 
to him in January this year when he was informed there was a small credit balance on his 
account.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman