DRN-3788138
The complaint and what happened 
Miss C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont fully reimburse her loss of £14,546.21 when 
she fell victim to a bank impersonation scam. Miss C made four card payments (£8,500) and 
three faster payments to the scammer (£6,046.21).  
Monzo recovered £6,044.20 from the beneficiary bank in relation to the faster payments but 
declined to make any further reimbursement. Our investigator upheld the complaint as she 
was satisfied Monzo ought to have intervened in the third card transaction. It was the third 
transaction in a matter of minutes to a crypto exchange which she found was unusual.  She 
recommended Monzo reimburse £5,500 of the card transactions and £2.01 remaining from 
the faster payments and add 8% simple interest on those sums. 
Monzo said the third payment didnt flag as suspicious as multiple payments to crypto 
exchanges arent unusual or indicative of foul play, and is a pattern is sees with genuine 
transactions. It also said as Miss C completed the steps necessary to make the payments, it 
isnt liable for them under the Payment Services Regulations. 
The matter has been referred to me for review and determination.  Miss C also made us 
aware that she hadnt been paid the recovered sum. Monzo has since provided evidence to 
show this has now been deposited into her account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the key points and arguments above, I would like to 
reassure the parties that I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so I 
agree with the investigator for the following reasons:
Im satisfied Miss C authorised the transactions, even if she was tricked into believing 
she was speaking with Monzo and believed her account had been compromised. 
Whilst she didnt intend for her money to go to scammers, and she was told 
authorising the transactions would trick the supposed fraudster, as they were 
authorised, she is initially presumed liable for the loss.
Monzo ought to be aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring 
accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual 
transactions or other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud; and in some 
situations, make additional checks before processing payments or declined them 
altogether to protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams. 
Miss C authorised the first transaction to a crypto exchange for £2,500 at 13.11, a 
second transaction at 13.13 for £500 and a third at 13.15 for £1,000. I accept there 
can be legitimate, multiple transactions in one day. But Monzo hasnt shown this is 
typical account behaviour for Miss C. These payments were made within minutes of 
each other. Like the investigator, I question if someone was intending to legitimately 
invest or buy cryptocurrency of £3,500, why it would be necessary or even desirable 
to do so in such a fashion, rather than in one go. 
Such a pattern is something we often see in scams - payments in quick succession 
and of differing amounts, to see what withdrawals will be allowed through. I therefore 
agree with the investigator that Monzos security alert systems ought to have 
triggered at the point of the third payment and it paused pending further intervention, 
such as making enquiries or providing a scam warning. 
I understand Monzos systems did ask for the purpose of some of the payments. But 
it appears this was only in relation to the faster payments not the card payments. And 
so Im not aware of any warning being provided at the time of the third card payment 
being made. 
Had Monzo carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Miss C about the 
payments, I have no reason to doubt she would have explained what she was doing. 
It could then have told her that it hadnt contacted her or sent her any texts asking 
her to confirm payments or contact its fraud department. Im satisfied this would have 
stopped her in tracks, and she would have realised she hadnt been really speaking 
with her bank. Im satisfied this would have prevented further losses of £11,546.21.
Monzo was able to recover £6,044.20 from a beneficiary bank, leaving a loss of 
£5,502.01 which Im satisfied the bank should and could have prevented.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Ltd to reimburse Miss C:
£5,502.01 representing the losses I have found it should have prevented, and
It should add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of the payments, until the 
date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman