DRN-2022218
 
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the total loss settlement Advantage Insurance Company Limited
paid when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M made a claim to his insurer, Advantage in July 2019 following an incident. Advantage
said it wasnt economical to repair Mr Ms car. So it settled his claim by paying the market
value for his car. This was £8,666.
Mr M said he paid over £15,000 for his car in December 2018. He was very unhappy with
the valuation Advantage paid. So he asked us to look at his complaint.
Our investigator checked four of the available main motor trade guides and was able to
obtain four valuations. However, one of the valuations provided was out of kilter with the
others, so was discounted. But of the three remaining guides, she found the average came
to just under £8,750. So she thought Advantage should increase the market value settlement
by £84.
Mr M didnt agree. He said we havent considered the evidence hes provided us with to
show his car is worth more than the amount Advantage has paid.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 June 2020. I thought the market value Advantage had 
paid was reasonable. I said I would consider any new representations Mr M might want to 
make. 
I havent received a reply from either party. So the case has been passed back to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision remains along the same lines 
as my provisional decision. 
Most cars depreciate in value. I can see that the difference between the price Mr M said he
paid for his car in December 2018 and the market value of it in July 2019 is significantly less.
We dont decide a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation
reasonably and in line with the policy. Mr Ms policy with Advantage says the most it will pay
in the event of a claim is up to the market value of his car at the date of loss. It defines the
term market value as follows:
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary
allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and the circumstances in which you
bought it.
I think Advantage explained that the amount it would pay wouldnt necessarily be the same
as the declared value Mr M gave when he bought his policy.
We find the main motor trade guides are more reliable than adverts for deciding a valuation
for car. They are based on national research and likely selling prices for a car of the same
make, model, age, condition and mileage as Mr Ms. Advertisements tend to be less reliable
as they fluctuate greatly and have a margin to negotiate the price downward by the seller.
We think its fair to rely on more than one trade guide if available. Advantage relied on two
guides to reach its valuation of £8,666. Our investigator was able to obtain valuations from
four of the main motor trade guides. However, one of them was out of kilter with the others.
Where this happens  irrespective of whether it is lower or higher  we think is reasonable to
disregard that valuation.
The correct sums for the three main guides were: £8,520, £8,750 and £8,910 using the
additional available guide. So the average came to a little more than Advantage paid at
£8,727 (A difference of £61). This is because the value used by the investigator for the
£8,750 was for September instead of July  the date of loss.  And both the investigator and 
Advantage used the retail transacted value for this guide - but the correct valuation of 
£8,750 was the market valuation for July 2019.
So as the sum Advantage paid is within the range of the guides, I dont think the amount
Advantage paid is unreasonable.
Mr M provided a screenshot of examples of cars for sale which he said were sold for the
asking price. This information is from the trade guide we disregarded as being out of kilter
with the others. Mr M says the top two valuations of £11,599 and £14,898 are the sold
prices. He says his car had alloy wheels which cost an additional £1,500. Mr M believes this
guide closely matches the value of his car, so he feels it should be taken into account.
The first example is for a car of the same age but with just over half the mileage of Mr Ms
car. The second example is for a younger car with around a third of the mileage of Mr Ms
car. The age and mileage of a car can have a significant impact on the market value. So
overall I think its reasonable to rely on the three main motor trade guides that were in kilter
with each other.
I understand Mr M will be disappointed. But I think Advantage reached it valuation fairly and 
in line with the policy. So I dont think it needs to increase the total loss settlement it paid 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman