DRN-4401666
The complaint
Mr C complains about what happened when he asked Nationwide Building Society to 
remortgage the property he owns jointly with his spouse. He said Nationwide delayed his 
application, then rejected it. He said he would have to pay a higher interest rate now. 
What happened
Mr C said that after he applied to Nationwide to remortgage, he received an email which said 
he could fill out any forms online, and upload documents. He used this portal to supply the 
requested documents to Nationwide. But he said Nationwide was now saying it had closed 
his application down, because hed failed to supply requested documents. Nationwide had 
told him that this portal was only for sending documents to its legal firm, and Mr C hadnt 
replied to Nationwides own request for documents. 
Mr C said hed called Nationwide, and it accepted it had received documents hed uploaded 
to the portal. And hed been given conflicting information as to whether the property needed 
to be transferred into his sole name, for him to take out this mortgage by himself. Mr C told 
us Nationwide accepted it had made a mistake, which he felt was an admission of liability. 
Mr C said hed sent emails chasing progress on the mortgage, with no reply. Then he got his 
valuation fee back, without any explanation. Mr C said that since then Nationwide had sent 
conflicting letters about its final position. 
Mr C said with the change in interest rates, Nationwides action in cancelling his application 
had cost him thousands. But it had only offered him £100 in compensation. Mr C wanted us 
to investigate, and award the correct level of compensation due. 
Nationwide said Mr C applied for a mortgage in his sole name at the start of June 2022. It 
received mortgage statements from him on 28 July, and asked for fresh statements on 9 
August. It didnt get a response, and it said Mr Cs application was cancelled on 22 August. 
Nationwide didnt think that was a mistake. 
Nationwide said it had mistakenly sent Mr C two final response letters. In one, it had said to 
Mr C that his last 12 months mortgage statements were never provided in a format that was 
acceptable or for the correct time period. It said statements he provided in late July 2022 
only covered a 6 month period. Nationwide said it had asked again for this information, and 
Mr C just said hed already sent it. Nationwide said it did warn Mr C that his application 
would be closing down, and it was later cancelled. 
In the other final response letter, Nationwide said it had emailed Mr C, asking him to supply 
documents by email, by post, or in branch. Nationwide accepted it had wrongly told Mr C 
that it had received some documents hed uploaded to the portal, and it was sorry about that. 
It said the portal was just for uploading documents that its solicitors needed to see. But in 
this letter, Nationwide also said Mr Cs application was cancelled because he didnt supply 
requested documents in the requested format. 
Nationwide said it was sorry Mr C had been given wrong information, and it would like to pay 
him £100 compensation for that. But it said he hadnt been supplying documents in the way 
it had requested, and he had never sent the revised mortgage information Nationwide had 
requested. So Nationwide said it wouldnt honour the rate that Mr C was originally offered. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said whilst she understood 
the confusion, she had to take into account that Nationwide had set out how it wanted 
documents to be supplied to it, and Mr C hadnt sent the documents in that way. The portal 
he was using to upload documents only linked to Nationwides solicitors, not to Nationwide 
itself. Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had to do more than it had offered. 
Mr C disagreed. He said that there was clear evidence of mis-representation as well as 
admissions of liabilities and errors from Nationwide, but wed ignored those. Mr C wanted his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it, but only in part. This is what I said then: 
Before reaching any decision in this complaint, I asked both sides for some further 
information. Having received responses to my requests, Ive reached a different 
conclusion on this complaint to our investigator. So this decision will be provisional, and 
Ill give both sides a chance to comment before I make a final decision. 
I think its clear that the emails Mr C received in this case, from Nationwide and from the 
solicitors working for Nationwide, have generated some confusion. Ive considered the 
screenshots of the document portal that Mr C sent, and although Nationwide tells us it 
has no access to documents uploaded using that portal, the screenshots are branded 
with the Nationwide logo. I think it would have been helpful if both Nationwide and its 
solicitors had been clearer that Mr C would get two separate sets of documentation 
requests, and each one would need to be satisfied separately. 
Unfortunately, I think this is not the only example of a lapse in service by Nationwide in 
this case. I listened to the call Mr C had with Nationwide on 25 July, where the agent 
repeatedly confirmed there was no reason an application couldnt go ahead for a 
mortgage just in Mr Cs name, on a property which he owned jointly with another 
person. I have queried this with Nationwide, and it now says this advice was incorrect. 
Ill return to this below. 
On the same call, Mr C referred to having uploaded documents to the portal, and the 
agent didnt query this. Nationwide has told us it doesnt have a portal, and it has no 
access to the documents uploaded to its solicitors portal. So I think this was a missed 
opportunity to resolve the confusion here. 
This is the same call where Nationwide accepts it gave Mr C some incorrect information. 
It told Mr C then that it had received documentation hed only ever sent via the portal, so 
it hadnt received. Nationwide accepts that it made a mistake about this. 
I also think it was unhelpful that Mr C was sent two final response letters. (I know Mr C 
says there were three, but I think only two of these were formal responses to Mr Cs 
complaint.) And I note that one of these letters says Mr C only supplied six months of 
statements, which is also an error by Nationwide. 
For those reasons, I think Nationwide was right to offer Mr C some compensation in this case. I can see it offered Mr C £100, and it doesnt look like thats been paid. But, 
because I think there have been a number of problems here, including the advice Mr C 
was given on his application in late July 2022, I dont think that would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the part of Mr Cs complaint which is about the poor service he 
received. I think Nationwide should pay Mr C £350 to make up for that. 
But Mr C also says that its because of Nationwides poor service, that he ended up 
missing out on this mortgage. He says hes now been offered a much higher rate, and 
he thinks thats Nationwides fault. 
I havent reached the same conclusion here. I dont think its likely that this application 
by Mr C would have resulted in an offer and the draw down of a mortgage. Thats for 
two reasons.
 Firstly, I dont think Mr C had actually supplied all of the information Nationwide 
requested. If we set aside the confusion about whether some documentation was 
actually supplied to Nationwide, or only sent to its solicitors, I think Nationwide was clear 
that it wanted 12 months of mortgage statements from Mr C. Nationwide also said these 
mortgages werent identified on the statements Mr C sent, and it wanted to know which 
was which. It wanted each mortgage statement to be supplied as one document. 
Mr C told us he had sent this information in late July, but Nationwide was asking him to 
send this information again in early August. I can see Mr C replied to this request by 
email in early August, and he said then that the statements hed already provided clearly 
show the account numbers, and the payment history. 
The files that Nationwide sent our service include four pages of actual statements, as 
well as the cover pages for those statements. The statements appear to cover two 
mortgage accounts. I understand that Nationwide had asked for 12 months of 
statements for both mortgages, to show a full payment history for this time, but the 
statements it received for the smaller of the two mortgages dont overlap, and give the 
impression that they are missing about a month. The statements for the larger of the two 
mortgages also included a typo over the date, which is somewhat unusual for 
documentation supplied by a mortgage lender. I can see Nationwide was aware of this. 
Given the issues Ive noted above with the mortgage statements that Mr C supplied, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to repeat its request for 12 months of 
mortgage statements. And I dont think Mr C ever responded with revised information, or 
an explanation of why this couldnt be supplied. Without a response to this request, I 
dont think Mr Cs application was likely to proceed. 
There is also a second reason why I dont think this application would have been 
successful. We know Mr C was told by Nationwides solicitors that he couldnt have a 
mortgage in just his name, if the property was in his name and his spouses name. I 
understand Nationwide then said to him, on a recorded call Ive listened to, that this 
wasnt an issue. But Nationwide has since confirmed that advice was wrong, and Mr C 
should have been referred back to its solicitors to resolve this. 
When Nationwides solicitors told Mr C he couldnt proceed with an application just in his 
name, unless the property was in his sole name, he said he didnt want to change how 
the property was owned. I think its very unlikely that Nationwide would then have gone 
ahead and offered lending against the recommendation of its solicitors. And that, in turn, 
makes me think its likely that Mr C would always have needed to make a fresh 
application, jointly with his spouse, if he wanted to remortgage with Nationwide but didnt 
want to transfer their home into his sole ownership. For those reasons, I think it was reasonable for Nationwide not to proceed with this 
application with the documentation Mr C had supplied. And I also think, because only 
one of the two people who owned the property was applying for lending, this application 
was always unlikely to have resulted in a completed remortgage for Mr C. 
So I know that Nationwide has accepted it made mistakes here. But I dont think those 
mistakes are why Mr C doesnt have this Nationwide mortgage now. 
Mr C was aware at the end of August 2022 that his application with Nationwide wasnt 
going ahead. But by mid-February 2023, five and a half months later, he said he was 
still in the process of arranging a new mortgage. Mr C hasnt told our service why his 
remortgage isnt yet completed, but I dont think this further delay is Nationwides fault. 
And mortgage rates have changed again during this time. 
For these reasons, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably ask Nationwide to pay 
compensation based on the difference between the Nationwide remortgage Mr C was 
applying for in summer 2022, and any remortgage that he may have secured since then. 
My current view is that the payment of compensation Ive suggested above does provide 
a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide said it would agree to pay Mr C an additional £250 in compensation, to make 
£350 in total. Nationwide said Id noted the confusion caused by the document portal for its 
acting solicitor being branded as Nationwide. It said this portal was amended not long after 
Mr C made his application, and does now just show the name of the firm of solicitors. 
My provisional decision, set out above, explains I thought Nationwide should pay £350 in 
compensation for what had gone wrong here, and also that I reached this view on the basis 
that appeared Mr C hadnt yet received any payment from Nationwide for this complaint. 
Nationwide now says it has paid Mr C £100 for his complaint. I think its in line with my 
provisional decision to allow Nationwide to count towards the total compensation I awarded, 
any payment it has already made to Mr C, so Ill adjust my award accordingly below.
Mr C responded to disagree. He said he was pleased Id agreed that the website branding 
was an issue, and that Id concluded Nationwide had made mistakes. But he said an award 
of £350 was still far and away from where a realistic level of compensation should be. 
Mr C addressed the two reasons why Id concluded that his mortgage application would not, 
in any event, have been successful. On the issue of supply of statements, he said he had 
sent Nationwide 12 months of statements. Hed explained there were two mortgages on the 
property, and he said if Nationwide needed clarification of that, it should have asked for it. 
But he said it didnt, it just kept saying the statements werent received, or were in the wrong 
format. Mr C said that after three months of being messed around, he gave Nationwide an 
ultimatum, with a deadline to make a mortgage offer. Mr C said that was when Nationwide 
refunded his valuation fee, and cancelled the application, without any correspondence. 
And on the issue of whether Mr C could obtain a mortgage in his sole name, over a property 
which is owned jointly with someone else, he said that he and his spouse own the house 50/50. But the mortgage is just in his name, as he pays all the bills for the house. 
Mr C said his mortgage has always been structured that way, since they bought the 
property, so he didnt accept it would be an issue for a bank to provide another mortgage in 
the same manner. He did accept there would be legal documents for his spouse to sign, but 
he said in his opinion that would not prevent the issue of a mortgage offer. 
Mr C said he was now paying much more than he should be paying if Nationwide had 
honoured its commitments. He said he hadnt sent details of this because he hadnt been 
asked to. But he thought all Nationwide had done was used what happened as an excuse 
not to offer the suggested lending, because of the speed at which rates had risen. 
Mr C wanted me to amend my decision in light of his comments, and send through a more 
realistic offer of compensation. 
Im sorry to have to tell Mr C that I havent changed my mind. Ill explain why not. 
I thought there were two problems in this case, either of which seemed to me would be likely 
to have prevented Nationwide from ultimately making an offer in this case. 
Mr Cs first point is that Nationwide never explained why it wanted fresh statements from 
him. I do think there has been some confusion here. From the emails Ive seen, whilst its 
clear Nationwide wasnt happy with the documents it had received, I do think there was 
scope for Nationwide to be clearer about its concerns. But it also seems as if Mr C was then 
replying to an email address which Nationwide said wasnt monitored, and had asked him 
not to reply to. 
However, whatever the outcome on this first point, I would still say that a second hurdle 
remained, and means Nationwide was never likely to complete this application. 
Its still my view that its unlikely Mr C would have been willing to change either the way his 
house was owned, or the basis of his mortgage lending. Thats because he has told us he 
thinks that is quite unnecessary. In my experience, its not common for a high street lender 
to offer a mortgage in the sole name of one person, where two people are named on the 
deeds. I understand Mr C has found a lender who is willing to do this, so I understand why 
he says it isnt an insurmountable obstacle. 
However, the key point here is that Nationwide has said it wasnt willing to lend on this basis. 
Nationwide doesnt have to lend to Mr C, and if it chooses not to lend on the particular basis 
that Mr C wanted, thats not unfair or unreasonable. As Ive said, I dont think this is an 
uncommon approach for high street lenders to take. And as theres nothing here to make me 
think Mr C would then have been willing to make the required changes for this mortgage to 
go ahead, I still think this mortgage was unlikely ever to have been drawn down by Mr C. 
Although arguably Nationwide could have turned down Mr C for lending a little sooner, I also 
noted that Mr C then didnt secure a different mortgage elsewhere, right away. And I said 
further changes in interest rates during this subsequent period werent something I could 
hold Nationwide responsible for. 
Thats why my proposed award here wasnt based on the difference between the mortgage 
Mr C initially discussed with Nationwide, and the mortgage hes got now. Considering all the 
circumstances of this case, I still think my proposed award of compensation provides a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed, subject to the qualification explained above.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr C £350. Nationwide 
Building Society can count towards that amount, any payment it has already made to Mr C 
for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman