DRN-3285004
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around March 2017, Mrs C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs C decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In February 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Cs behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mrs C to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan agreement payments.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs C or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. However it later offered £200 compensation for 
its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Mrs C had dyslexia, and at the start of the sales meeting she had made this clear to 
Ps salesman, who had told her that she did not need to read the quote (on which our 
adjudicator had relied in coming to her decision), and had not shown it to her, nor 
given her the opportunity to get help to read it;
a copy of the quote had never been sent to her to read in her own time;
Mrs C had never signed the quote, and she did not recognize the signature which 
appears on it and purports to be her signature;
being satisfied with what she had been told in the sales meeting, Mrs C had not 
thought it necessary to ask for a copy of the quote afterwards;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not in law a defence to a 
claim for misrepresentation.
P says that it has no note of whether Mrs C mentioned her dyslexia to the salesman. 
Shawbrook argued that the lack of a note may indicate that she did not mention it  but if she 
had, it was likely that the salesman would have followed Ps policy on dealing with 
vulnerable customers.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs C could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs C and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
Key documents and dyslexia
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs C says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mrs Cs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened. I have also referred to Ps internal policy 
document (provided to me in confidence via Shawbrook), Policy and Procedures  Treating 
Customers Fairly. This document, on pages 11 and 12, sets out Ps policy for dealing with 
vulnerable customers, including those with a limited ability to read, and I think this can 
properly be interpreted as including dyslexia. Mrs C has provided evidence, via the CMC, to 
prove that she has dyslexia, which I accept.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this normally formed a central and routine part of the sales process, and 
that Ps salesman would have discussed this in detail with Mrs C  unless he knew at the 
time that she had dyslexia.
Mrs C denies that she was shown the quote, since she had told the salesman early in the 
meeting that she couldnt read it due to her dyslexia. 
Ps policy says that, in such circumstances, the salesman was supposed to reschedule the 
meeting so that Mrs C could have someone attend and support her. That did not happen. 
This could indicate that Mrs C did not tell the salesman about her dyslexia, and that he did 
not pick up on it. But I still think it is more likely than not that she would have mentioned her 
dyslexia to the salesman, and I find that she did mention it, either immediately or as soon as 
he referred to the sales documentation (notwithstanding that he made no note about it).
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
salesman would normally have gone through the quote with his potential customers during 
sales meetings, but that he did not do so in this instance because Mrs C had told him at the 
outset that there would be no point in him doing that for her. That means he did not follow 
Ps policy of re-scheduling the meeting, but I dont think that is proof that he would have 
departed from his usual sales pitch. It seems to me, on balance, that the salesman would 
still have given his usual sales pitch which he was accustomed to giving  and that this 
would have been consistent with what the quote says  rather than dishonestly adapting his 
sales pitch to take advantage of one customer who was  unable to read the quote.
Therefore, although the quote was not referred to on this occasion, I have still taken it into 
account  along with Mrs Cs version of events  when considering if there have been any 
untrue statements of fact.
The quote appears to have been signed by Mrs C, and P has provided (via Shawbrook) 
evidence that the quote was emailed to her (I have checked that the email address is 
correct) and electronically signed by her. So I am satisfied that it is her signature. But I do 
not think this is evidence that she read the quote, only that she agreed to buy the system. In 
my view, the real evidential value of the quote is that it indicates what the salesman is likely 
to have said at the meeting.
(I also accept that a copy of the quote was emailed to Mrs C, so she could have asked a 
friend to read it, which I think mitigates the salesmans error in not rescheduling the meeting, 
as she was not deprived of the 14-day cooling-off period. But I agree with the CMC that, if 
misrepresentations were made, the opportunity to discover the true position later is not a 
defence in law.)
FIT payments and savings
Mrs C has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mrs Cs recollections of her meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
The first of these tables sets out that Mrs C could expect to receive a total FIT income in 
year one of £181.30, which results in an average monthly income of £15.11. Im satisfied 
that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of 
£102.04. As a result, and given my finding above that the salesman did not contradict the 
quote, Im not satisfied that Mrs C was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs C could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £325.97 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs C, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£896.07. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £102.04. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £99.73, but the difference  £2.31  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £102.04, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative 
figure for the first five years of the loan, meaning that the system would take six years to 
begin to make enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mrs C wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mrs Cs version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
would normally have formed a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, and I dont think that the salesman would have altered his usual 
sales pitch just because the quote was not used in this instance, it follows that I do not find 
that Mrs C was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income 
and savings.
Self-funding
However, I do accept that Mrs C was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time. The Key Facts page of the quote states that it would take 9 years for 
the overall benefits that Mrs C could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system. 
So I think its likely that the salesman told her that.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This also shows that during year 9 the overall benefits that Mrs C could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,650.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement would be 
reached by the end of year 14 (although that amount is not shown in the quote but only in 
the loan agreement).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs C that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 9 years (and for the loan in about 14 years), as supported by the graphic and the 
table above, which were included in the quote (and I think the salesman would have told her 
the same). If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, then that could 
amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 59 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mrs C.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,791 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mrs Cs FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 2,979 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy generation, if 
not financially. So the reason Mrs C has not seen the expected financial returns is not 
because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mrs C hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs C could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs C entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs C to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mrs C to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for 
its delay in responding to her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman