DRN-4375147
The complaint
Mr H has complained that David Stock & Co Limited (David Stock) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
Mr H had obtained a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS dated 16 
October 2017. It showed he had service of 21 years and 9 months and final remuneration of 
£31,640. The transfer value was just over £247,900, including a deduction to reflect the 
schemes funding position.
In January 2018, David Stock completed a fact find analysis to establish Mr Hs 
circumstances and financial objectives. An assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk determined 
that he had a cautious risk appetite.
Based on the documents completed, Mr Hs circumstances were as follows:
He was 43, separated, with one dependent child.
He was employed, earning £30,000 pa.
He owned his home, valued at £90,000, with a mortgage of £70,000.
He had unsecured debt of around £10,000.
No details of any savings or investments were recorded.
He was a member of his employers Group Personal Pension (GPP) but had no other 
pension arrangements.
No details of Mr Hs net income or expenditure were recorded.
David Stock issued an initial advice report dated 5 January 2018. Mr H signed an advice 
confirmation declaration on 8 January 2018. It confirmed he had been provided with transfer 
advice and understood he was giving up guarantees.
The initial advice report set out David Stocks advice. It recommended that Mr H transfer the 
BSPS defined benefits to a PPP with LV=, known as a Flexible Transition Account. In terms 
of investments, it recommended a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) portfolio via Brewin 
Dolphin.
David Stock noted that Mr H had the following objective, which formed the basis of its 
reasons for recommending the transfer:
Flexibility regarding how and when to take pension benefits.
Based on the LV= illustration, David Stock levied an initial advice fee of 1%, expected to be 
£2,479. According to the advice report, it levied a retainer fee of 0.1% or £247 per annum  
this was also quoted on the LV= illustration. Mr H also signed a Service Proposition & 
Engagement document which referred to 1% ongoing fees, but the investigators 
understanding was that only the 0.1% retainer fee was actually applied.
The Brewin Dolphin DFM carried separate charges of 0.8% excluding vat. The estimated 
annual charge was expected to be £2,379 (inc vat). The illustration provided by Brewin 
Dolphin was based on a balanced portfolio, but the welcome letter dated 24 May 2018 
quoted the risk classification as Diversified Risk (category 3). 
The investigator said that it was unclear as to whether this was aligned to a cautious or 
balanced ATR.
Mr H accepted David Stocks recommendation and the PPP began in early 2018.
Mr H complained to David Stock on 7 July 2022, requesting that the suitability of the advice 
he received be assessed. David Stock issued a final response letter dated 31 August 2022, 
saying that its advice had been suitable. It also said that, in addition to seeking flexibility with 
his pension fund, Mr H had wanted to protect his pension fund for his dependent child in light 
of his recent separation.
On 24 November 2022, David Stock told this service that it wished to make an offer for
settlement of this complaint (without conceding that the advice had been unsuitable). David 
Stock undertook a redress calculation on the basis of the regulators guidance contained 
within final guidance FG17/9, which it said identified that Mr H had not suffered a financial 
loss as a result of its advice. 
The investigator put this to Mr H on 25 November 2022, but Mr H rejected that outcome and 
said that he would like this service to continue to review the suitability of the advice he 
received.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The critical yield to match the scheme benefits at age 65 was 5.68%. The discount 
rate to age 65 was 4.5%. David Stock had said that the critical yield might be 
achievable for a younger individual who had a medium attitude to risk, but Mr H had 
been assessed as having a cautious risk attitude. The comments regarding the 
critical yield had been unclear in the initial advice report, and it wouldnt have been 
clear to Mr H as to whether the transfer represented good value for money.
In terms of other objectives, David Stock hadnt been able to demonstrate that it 
knew its client or that Mr Hs needs had been clearly defined and understood.
In terms of flexibility and control, Mr Hs objective around this hadnt been clearly set 
out and it seemed to be a stock motive. There didnt seem to be any clear indication 
as to when Mr H might retire, but early retirement would in any case have been 
possible either within the BSPS 2 or the PPF. If Mr H required additional flexibility, he 
could have made the decision to transfer closer to retirement.
Mr H could also have achieved the required flexibility by accessing his defined 
contribution plan. Given the size of the contributions to this, this would have 
amounted to a reasonable sum by retirement.
Further, the available evidence didnt support the position that Mr H had either the 
desire or capacity to exercise personal control over his pension fund.
As to death benefits, the initial advice report had made mention of death benefits 
being important to Mr H, with the suggestion being in the final response letter that he 
wished to protect his young child. But the primary purpose of the retirement benefits 
was to provide an income to Mr H.
Mr H also had generous death in service benefits, and his child could have benefited 
from the dependants pension whilst they remained in full time education. Life 
assurance could also have been explored if an additional lump sum was required in 
the short term. Mr Hs son could also have benefitted from the value of the defined 
contribution plan.
Mr H may have had concerns about the prospects for the BSPS, but these concerns 
should have been managed and addressed by David Stock.
The investigator recommended that David Stock undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr H
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.But the investigator also noted the regulators consultation on a revised methodology and 
enquired of Mr H as to whether his preference would be to have a loss calculation 
undertaken on the existing basis, or to await the new methodology for defined benefit 
transfer redress calculations.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Hs pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr H, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Mr H accepted the investigators conclusions and indicated that hed like the calculation to 
be undertaken in line with the existing methodology.
A representative of David Stock then said that the calculation had been undertaken and that 
it had produced a no loss outcome. But it offered Mr H £50 to settle the matter.
Mr H didnt accept the outcome of the calculation undertaken, however, or the offer made to 
him, and requested that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for review.
The (new) investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a 
BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the 
BSPS consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses 
to use the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require David Stock to 
use the FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr H.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint, they should let him
know by 4 December 2023.
Mr H confirmed that he was prepared for the calculation to be undertaken on this basis, but 
wished his reasons for the referral to also be taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the comment from Mr H in response to the investigators most recent contact 
about the BSPS specific calculator. And Id like to reassure him that Ive carefully considered 
the merits of the case on a fair and reasonable outcome.
But as David Stock has previously indicated its preparedness to undertake the redress 
calculation, and hasnt submitted further comments on the merits of the case in response to 
the investigators assessment, Ill keep my observations on the matter of suitability relatively 
brief.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of David Stock's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 specifically relate to a defined 
benefit pension transfer.
The regulator, the FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer 
from a defined benefit scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, David Stock should have only 
considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs best 
interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The TVAS report which David Stock was required to carry out by the regulator said 
that the critical yield - how much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each 
year in order to provide the same benefits as his defined benefit scheme  was 
5.68% to match the pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65. 
Given this, along with the discount rate of 4.5% to 65 (and 4.3% to age 60), and the 
regulators middle projection rate for growth (5% pa), I think Mr H was more likely 
than not to receive pension benefits, from age 60 or 65, of a lower value that those 
hed have been entitled to under the BSPS 2 by transferring and investing in line with 
his cautious attitude to risk. 
Early retirement may well have been appealing to Mr H, as it might reasonably be 
appealing to a great many people, but he had no clear or pressing plans to do so, 
which I think is understandable for a 43 year old. Mr Hs circumstances may in any 
case have changed significantly between then and retirement. And if flexibility was 
required in terms of any funding gap between early retirement and his normal 
retirement date (or the state pension age), Mr H would have accrued around 17 
years defined contributions by age 60. He could have accessed as much or as little 
of this as he required  flexibly - including tax free cash, until he needed to begin 
accessing his BSPS benefits.
As set out by the investigator, I also dont think the objective of control over Mr Hs 
pension funds was well supported by his other circumstances, investment history or 
experience.
In terms of the alternative lump sum death benefits a transfer offered to his family, as 
noted by the investigator, the priority here was to advise Mr H about what was best 
for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a 
dependants pension, that could have been valuable to his family (and in particular his child) in the event of his death. The defined contribution plan, and, in the event of 
death before retirement, the death in service benefits, would also have provided 
further lump sums.
While the CETV figure may no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it would have also 
been reduced by any income Mr H drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr H may have thought it would. Further, I think it would be 
reasonably envisaged that Mr Hs child would be financially independent by the time 
he retired.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. 
Mr H may have held concerns about the prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF. But 
it was David Stocks role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the 
advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS 2 being established. But even if not, the 
PPF still provided Mr H with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free 
cash. Mr H was unlikely to improve on his scheme benefits by transferring. So, 
entering the PPF was not as concerning as he might have thought, and I dont think 
any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons as to why it was clearly in Mr Hs best interest to 
relinquish his defined benefits and transfer them to a PPP. And I also havent seen anything 
to persuade me that Mr H would have insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in 
the defined benefit scheme. 
So, as with the investigator, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr H received 
from David Stock was unsuitable.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would more 
likely than not have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the 
BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given.
David Stock & Co Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
David Stock & Co Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and our 
service upon completion of the calculation.
Mr H hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years. So compensation should be based 
on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, David Stock & Co Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with the 
cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts the offer of David Stock & Co Limited to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require David Stock & Co Limited to pay Mr H the 
compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also 
recommend that David Stock & Co Limited pays Mr H the balance.If Mr H accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on David Stock & Co Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on David Stock & Co Limited. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr H could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.
Ive noted that David Stock & Co Limiteds representative has offered Mr H an additional 
£50, irrespective of its prior no loss outcome. I think Mr H will have been caused some 
concern by this matter, and so I think its reasonable that it should therefore also pay this to 
Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct David Stock & Co Limited to 
undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman