DRN-3283189
The complaint
Mr J complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc has dealt with a number of online account 
access problems.
What happened
Mr J says he has had numerous problems accessing his HSBC banking application (app) 
and using online banking. He says it has required him to re-set his credentials which resulted 
in inconvenience and excessive time spent trying to make transactions. Mr J says HSBC 
staff have lied to him and misinformed him. He says HSBCs actions have caused his health 
issues to deteriorate. Mr J would like answers to why this has taken place as well as 
compensation. He says he was told by HSBC at one stage his account had been corrupted 
which caused him concern about account security but was then told by HSBC it hadnt used 
that term when it clearly did.
HSBC accepts making a number of mistakes dealing with Mr J and these issues. It says 
some of the problems have been caused by Mr J forgetting security question answers or by 
inputting incorrect information. HSBC has apologised for how parts of this complaint have 
been dealt with and for using the term corrupted. It has also apologised for telling Mr J that 
term hadnt been used when it had. HSBC says it has tried to help Mr J and has paid a total 
of £575 in compensation.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation paid 
appropriate. The investigator accepted that HSBC had made mistakes and shouldnt have 
said the term corrupted wasnt used about the account when it was but thought that didnt 
mean an account had been compromised and also thought HSBC had fairly apologised for 
that. The investigator thought overall HSBC had tried to help Mr J and that the compensation 
was in line with the amounts we would order for this sort of complaint.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and says he has been a customer of HSBC for over 20 years 
and so should be treated accordingly. He says the compensation is paltry and the HSBC 
staff should face sanctions for how they acted. Mr J says he cant accept being lied to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint and am 
satisfied that HSBC has acted fairly in the circumstances of this complaint by apologising 
and paying what I think is an appropriate compensation amount. I appreciate that Mr J will 
be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he feels about what took place. I 
make clear to Mr J that we are not HSBCs regulator and so its not our role to punish a 
business or direct that HSBC staff members are sanctioned as he suggests.
There is no question here that HSBC didnt deal with aspects of Mr Js complaints as it 
should. There is no need for me to repeat them in detail as they are well known to the parties 
and I can see that the investigator has listed them in detail in her view. I accept that Mr J 
was caused frustration and inconvenience in dealing with these issues and that it would 
have taken some time to re-set his accounts. But I have to consider that I think that some of 
the issues were caused by Mr J inputting incorrect security information.
The only real issue for me to decide is the level of compensation. I dont think Mr J suffered 
any real financial loss and I dont think his account was every compromised as he thought 
when the term corrupted was used. I appreciate Mr Js concern when he was told that term 
hadnt been used when it clearly had, and I also appreciate what Mr J says about his 
medical position.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for its mistakes. I have listened to the 
telephone calls between the parties and think generally HSBC tried to help and assist Mr J 
with the account access issues. Im also satisfied that HSBC has paid what I think is a fair 
and reasonable compensation amount of £575. I think such an award is consistent with the 
type of awards we would make for these sorts of complaints. It follows that I cant fairly 
recommend HSBC increase it.
I also appreciate that Mr J says he cant accept being lied to by HSBC. I am sorry to 
disappoint Mr J, but I cant see how this service can deal with that part of the complaint 
having made clear that I find the compensation paid by HSBC appropriate. I also think this 
now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman