DRN-3614669
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) declined to make a 
cash settlement under his appliance insurance policy.
What happened
In Feb 2022 Mr A reported that his gas hob was not working. Mr A had an appliance policy at 
the relevant time with D&G.
Mr A booked a repair of his gas hob with D&G. Its engineer deemed the hob to be beyond 
economical repair (BER) however, and D&G offered to replace Mr As hob. Mr A was 
unhappy with replacements. He said that he would prefer a cash settlement as he was going 
to arrange kitchen renovations. D&G declined this request and stated that the terms and 
conditions of the policy didnt provide for this. Mr A was unhappy, as hed been provided with 
a cash settlement by D&G for a different appliance in the past. He didnt understand why this 
option was not being provided on this occasion.
Mr A complained to D&G however it maintained its stance and said that the policy provided 
for a replacement or vouchers but not cash. It said that it had attempted to assist Mr A. Mr A 
didnt accept this and complained to this service
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He considered that D&G had acted fairly 
and reasonably in offering a replacement cooker or vouchers for purchase of a replacement 
cooker as the policy didnt provide for the option of a cash settlement. Mr A remains unhappy 
with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has been referred to me to make a final 
decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question for me to determine is whether D&G applied the terms and conditions of Mr As 
appliance insurance policy in a fair and reasonable manner. I consider that it has done so, 
and Ill explain why.
As the complaint relates to application of policy terms and conditions, my starting point is the 
policy itself. Under the heading: - Replacements it states: -
1. In some situations we will arrange to replace your product instead of repairing it (for 
example where we cannot repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for us to repair your 
product). In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your product with one of a same 
or similar make and technical specification.
2. If we cannot reasonably arrange a replacement, we will give you vouchers instead. The 
vouchers will be for the full retail price (from a retailer chosen by us) of a replacement 
product of the same or similar make and technical specification. The vouchers will also pay 
for the delivery.
3. All vouchers will be valid for 12 months from the date of issue. Voucher settlements will be 
sent to the last address you gave us. If vouchers are not available we will provide a cash 
equivalent.
In the insurance product information document issued by D&G, it states under the heading 
What is insured that this comprises of repairs, replacements or vouchers for the full retail 
price of a replacement.
Turning to what Mr A says, he feels strongly that he should be provided with a cash 
settlement rather than a replacement hob or vouchers. This is because he was planning 
kitchen renovations in the future and was thinking about an integrated model. He says that 
he was given a cash settlement by D&G for his fridge-freezer the previous year. He therefore 
doesnt understand why this option is not being provided for his gas hob.
In his initial call to D&G, Mr A was advised that model he mentioned was out of stock so he 
asked whether he could get a cash settlement. In another call, he said he was in the process 
of changing his kitchen and wanted to get an integrated model, so again asked whether he 
could have a cash settlement. He also said that D&G had sent him links for freestanding 
cookers despite his wish to have an integrated hob instead. Mr A added that he was 
unhappy with just reviewing appliance pictures online and wanted to view them in person. 
Mr A has stated that due to family circumstances, it could take him 1-2 years before he can 
replace the kitchen, whilst vouchers would only be valid for 12 months. He said that D&G 
alleged that hed had agreed he would accept a particular appliance. He said that wasnt true 
and that hed always asked for a cash settlement and that hed never accepted any offer. He 
also said that he wasnt willing to accept vouchers as he wasnt sure if hed be able to use 
them in other stores. He said he would much rather a cash settlement for this reason.
As to what D&G says about the matter, it considers that it had provided reasonable options 
to Mr A within the policy terms. It said that Mr A had initially asked for a particular appliance 
which was out of stock. D&G offered this model as it came back into stock, however Mr A 
refused it. It had then also asked Mr A for his preferred model and model number to 
complete a check on the model. Initially hed given a model number but then said hed given 
a random model number, but that he hadnt chosen one yet. It noted that Mr A repeatedly 
asked for a cash settlement. 
D&G said it had explained that it would have to check if a replacement could be reasonably 
provided. It also explained why it wouldnt offer cash settlement unless there were extreme 
circumstances, such as if it couldnt match the appliance with the same or similar model as 
his existing one. It said that Mr A had initially said that he would be carrying out kitchen 
renovations in 1-2 months and subsequently mentioned 1-2 years. As to vouchers, it said 
these would be for a certain value. If a particular appliance wasnt available in its chosen 
outlet, there were cookers of similar specifications available.
During telephone calls, D&G said it advised that the policy was designed to provide 
replacements. Mr A was asked to provide model numbers of cookers he was interested in for 
its consideration and D&G said it would look to provide one from its stockists. It confirmed 
that Mr A could obtain the replacement hob which suited his needs when he renovated his 
kitchen and that it could keep the claim outstanding for Mr A. It acknowledged that it had 
provided a cash settlement previously but said it wouldnt be appropriate here, due to being 
able to source suitable replacements. As to viewing items in person, D&G thought that Mr A 
would be able to do this in stores that stocked that model. As to the cash settlement it had previously given for a fridge freezer, it said this was done as the customer was looking to 
upgrade to a model it couldnt supply.  
In summary D&G accepted that Mr A wasnt happy with the models being offered but had 
failed to suggest any models that he would be happy with. It said it had tried to resolve the 
situation within the policy terms, but the only solution Mr A was willing to accept was a cash 
settlement. Finally, it referred to the policy terms which allowed for provision of vouchers if it 
was unable to reasonably arrange a replacement. It believed it had done all it could to work 
with Mr A to offer a replacement model that would be suitable at a time when he was ready. 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence and submissions made by both Mr A and D&G. Ive 
also listened to relevant telephone records. I appreciate that Mr A feels strongly that a cash 
settlement is what he wants to receive under his policy. However, Im satisfied that D&G has 
fairly and reasonably tried to resolve Mr As claim in line with the terms of the relevant policy. 
It provided a number of options for Mr A, none of which have provided Mr A with a 
satisfactory outcome.
The policy terms are however clear. The policy is in place to provide a repair where possible. 
If not, it allows for a replacement appliance. Again, if a replacement cannot reasonably be 
provided, then vouchers will be provided. The vouchers allow for purchase of an appliance of 
the same or similar make and technical specification as the existing item. Its only if vouchers 
arent available that a cash settlement is considered. This is not the case here. 
D&R have fairly and reasonably offered a particular replacement. When that wasnt 
acceptable to Mr A, it asked him to provide details of a model which would be acceptable 
including an integrated model. Mr A didnt wish to provide such details at that time due to 
future kitchen renovation work. D&G then reasonably offered vouchers instead at a time to 
suit Mr A. It appears however that the only outcome acceptable to Mr A was cash 
settlement. This would only be considered however as a final resort if the above remedies 
werent available or possible.
Im satisfied that this process was described fairly and clearly during various telephone 
conversations between Mr A and D&G. Im also satisfied that D&G has applied the terms 
and conditions of the policy in a fair and reasonable manner and has allowed Mr A the 
opportunity to suggest model numbers which he thinks would be suitable and also to delay 
the process until Mr A was ready to proceed. It has also stated that it will consider integrated 
models if Mr A provides any website links.  
Whilst I consider that the fact that D&Gs vouchers are for one outlet only is somewhat 
unfortunate, its terms and conditions do make it clear that it has the right to choose the 
relevant retailer. I cant say that this is an unusual or unfair provision. It has also stated that it 
will consider integrated models if Mr A provides any relevant website links. 
In summary, I note that during telephone calls, Mr A had consistently pressed for cash 
settlement. Hes been adamant that this is the only fair reasonable outcome. I appreciate his 
strength of feeling however in this case, I consider that D&G has provided fair and 
reasonable options to settle his claim in line with the policy's terms and conditions.
As to D&Gs previous cash settlement for a different appliance, unfortunately for Mr A the 
fact that D&G exercised its discretion to pay a cash settlement on a different appliance on 
the specific facts of that case, doesnt mean that D&G must do the same on every occasion. 
It doesnt mean that its unfair or unreasonable for D&G to apply the terms and conditions of 
the policy in the way it has for the current complaint.In conclusion, I appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed by this final decision as hes 
adamant that he wanted a cash settlement. Our remit however is to decide whether the 
insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances. In this set of circumstances, 
D&G has done no more than to reasonably apply the terms and conditions of the policy. Its 
not necessary for it to go above and beyond what it agreed to provide, and in this case, the 
terms and conditions were clear from the outset. Im satisfied that D&G tried to do all it could 
to help satisfy Mr As needs within the terms and conditions of the policy, which only provide 
for cash settlement in the event that it cannot offer a replacement or vouchers. It is however 
able to do so here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr As complaint and I dont require 
D&G to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman