DRN-4463976
The complaint
Mrs G complains that MBNA Limited declined transactions.
Mr G, an additional card holder, brings this complaint on behalf of his wife. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G were in another country when Mr G wanted to make a payment for dental 
care. He attempted to make the payment several times, but it was declined each time he 
tried. Mr G complained to MBNA about this and it responded to say that a PIN hadnt been 
entered and that the merchant wasnt sending the transaction through to it using a chip and 
PIN device.
Mr G wasnt happy with this and brought the complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into it. MBNA provided some information about why the payment had 
been declined, but after further investigation  found that, rather than a PIN needing to be 
entered, the actual reason the payments were declined was because there was a system 
processing error.
Our investigation took this into account, but didnt feel there was any evidence to show that 
MBNA could be held liable for the transactions being unsuccessful. Mr G disagreed with this 
on Mrs Gs behalf and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may help to start here by saying that while Mr G is an additional cardholder on his wifes 
account, that doesnt mean he has a contractual relationship in the same way as his wife. 
Ultimately, Mrs G is responsible for the account and has the relevant relationship that this 
complaint arises from. So it is Mrs G that is the eligible complainant here. 
Most of, if not all of, the impact of this situation has been on Mr G himself. But Mr G is 
bringing this complaint on his wifes behalf and so Ive considered things here on this basis.
It will have no doubt been very frustrating that the payments here were declined when they 
were. It will have then been doubly confusing and frustrating to not fully understand why the 
payments werent successful. While its clear thats the case, that doesnt mean that MBNA 
has treated Mrs G (and Mr G) unfairly here  even if it could have handled things better.
Mr G was initially told that the reason for the payment being declined was because a PIN 
hadnt been entered and because of the device the merchant had used. But, after this 
service became involved, MBNA then provided further evidence to show that the reason the 
payments werent successful was because of a system processing error. Its not helpful that 
MBNA didnt provide this reasoning to Mrs G, or this service, when the complaint was first 
raised  but it is evidence I now have to consider.
Firstly, Ive considered all that Mr G has said about the payment and circumstances here. 
Hes said that he entered the card and PIN twice but still the payment wasnt made. But a 
payment like the one here has a number of steps and a number of parties involved in 
processing it. Just because it was unsuccessful, that doesnt automatically mean that its 
MBNAs fault. And the evidence Ive seen supports that its more likely than not that it wasnt.
The evidence that MBNA has provided is a record of how the payment request was 
processed at the time on its systems. It shows that the payment was declined because of an 
issue at the point of sale, but it doesnt look like the problem was to do with how MBNA 
handled the payment. Instead, the evidence supports that its more likely than not an issue 
with the merchant, or the merchants payment terminal. Its not clear exactly what the 
specific issue was  it could be a number of different issues in relation to problems at the 
point of sale. But none of those look to be MBNAs fault. The reasons here arent as specific 
as Mr G would like, but when viewed impartially - the evidence persuades me that its not 
MBNAs fault that the payment wasnt successful.
So I havent seen any reason to say that itd be fair to hold MBNA liable for these payments 
being declined. Ive considered all that Mr G has said on his wifes behalf, including his 
reference to industry standards and the service MBNA has provided around this issue. But I 
havent seen anything that means itd be fair for me to tell MBNA to take any further action 
here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman