DRN-2203616
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that a life assurance policy sold to them by The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited didnt provide them with protection in the event they were 
unable to work due to illness. They felt the policy wasnt suitable for their needs. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said the policy Royal London sold them was suitable cover for their mortgage in 
the event one of them was to die. He said it looked as though some kind of payment 
protection was discussed at the point of sale, but Mr and Mrs M chose to proceed with life 
cover only. So, our investigator couldnt say Royal London did anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept what our investigator said and have asked for an Ombudsmans 
review. They said our investigator had made assumptions on what additional cover had been 
discussed at the point of sale. And they didnt agree that Mr M not having an accident, and 
them not losing their house, was evidence that the policy Royal London sold them was 
suitable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr and Mrs M feel strongly about this complaint and this will come as 
a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
As our investigator has explained, anyone offering financial advice must ensure their 
recommendations are suitable to meet a customers needs. But theyre not required to find 
and recommend the best possible product available. 
Mr and Mrs M were sold a joint decreasing term assurance policy in 1989. The policy was 
designed to pay out what was left on their mortgage in the event one of them was to die, and 
lasted for the term of the mortgage  in this case 20 years. The policy came to an end in 
2009. This is the type of cover Id expect a business to recommend to a customer when 
buying a mortgage to ensure the property is protected in the event of the life assureds 
death. And it matched the specific terms of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage. So, I cant say Royal 
Londons advice to Mr and Mrs M was unsuitable or that it mis-sold them the policy.
Based on the limited information available at the point of sale, I agree with the investigator 
that its possible some kind of payment protection or critical illness cover to run alongside the 
life cover was discussed. And indeed, this wouldnt be unusual. I dont dispute Mr and 
Mrs Ms point that this cover wouldve been something theyd have considered given Mr Ms 
profession. But the evidence Ive seen shows that for some reason, Mr and Mrs M chose 
only to take out life cover at the time. It may have been because of the cost involved in 
increasing the level of cover, or because they didnt think it suitable. Mr and Mrs M may now 
think, with the benefit of hindsight, that further cover to protect against illness or injury 
wouldve been beneficial. But I cant say the policy Royal London sold them in 1989 was 
unsuitable nor that it didnt act in accordance with Mr and Mrs Ms wishes at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman