DRN-4222241
The complaint
Mrs M is represented by a solicitor in pursuing her complaint, which is made on behalf of 
herself and the estate of her late husband, Mr M. The solicitor says that Zurich Assurance 
Ltd (Zurich) has unfairly refused a life assurance claim Mrs M made under her and Mr Ms 
protection policy. Zurich says no payment was due under the policy because it had lapsed 
due to non-payment of premiums, and the lapse occurred before Mr M passed away.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 June 2023.  
In summary, despite my genuine sympathy for Mrs M, I believed the complaint could not 
succeed. I explained why I believed Zurich had fairly lapsed Mrs M and her late husbands 
term assurance policy due to unpaid premiums  in accordance with the policy terms. 
Accordingly, there was no insurance cover in place when Mrs M later came to make a claim. 
I invited the parties to make any further submissions or provide evidence that they wanted 
me to consider. I havent repeated the background here, as it is known to the parties. 
However, a full copy of the findings set out in that provisional decision is provided in italics 
below.
I was truly sorry to learn that Mr M had passed away, and I send my condolences to Mrs M 
and her family. I appreciate how distressing things have been for her, given the particularly 
difficult financial and emotional circumstances that have been set out by Mrs Ms solicitor. 
I do not wish to cause Mrs M any further upset in issuing this provisional decision. However, 
for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I have reached a different view on this complaint to that 
of our investigator. I do not consider Zurich to have acted unfairly in the circumstances; nor 
do I think it ought to pay the claim now. So, I do not believe this complaint can succeed.  
Ive looked carefully at everything both parties have said. I do think it was fair for Zurich to 
lapse the policy. I can see that Mrs M didnt intend for the policy to end, and that she didnt 
actually know about it at all. But be that as it may, the premiums couldnt be collected
in September 2021, due to insufficient funds in the nominated bank account. 
A protection policy such as this one will only remain in force so long as the premiums are 
paid. And while I appreciate the solicitor has explained the difficulty in payment taking place, 
it doesnt deter from the fact the premium was missed, despite three attempts at collection.
So, I have looked at the Level Protection Plan terms and conditions. Those terms form the 
basis of the contract of insurance between the parties, and I need to review them to ensure 
theyve been fairly interpreted by Zurich when it lapsed Mrs M and her late husbands policy.  
The policy requires a premium payment to be made within 30 days, or the policy will cease. 
The terms say:
If you dont make payment when it is due, the plan will continue providing cover for 
30 days. At the end of the 30-day period the plan will end and you wont get any of 
your payments back. If we accept a claim during the 30-day period under the terms 
of your plan, well deduct any due payment from the amount we pay.  
Although your plan will have formally ended and you will therefore have no 
rights under the plan [my emphasis], you can ask us to reinstate your cover up to 
60 days after your plan ended. To help us consider your request, well ask you for 
details about your health and activities. If we agree to reinstate your plan, you will 
need to send us a cheque for the payments you have missed. We do not have to 
reinstate your plan.  
I therefore think it was fair for Zurich to cancel the policy effective 1 October 2021  this 
being 30 days after the missed premium of 1 September 2021. 
I am satisfied that on the evidence set out above, Zurich was entitled after 30 days from the 
missed payment to deem the policy lapsed in accordance with the terms and conditions. The 
outstanding issue for me to consider is whether Zurichs subsequent actions from the date of 
the missed payment were either unfair or unreasonable. 
Though Zurich has been able to provide evidence it sent a lapse notification letter of 21 
September 2021, it hasnt retained a file copy of it  because its automated process did not 
allow it to do so. 
Whilst my view is that it would have been good practice to retain this letter, Zurich has been 
able to confirm the contents as they are a template issued to policyholders when a direct 
debit mandate collection has failed. On balance, I am persuaded Zurich issued the lapse 
letter on the date recorded within its system notes, with the template wording. 
Though we do not have evidence of a copy issued to Mr and Mrs M, Zurich says the letter 
stated:
We have been notified by your bank that they are unable to pay the monthly 
contribution due for the above policy and our direct debit has been returned unpaid.  
We value the fact that you chose this policy as an important part of your overall 
financial planning and we do not want you to lose any of its benefits by missing 
payment of your contributions., Under the terms of the policy, protection ceases if 
the contribution remains unpaid at the end of this month [my emphasis].
I cant say conclusively if this letter was received, and sadly, we cannot know for sure what 
happened. However, Zurich held the right address for Mr and Mrs M. And from the policys 
inception in 2016, annual policy statements had been issued to Mr and Mrs M at that 
address, so I dont think it was unreasonable to write to them in the same way.
I believe it likely a lapse letter was sent to Mrs M and the late Mr M. And I note the later letter 
of 11 November 2011 appears to have been correctly received.
I am also mindful that Zurich isnt contractually obliged to issue a lapse letter. The payment 
of the premiums was Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility. In return for the payment, Zurich had to 
provide the appropriate insurance cover, agreed from the outset in 2016. 
I believe that good practice should require notification of a missed payment, so policyholders 
have chance to put matters right. However, I dont agree that because the letter wasnt 
retained on file or that the second letter was only issued on 11 November 2021 that I should conclude Zurich is liable for Mrs Ms life assurance claim payment now.  
Even if I were to accept the September 2021 lapse letter was neither sent nor received, Mr 
and Mrs M would likely have known that their premium had not been successfully paid  
because their bank would also have been aware that collection via direct debit had failed. 
I recognise that Zurichs letter of 11 November 2021 merely said the protection provided by 
your policy has now ended  it did not say the relevant 30-day end date. But it didnt need 
to, because the first lapse letter had confirmed when the policy would end. 
The November letter did go on to explain how we will consider reinstatement of this policy 
within 90 days from the first missed contribution. The reinstatement will depend on your 
health at that time and payment of the missed contributions. 
That statement was correct in accordance with the policy terms. The 90 days (calculated as 
the 60 days from the date the policy ended on 1 October 2021) ran up to 30 November 
2021. However, I disagree that the 11 November 2021 letter is key to reinstatement. The 
right to cancel the cover is derived from the policy terms. 
Because the 1 September 2021 premium was uncollected due to lack of available funds, Mr 
and Mrs M ceased to be insured 30 days after that date. That remained the case unless they 
took remedial steps in paying the missed premium before 1 October 2021. Thereafter, they 
were subject to a review of any changes to their health or circumstances since they had 
become uninsured  and sadly, these had changed because Mr M had since passed away 
by the time of notification to Zurich. The 11 November 2021 letter merely reconfirmed that 
position, since Zurich hadnt heard further from Mr or Mrs M.   
I understand that the loss of cover came as a shock to Mrs M; I know her solicitor has 
explained that if she could have reinstated the cover, she would have done. I have 
absolutely no reason to doubt that. 
However, whilst Mrs M and the solicitor say she was unaware of any lapsed cover until she 
contacted Zurich in November 2021, I do not agree that this lack of knowledge has arisen 
from any unreasonable steps on Zurichs part. And that is key here; in order for me to 
conclude that Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably in cancelling the insurance, I would 
need to be persuaded that it has acted contrary to the policy terms set out above in denying 
Mrs M and her late husband the opportunity to reinstate their cover. 
I do not agree that any procedural step with the two letters of September and November 
2021 has been sufficiently inadequate such that I could hold Zurich accountable for Mrs Ms 
inability to make a claim when she came to notify it of Mr Ms death on 25 November 2021. 
Similarly, even if Mrs M had been aware sometime after the lapse but before Mr M passed 
away that she could apply to reinstate the cover subject to a declaration of health (DoH) 
form, this would have required information from Mr M about any changes to his health. To 
presume a claim payment was due on that basis would require me to presuppose that Zurich 
would allow reinstatement on medical terms  and Ive seen no clear evidence that it would 
have agreed to do so.  
It follows that I cannot agree that a backdated claim should be paid. Sadly, no insurance was 
in place at the date Mr M passed away  and Zurich was correct in refusing the claim 
because the policy had already lapsed, in accordance with its terms and conditions.  
Zurich confirmed it had no other comments to make.  Mrs Ms solicitor told us that Mrs M did not accept the decision.  
She said it was particularly upsetting to have an ombudsman reach a different outcome than 
the previous investigator. She reiterated that she never received any letters from Zurich  if 
she had done so, she would have moved money to cover the policy premiums. She also said 
that when she spoke with Zurich after Mr M had passed away, it suggested she shouldnt 
worry as she had until 1 November 2021 to reinstate the cover and Mr M had passed away 
on 31 October 2021.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for responding promptly to my provisional findings. I also thank them both 
for their for the further comments. 
However, none of the information Ive seen changes my view on the complaint. 
I realise it is incredibly upsetting for Mrs M that I have reached a different decision to our 
investigator. However, it is my role to review the complaint afresh  and having done so, I 
explained why I disagreed with the outcome previously reached. 
I have to be fair to both parties in a complaint, and Zurich disagreed with our investigator, 
which meant it asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. If it is of assistance 
for Mrs M, she can find further information about our process on our website at: 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/who-we-are/make-decisions. 
Though Mrs M now says she did not receive any letters, the previous evidence Ive seen 
showed that she said the first letter did not arrive but the later letter of 11 November 2011 
appeared to have been correctly received and confirmed as such. 
Nonetheless, I also explained that I believed the lapse letter was likely received; I was 
satisfied Zurichs records showed it was sent on 21 September 2021. Furthermore, Mr and 
Mrs M would likely have known that their premium had not been successfully paid  because 
their collection via direct debit had failed, for which they would or should have been notified 
by their bank. The 1 September 2021 premium was uncollected due to lack of available 
funds, which meant unless Mr and Mrs M took remedial steps in paying the missed premium 
before 1 October 2021, their cover would cease. It is incredible unfortunate that Mrs M was 
not able to do so  but I cannot hold Zurich accountable for that. 
I havent seen any objective evidence that Mrs M was told the cover was in place until 1 
November 2021. However, what I believe she is referring to is the prospect of reinstatement, 
which I also addressed in my provisional findings. The extract from the November 2021 letter 
correctly told Mrs M how Zurich would consider reinstatement up to 90 days from the missed 
premium (so in this case, up to 30 November 2021).
Zurich would allow consideration of reinstatement subject to a subject to a DoH  but this 
would have needed information from Mr and Mrs M about any changes to their health. Mrs M 
did contact Zurich during the possible reinstatement period, but this was a few weeks after 
Mr M had sadly passed away and so, reinstatement of the lapsed cover was not possible. 
My final decision
I am unable to uphold this complaint or make any award against Zurich Assurance Ltd  it could not pay Mrs Ms life assurance claim under her lapsed policy, for the reasons Ive 
explained in my provisional decision and reiterated in this final decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman