DRN-3345171
The complaint
Mr L has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 15 February 2022. For ease Ive copied the relevant 
extracts below. I said:
What happened
Mr L was driving his car when there was an incident in which Mr L says another driver (the 
third party) clipped his wingmirror. Mr L didn't claim for the minor damage to his car. Some 
months later UKI contacted Mr L and told him that the third partys insurer had repaired the 
other drivers car and was claiming from his policy to cover the cost of repairing the damage. 
Mr L said that any damage to the third partys car was pre-existing. Mr L offered UKI the 
opportunity to inspect his car but also told UKI he intended to sell it soon.
UKI eventually offered to settle the other drivers claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. Mr L 
wasn't happy with that and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into 
it. She didn't think UKI had done anything wrong. Mr L didn't agree so his complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
While I've been considering the complaint UKIs told us that the third party insurer has now 
issued proceedings to have the question of whos at fault for the incident decided in court.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its likely Ill uphold it.
Mr L is clearly unhappy both with UKIs investigation into this claim and also with its offer to 
the third party insurer to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. But, since he made 
his complaint things have moved on and the question of liability, that is whos at fault for the 
incident and whether or not that liability should be shared, will now be decided in court. And, 
where a matter will be decided in a court it's not something that I can also consider 
separately. So I dont intend to comment about the question of liability as a court will decide 
that issue.
Did an accident take place?
In response to our investigators assessment of the complaint Mr L said that no accident had 
happened. But Mr Ls own account is that the third partys car clipped his wingmirror. That is 
an accident, regardless of how minor it might have been. And given that UKI received a 
claim from the third party insurer it had a duty to deal with that claim.
Did UKI do enough to investigate the claim?
In this case both drivers gave completely different versions of how the incident occurred. 
Mr L said he was driving forwards when the third party tried to undertake him and the cars 
touched. The third party said the incident happened while Mr L was turning right into her lane 
while she was driving forwards and he hit her front drivers side wing. But there was no 
CCTV or independent witness evidence that could show how the accident had actually 
happened.
Mr L said that only his wingmirror came into contact with the third partys car. But he noticed 
at the time that her car had damage to its front wing. He said the third party told him that 
damage had happened previously. And if that was the case then it wouldn't be fair for the 
costs associated with repairing that to be met by a claim on Mr Ls policy.
Mr L provided photos of his car which he believes show that it didn't cause the damage to 
the third partys car. And he also offered UKI the chance to inspect his car before it was sold. 
UKI didn't carry out any kind of inspection. I don't think that was fair. If the cars had come 
together as the third party alleged, I would have expected there to be some sign of damage, 
even if that was just a scuff, to Mr Ls car. And, if his car didn't show any damage consistent 
with the claims of the third party, then I think UKI could have used that evidence in its 
defence of the third partys claim.
UKI said that, owing to the restrictions caused by the pandemic, at that time it wasn't 
sending its engineers out to inspect cars. While I wouldn't take issue with UKI wanting to 
ensure the safety of its staff, it's not at all clear why UKI couldn't arrange a socially distanced 
assessment of Mr Ls car. I'm aware Mr L had told UKI he was about to sell his car, which 
UKI believes would have prevented such an inspection. But Mr Ls said that he didnt sell his 
car immediately; so UKI could have had the opportunity to inspect it. And, at the very least, 
given that Mr L disputed causing any damage to the third partys car, I think UKI could have 
asked Mr L to send it detailed photos of his car. That would have allowed UKI to do a 
desktop inspection and compare those images with photos of damage to the third partys car 
to see if the two were consistent.
The third partys allegation is that Mr Ls car hit hers while he was turning right and she was 
driving straight ahead with Mr Ls car almost at a right angle to her car at the time. In those 
circumstances it seems most likely that any damage to Mr Ls car would have been to the 
front bumper and/or to its passenger side front wing. So I would have expected UKI to 
advise Mr L to take date-stamped detailed photos of those parts of his car. And to take other 
images with the cars registration plate in it. But UKI didn't give Mr L that advice, in fact it 
didn't consider any form of inspection whatsoever.
Mr L did send UKI some photos of his car. Those are of the passenger side of his car, and 
only show a very small mark on the wingmirror. But, as far as I'm aware, Mr L doesn't have 
images of the front of his car or of the part of the wing in front of the passenger side front 
wheel. And without those images the third party insurer might argue that the photos Mr Ls 
sent in don't show that the accident didn't take place as its policyholder has said.
Ill add that UKI has said on more than one occasion that it had no reason to inspect Mr Ls 
car because the damage wasn't disputed. But that is simply wrong. Mr L said from the outset 
that the only damage hed seen to the third partys car was pre-existing. So he was clearly 
disputing that the accident did the damage that the third party was claiming for. And in those 
circumstances, as I've indicated above, I think UKI should have done some form of consistency report to establish if the two cars came together as the third party alleged. But 
given that UKI didnt do that inspection we can't now know, with any certainty, what an 
inspection of that nature would have revealed. But Mr L might well believe that his chances 
in court are weaker because of the lack of a consistency report. To address his distress and 
inconvenience resulting from that I think UKI should pay him £500 compensation.
Neither UKI nor Mr L provided any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither UKI nor Mr L objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr L £500 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman