DRN-3453695
The complaint
Mr Y complains about Nationwide Building Society and their failure to make him aware a 
card reader would be required when he switched accounts. Mr Y is also unhappy with the 
length of time it took for him to receive this card reader.
What happened
In early September 2021, Mr Y applied to switch his current account from his previous bank, 
lender T, to Nationwide. He applied to do this using the Current Account Switch Service. 
Nationwide accepted this request, and the switch was completed on 22 September.
But the day before this Mr Y spoke to Nationwide explaining a reader hadnt be received. 
Nationwide advised a reader had been sent so they were unable to speculate on why it 
wasnt received. And they issued Mr Y with a new card reader. But Mr Y was unhappy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr Y didnt think Nationwide had made it clear before or during the switching process that a 
card reader would be needed to send payments online. And he said if they had, he wouldnt 
have switched his account. Mr Y was also unhappy with the length of time it took for him to 
receive a reader, and the inconvenience this caused. So, he wanted Nationwide to accept 
the information they provided wasnt reasonably clear and compensate him for the upset this 
caused.
Nationwide responded and didnt agree. They explained the card reader was sent to Mr Y 
and so, any issue with delivery wouldve been the responsibility of the postal service, rather 
than them. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr Y remained unhappy 
with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
When communicating with our service, Nationwide also expressed their belief that theyd 
made the need for a card reader reasonably clear in their welcome letter, terms and 
conditions and website. So, they didnt think theyd failed to provide Mr Y with adequate 
notification that a reader would be required.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Nationwide had 
made it reasonably clear within their terms and conditions and welcome letter than a card 
reader may be needed. And they didnt think Nationwide were responsible for Mr Y not 
receiving one earlier. So, they didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything more.
Mr Y didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair to rely on the terms and conditions as he didnt 
think this made the need for a reader reasonably clear when he didnt think it was standard 
industry practice for one to be used any longer. And Mr Y explained his belief that 
Nationwide wouldve assumed he still had the card reader they gave him when he had his 
previous account held with them in 2014, and this is why he didnt receive one until he 
chased its whereabouts. So, he maintained his belief that Nationwide had acted unfairly.
Mr Ys comments didnt change our investigators opinion. And they thought Mr Y wouldve 
had an awareness of Nationwides use of a card reader, as hed held an account with them 
previously. So, they maintained their view that Nationwide didnt need to anything more. 
Again, Mr Y provided comments as he didnt agree. He explained it was unreasonable to 
expect him to know card readers were still required, due to the length of time since he first 
held an account with Nationwide. And he reiterated his belief Nationwide needed to do more 
to make customers aware of this. Mr Y also didnt think it was fair for Nationwides system to 
need verification from the card reader for payments to established payees transferred across 
from his account with lender T. As Mr Y didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr Y. I recognise Mr Ys 
annoyance that a card reader is required to complete some online payments. And I dont 
dispute Mr Ys testimony that he wasnt aware of this himself when he decided to apply for 
an account switch. So, I can understand why Mr Y believes Nationwide shouldve done more 
to communicate this with him. And, as Mr Y didnt receive his reader in time for when the 
switch completed, I can understand why he wants to be compensated for the inconvenience 
this caused when he was unable to complete online payments for a certain amount of time.
But for me to say Nationwide have done something wrong, Id need to see evidence that 
satisfies me that Nationwide failed to advertise the need for a card reader to such an extent 
that I believe they did this purposefully to mis-lead customers into switching into an account 
with them. And regarding the reader, Id need to see evidence to show that Mr Ys failure to 
receive a reader was because of an error they made. And in this situation, I dont think thats 
the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain exactly 
what Ive been able to consider, and when. Im aware a large part of Mr Ys complaint refers 
to Nationwides advertisement of the need for a card reader with the account Mr Y holds. But 
there are no rules or regulation set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, 
that states how prominent this information needs to be. And as Nationwides decisions on 
advertising are part of their marketing process, this isnt something our service is able to 
comment upon or ask Nationwide to change.
But I would expect a customer who is looking to open an account with a bank to have 
researched this account before taking this decision to ensure it suited their needs. And Ive 
seen the need for a card reader is readily available and easily identifiable on Nationwides 
website. So, I think Mr Y was able to access this information.
And I would expect there to be references to the card reader in the account information Mr Y 
was provided during the switch. So, the terms and conditions of the account and any 
communication sent alongside this. I can see in the welcome letter Mr Y wouldve been sent, 
it stated clearly Over the next few days, well be sending you the followinga card reader, if 
you need one. So, Im satisfied the potential need for a card reader was reference. And in 
the terms and conditions of the account it explains We need to check the payment
request has come from you. We do this by asking using a combination of your log in/securitydetails, biometric information, the card reader, your mobile device, and any security codes,
and confirming the details of the payment you wish to make. So, Im satisfied Nationwide 
have acted in line with the agreement Mr Y entered when opening the account when issuing 
a card reader for it to be used for online payments where necessary. Because of this, I cant 
say theyve done anything wrong here.
Im aware Mr Y has also disputed the need for the card reader to make payments to payees 
already verified on his account when it was switched from lender T. And I recognise 
Nationwides website explains a reader is usually only required to set up new 
payments/payees. But I dont think this means Nationwide have done anything wrong here. 
Nationwide have a duty to protect a customers account when they make online payments. 
And although Mr Ys payees were ported across from his previous account, this wouldve 
been the first time he made a payment to his friends and family from his Nationwide account. 
So, I dont think Nationwide have acted unreasonably when requiring a code from Mr Ys 
card reader to ensure the payment authenticity in that situation. Thats not to say I dont 
understand Mr Ys frustration, and the inconvenience this caused.
Finally, Ive thought about the delay in Mr Y receiving his card reader. Mr Y thinks 
Nationwide purposefully didnt send a card reader as they were likely to have assumed he 
still had one from his previous account some years before. But Ive no evidence to suggest 
this is the case. Nationwide have confirmed that, as Mr Ys account was online only, a card 
reader was mandatory and wouldve been sent out in preparation for the switch completion. 
And I can see from Nationwides system note that Mr Ys new reader was sent out as a 
replacement, as the previous reader had been undelivered. So, from the evidence available 
to me, I think its reasonably to me assume on the balance of probability that Nationwide did 
send a card reader to Mr Y in time for the switch completion. And so, I dont think it would be 
fair for me to hold them reasonable for the failure in delivery, as this was something outside 
of Nationwides control.
I think Nationwide acted reasonably, and promptly, by arranging for another reader to be 
sent to minimise the time Mr Y was unable to make payments to friends and family. I cant 
see any information that suggests the lack of card reader led to a financial loss, or any 
missed mandatory payments such as bills, and so I havent consider any financial impact as 
part of this decision.
So, because of the above, I dont think Nationwide need to do anything more. I understand 
this isnt the outcome Mr Y was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt help alleviate Mr Ys 
annoyance about the need for a card reader to make certain payments. But the use of a card 
reader is apart of Nationwides security process and one they are entitled to use and 
enforce, whether it falls in line with the industry norm or not.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman