DRN-4367271
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that a payment they wanted to make for an investment was blocked 
by HSBC UK Bank Plc and about what they felt was intrusive questioning of both of them 
before the payment was released.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr and Mrs D attempted to make a payment from their joint account to 
an intermediary in respect of an investment. The payment was blocked by HSBC's fraud 
team and Mr and Mrs D were asked to contact the team. Mr D spoke to an adviser for over 
forty minutes. He thought that he was asked repeatedly a number of inappropriate questions. 
He further complained that the adviser didn't know anything about the type of investment he 
was making and that they refused to carry out online research about the company he was 
paying the money to.
The adviser told Mr D that they were releasing the payment, but Mr D was later contacted by 
HSBC and was told to complete the transaction in branch. Mr and Mrs D attended their 
branch the next day and the money was released. However Mr D says that Mrs D was again 
subjected to intrusive questioning about the investment.
Mr D raised a formal complaint with HSBC. It explained that in accordance with the code 
known as the contingent reimbursement model (CRM) if a payment is held for further checks 
its representatives are obliged to ask a series of questions so as to be certain that releasing 
the payment won't leave the customer or the bank exposed financially. It stood by the 
decision of its fraud team. It offered to pay £30 to Mr and Mrs D for the inconvenience of the 
advisers phone call when they were told the money would be released
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that HSBC had acted 
appropriately, although Mr and Mrs D should not have been told that the money would be 
released at the end of the call with the adviser. She proposed that HSBC provide a written 
apology and pay the £30 compensation.
HSBC agreed to our Investigators proposal, but Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy and asked 
for the matter to be referred to an Ombudsman. The matter has been referred to me for 
further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the CRM which HSBC followed in this case, the starting principle is that 
banks must reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment (APP) 
scams. In Mr and Mrs D's case the payment they were making, which was of a substantial 
amount, was initially blocked by HSBC's fraud team, because it was thought it could be an 
APP scam. This meant that Mr D had to speak to HSBC's adviser whose job it was to 
establish that he and Mrs D were not the victims of a scam. I am aware, having listened to 
the call, that Mr D was asked a number of questions to establish that he was sufficiently 
aware of who he was paying and what the investment was for. I'm also aware that the 
adviser did go through the questions a number of times.
The purpose of the call was to establish whether there was a possible fraud. HSBC has said 
that the factors that may trigger this type of investigation are commercially sensitive, on the 
telephone recording I could hear that the adviser asked Mr D in particular why the payment 
was to an, on the face of it, personal account of the intermediary rather than to the company 
he was placing the investment with. And she did alert him to other issues such as when a 
fraudster asks the customer to make a small payment followed by a large payment (which is 
what happened here). But it was not HSBC's advisers function to carry out research into the 
investment company or the intermediary. Nor was it their function to establish whether it was 
an appropriate investment. In Mr D's case I understand that he was fully aware of what he 
was doing but also that he was aware of the need for such security checks. As the adviser 
did not know anything about the particular investment or about Mr and Mrs D's personal 
circumstances or their knowledge (nor would I have expected them to), I can't say that the 
questions they asked were not appropriate in the circumstances.
I understand that the adviser told Mr D that the money would be released at the end of the 
conversation. Clearly they shouldn't have done that as the transaction still had to go through 
a further security check. But, although I know that Mr and Mrs D found it inconvenient to 
have to visit the branch of the bank, I don't think that this could have been avoided given the 
number of issues around the payment. I'm aware also that Mr and Mrs D were annoyed that 
Mrs D was then subjected to further questioning, but I also dont think that could reasonably 
have been avoided.
I've also noted that Mr and Mrs D's account was blocked after the call with the adviser. I 
recognise that this was annoying, But I also think that until the transaction was established 
as being genuine this was a necessary step to take. As the account was able to be 
unblocked the next day I haven't seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs D were blocked from 
making any particular payments.
I note Mr D's point that HSBC was protecting itself in case the transaction was fraudulent. 
That is no doubt right but at the same time the purpose of the CRM is to protect consumers 
as well.
I think in the circumstances of this case that the payment of £30 for the inconvenience 
caused as a result of being told the payment would be released, and for HSBC to provide an 
apology, is appropriate.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs D £30 compensation, if it has not already done so.
HSBC should also provide a written apology to Mr and Mrs D for the inconvenience caused 
as a result of the phone call with its adviser on 21 November 2022.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman