DRN-1607280
 
The complaint
Mr L complains about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc dealt with a transfer he made 
from his savings account.
What happened
On 4 October 2019 Mr L contacted RBS to instruct it to transfer £5000 directly from his 
Instant Saver Account to an account that he held with a different bank, which Ill refer to as 
V in this decision. However, his funds were transferred from his savings account to his 
RBS current account.
Mr L was unhappy with what happened. He said he wasnt informed his funds would be 
transferred to his current account first. And he said if hed been aware of that he wouldnt 
have made the transfer. He stated he didnt want his funds being transferred into his RBS 
current account because he uses that account to receive disability benefit payments. And he 
was worried the transfer would impact on his benefit payments so he complained to RBS 
about what happened. 
When RBS investigated Mr Ls complaint it accepted he wasnt informed that in order to 
make his transfer to V it would have to be transferred initially to his RBS current account. It 
apologised for not providing that information and credited his account with £35 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience hed experience. It also credited his 
account with £10.80 towards the cost of telephone calls Mr L made in discussing his 
concerns with RBS.
Being dissatisfied with RBS response to his complaint Mr L referred it to our service. He 
believed that the compensation RBS had paid wasnt enough because of the trouble and 
upset hed been caused. Our investigator looked into this complaint and felt the 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable given the circumstances. And they told Mr L 
they couldnt fairly ask RBS to do anything more here. But Mr L disagreed and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr L so Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr L experienced while trying to transfer his payment. I 
can appreciate that this caused him distress and inconvenience. I recognise that he wanted 
to transfer his funds directly from his savings account to the account he held with V. 
However, this wasnt possible due to changes RBS implemented October 2019.Ive seen evidence that, from 1 October 2019, RBS stopped its customers being able to 
transfer money directly from savings account to another account elsewhere. Its changes 
meant that if a customer wanted to transfer funds from their savings account they had to, 
first of all, transfer it their current RBS account.
Mr L instructed RBS to make his transfer after this change took effect. So, Im satisfied RBS 
effected his transfer in line with the terms and conditions of his account. 
RBS has accepted that it should have told Mr L that it had to transfer his money to his 
current account initially  instead of directly to V as he wanted. And its already paid him £35 
to reflect that fact that it should have provided him with more information about how his 
funds would be transferred. I can see its also paid him £10.80 to cover his telephone 
expenses in discussing his complaint with RBS. 
Its clear Mr L doesnt think the sums paid adequately reflects his inconvenience and 
experience. So Ive considered whether the remedy RBS offered is fair and reasonable. 
We arent here to punish businesses and, when deciding what potential compensation to 
award our service must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any 
business error and non-financial loss, including inconvenience and upset. 
I can see our investigator has explained to Mr L that our service has to consider what 
actually happened. So, we cant award compensation based on hypothetical and speculative 
situations.
While I understand the benefits office queried the transfer that credited Mr Ls RBS current 
account Im pleased to see his benefit payments werent affected. Im also aware that Mr Ls 
payment reached V the day it was transferred. There was no delay. And Im satisfied that Mr 
L hasnt lost out financially as a result of what happened.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss, there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions 
have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, how much 
would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Having thought carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr L, Im satisfied that the £35 
trouble and upset award already paid by RBS is a reasonable amount. Its in line with our 
approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have told RBS to pay had no 
compensation been offered. 
Im also persuaded that the £10.80 payment RBS made towards Mr Ls telephone expenses 
is a reasonable sum to recognise the cost of the phone call he made in trying to resolve his 
complaint. I have listened to the calls Mr L made to RBS to discuss his concerns. And I think 
£10.80 is reasonable to cover the cost of those calls. I havent seen any evidence that shows 
Mr L incurred expenses over and above that amount. So, I cant fairly say a higher award is 
warranted here.
So, while Mr L may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation RBS has already 
paid fairly recognises the impact its error had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. I 
understand he will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with RBS informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr L 
any further with this.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17September2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman