DRN-4163172
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited didnt offer her continued cover 
following a subsidence claim.
Reference to Mrs D includes her representative.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs D held a home insurance policy underwritten by Highway. It was taken out 
through a broker, who Ill call A.
Mrs D made a claim for subsidence in 2020, which Highway accepted and settled.
The policy renewed in 2021 and 2022. A remained the broker and Highway the 
insurer at those renewals.
Prior to the 2023 renewal, A said Highway was no longer on its panel of insurers, so 
it couldnt offer a Highway policy to Mrs D. Highway didnt agree to offer a policy to 
Mrs D directly. A offered Mrs D a policy with another insurer, but this was over three 
times more expensive than her Highway policy.
Mrs D didnt think this was fair. She was in the process of selling her house, and had 
accepted an offer, but the buyer withdrew the offer when Highway refused to provide 
continued cover for the home.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said guidance from the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) meant Highway should offer continued cover to 
Mrs D on reasonable terms. It should also extend this offer to a new buyer, bearing in 
mind Mrs D had plans to sell her home. She asked Highway to do this and pay £100 
compensation for the way it had handled things.
Mrs D agreed, but asked for compensation to be increased to £5,000 because she 
said she had to reduce the asking price for her home after the sale fell through.
Highway didnt agree. In summary, it said:
oIt was physically unable to offer renewal terms because it no longer had a 
relationship with A and its system wont allow it.
oIt noted the ABI guidance isnt legally binding and it says there may be 
circumstances where continuation of cover isnt possible. It also says all 
decisions remain at the discretion of the individual insurer.
oThis Service doesnt have the power to make an insurer offer a policy to a 
particular consumer.
Our investigator was satisfied the compensation she suggested was reasonable for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs D. She said any financial loss Mrs D 
thought shed suffered as a result of what happened would need to be raised with 
Highway directly initially. She stood by her findings about continued cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is solely about Highway and its actions as underwriter of the policy. 
Its not about the broker, A, or the other insurer that offered a more expensive policy. 
So I havent considered those other businesses and will focus on Highway. 
Once a property has suffered subsidence, its usually significantly more difficult to 
insure on normal terms. Generally, consumers are likely to find insurers dont offer 
cover at all. Or, if they do, only at a considerably increased premium and/or excess. 
As a result, it can be very difficult for consumers in these circumstances to find home 
insurance which provides subsidence cover at an affordable price.
Thats why the ABI provides guidance to insurers within the home insurance industry 
about this. In summary, if an insurer deals with a subsidence claim for a policyholder, 
the guidance says its usually good practice for the insurer to offer continuous home 
insurance, including subsidence cover, on reasonable terms. But it notes that all 
decisions on pricing and terms and conditions remain at the discretion of individual 
insurers. And there may be situations in which an insurer wouldnt be expected to 
offer continued cover  although this is rare.
Im satisfied this Service has the power to require an insurer to offer a policy to a 
consumer. Highway hasnt raised any DISP rules or other reasons that might prevent 
or limit our power to do this.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Highway 
to offer continued cover in the circumstances of this case. Im satisfied it would be. Ill 
explain why.
I agree this guidance isnt legally binding. Its not a rule or regulation. But its provided 
by the ABI to its members which, according to the ABIs website, includes Highway. 
ABI members make up the majority of the UK home insurance industry. I consider 
that means the guidance is reflective of good industry practice. And I understand its 
been routinely followed for many years, if not decades, by home insurers. So Im 
satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Highway to follow the guidance.
The guidance notes insurers cant guarantee to maintain cover in all circumstances, 
although it doesnt give any specific examples of when this might be. However, it 
says even in problem cases, cover should be provided wherever possible. In my 
view, this means insurers should offer cover unless they can present a compelling 
reason not to. Generally, I think a compelling reason is one that would place the risk 
significantly outside of the insurers usual underwriting criteria  but not in relation to 
subsidence, as thats what the industry guidance is seeking to remedy.
The only reason Highway has put forward for why it cant offer continued cover is the 
end of its relationship with A. But Highway remains an insurer operating in the home 
insurance market, so Im satisfied its able to offer a policy to Mrs D without doing so through A. If that creates system challenges for Highway, it will have to find a way to 
overcome them. I bear in mind that the aim of the guidance is to seek to maintain 
cover where possible. System limitations should not be a barrier to achieving this aim 
 or to providing a fair and reasonable outcome for Mrs D.
The purpose of the guidance is for the insurer who dealt with the subsidence claim to 
offer continued home insurance cover, including subsidence, on reasonable terms, to 
ensure consumers are still able to access this cover after a claim. When Highway 
offers a policy to Mrs D, it should bear this in mind.
The guidance says it would be good practice to extend the arrangement of continued 
cover to a purchaser, subject to satisfactory information about the new owners. I 
understand that to mean the insurer should offer cover unless they can present a 
compelling reason not to, in line with the comments above. Again, Highway should 
keep this in mind.
Im satisfied the way Highway has acted by not following the ABI guidance has 
caused Mrs D avoidable distress and inconvenience. Shes been without insurance 
for a number of months now and I expect thats given her cause for concern. I think 
£100 compensation is reasonable in these circumstances.
Mrs D has suggested that she may lose out financially as a result of the way Highway 
has acted. Its possible shell sell the house for less than she might have been able to 
had Highway offered continued cover earlier. I havent considered this point as it 
didnt form part of Mrs Ds original complaint  and such a loss is yet to happen. If it 
does, Mrs D is entitled to raise that with Highway for it to consider.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Highway Insurance Company Limited to:
Provide ongoing subsidence cover, as set out above.
Pay £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman