DRN-4263588
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc is not refunding her, as the receiving bank, after 
she says she was the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
Mrs K has used a Claims Management Company (CMC) to bring her complaint to both 
HSBC and our service. 
What happened
Mrs K transferred amounts of £10,000 and £8,000 to an account held at HSBC. She later 
raised a claim with her bank saying she made the payments as part of a scam. The CMC 
brought the complaint to our service saying HSBC was responsible for the following reasons:
- it failed during its account opening process to identify its customer was a fraudster; 
- it failed to identify suspicious account activity which could have prevented Mrs Ks 
losses; and
- it failed to act quickly and take appropriate actions when it was notified about the 
scam.
HSBC looked into the claim. It said at the time it carried out the relevant account opening 
checks. Its internal fraud systems did not detect these payments for a number of reasons. It 
wasnt accepting liability for the scam and not offering any reimbursement under the CRM 
code.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said shed considered HSBCs obligations 
and its decision not to refund Mrs K in line with its application of the CRM code. She said:
- She couldnt consider the account opening process here. As she had received 
evidence about the date the account was opened and she was satisfied we didnt 
have the jurisdiction to consider this element of the complaint. 
- There wasnt anything about the account activity that did or ought to have given 
HSBC cause for concern and intervened and therefore prevented Mrs Ks losses. 
- By the time the scam was reported the funds had already been removed from the 
account so HSBC couldnt recover Mrs Ks money in response to the scam claim.
Mrs Ks CMC asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. 
DISP 2.7.6R(2B) is applicable where the consumer has been the victim of an Authorised 
Puah Payment (APP) scam. As Ive concluded in another linked decision, I havent been 
persuaded that Mrs K was the victim of an APP scam. But HSBC has considered the 
complaint as if she was. So, I have considered its consideration of her complaint and its 
application of the CRM in doing so.
To clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of HSBC  as the Receiving Firm of the 
accounts where Mrs K made payments to.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like HSBC, are required to conduct 
their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to 
comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing of 
terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that HSBC agreed to
abide by the principles of.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm SF2 Receiving Firms should take
reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being used to launder the proceeds of APP
scams. This should include procedures to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds
from APP scams. Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that
they may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond in a
timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures
set out in the Best Practice Standards.In considering all of the above, and to determine if HSBC met the standards required of it
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether there was anything in the way the account 
was being used that should have given HSBC any cause for concern and finally; once 
notified of fraud did it act appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were 
failings in relation to any of the above, I have to consider whether HSBCs acts or omissions 
fairly resulted in Mrs Ks losses.
I would like to point out that at this point, that while HSBC has provided our service with
information about the receiving bank account  it has done so in confidence. This is to allow
us to discharge our investigatory functions and HSBC has provided that which is necessary
for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service cant share
any information about the beneficiaries, the receiving bank account or any investigation and
action HSBC subsequently took. However, I would like to assure Mrs K I have thoroughly
reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my decision.
Prevention  the account opening process
As the investigator set out, we cant consider the account opening element of the complaint. 
Because the account was opened prior to 31 January 2019 we cant look at HSBCs acts or 
omissions with regards to the account opening. This is because DISP 2.7.6R(2B) which 
enables a payer to complain about the receiving bank, is limited to acts or omissions on or 
after the 31 January 2019. 
Detection  account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Prior to the payments from Mrs K, I cant see that there was any suspicious activity
on the account that means HSBC failed to prevent or detect the receipt of fraudulent funds.
Im also satisfied there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payments 
Mrs K made into the account and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued 
that HSBC might have had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their
customers payment instructions.
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also
dont think HSBC ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it to
have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mrs Ks losses in
this way either.
Response to the notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds
remain for recovery.
Unfortunately, Mrs Ks funds had already been moved on by the time it was
notified. So, Im satisfied HSBC couldnt have done anything to prevent Mrs Ks
losses.So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud,
HSBC responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards.
And I dont think I can fairly say HSBC didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP
fraud.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC met the standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also 
dont think HSBC couldve done anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the 
loss of Mrs Ks money. And it responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs K, but Im satisfied that HSBC
doesnt need to refund him for her losses
.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman