DRN-4237669
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) declined a claim he made under his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Whilst travelling, Mr D left his wallet (containing cash) and his watch in the airport security 
area, and when he returned to the security area shortly after, they were no longer there.
Mr D has a travel insurance policy underwritten by Chubb, so he contacted them to make a 
claim for the missing items.
Chubb declined Mr Ds claim. They said Mr D had left the items unattended, which is an 
exclusion under his travel insurance policy. As Mr D was unhappy with Chubbs claim 
decision, he approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Chubb 
had acted fairly by relying on the exclusion to decline the claim.
Mr D didnt agree and the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr D, Ive reached 
the same outcome as our investigator.
When travelling through airport security, Mr D had to remove his watch and wallet from his 
pocket. He placed these in the security trays, and it wasnt until he left the security area that 
Mr D realised he hadnt picked up the items. On returning to the security area, the wallet and 
watch couldnt be found.
Mr Ds travel insurance policy with Chubb provides cover for valuables, personal effects and 
money, however, the policy also contains the following exclusions:
Section 7  Personal Effects & Baggage
What is not covered
2. Loss or theft of Valuables left Unattended unless contained in a locked safe or 
safety deposit box.
3. Loss or theft of any Personal Property (other than Valuables) left Unattended 
unless: 
A. contained in
i)  a locked room; or 
ii) a locked safe or safety deposit box;
And:
Section 10 - Personal Money
What is not covered
2. Loss or theft of Money left Unattended unless contained in a locked safe or safety 
deposit box.
And unattended is defined as:
Unattended
Where You are not in full view of or in a position to prevent unauthorised taking or 
interference with Your Personal Property or vehicle
As Mr D left his items behind and then left the security area, they were unattended when the 
loss happened. So, I think Chubb has acted fairly by relying on the above policy exclusion to 
decline Mr Ds claim. 
Mr D has said there wasnt a safety deposit box to place his items in at the time. I accept 
that. However, Mr D left the items behind when he left the security area, so they were no 
longer in his view or control and its leaving them unattended that caused the loss, so I dont 
think Chubb has acted unfairly by declining the claim based on the exclusion outlined above.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman