DRN-4095704
The complaint
Ms B complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (trading at the time as 
Scottish Amicable) failed to provide her with appropriate advice, or information, regarding the 
payment of additional contributions to her pension savings.
What happened
Ms Bs dealings were with Scottish Amicable. That firm now forms part of Prudential, so it is 
Prudential that needs to deal with Ms Bs complaint. For ease in this decision I will simply 
refer to the business as Prudential throughout.
Ms B has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company. Again 
for ease, in this decision, I will treat all communications as if they have been with, and from, 
Ms B herself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. In that decision I explained why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Ms B is a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In May 1999 she 
discussed her retirement provision with Prudential, and received some advice from 
the firm the following month. In brief, Prudential advised Ms B that she should start 
making free-standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) to a new pension 
plan with the firm. Ms B accepted that advice, and the new pension plan 
commenced.
Ms B has complained that the advice she received was unsuitable. In particular she 
says that Prudential failed to give her sufficient information about paying additional 
voluntary contributions (AVCs) to her OPS instead. She says that the FSAVC plan 
would have been worse value for her circumstances, and Prudential hasnt shown 
any other reason why she would have not taken the AVC option instead.
The advice was provided to Ms B by Prudential in 1999. So the relevant regulatory 
guidance was contained in the May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which was 
produced by the Personal Investment Authority, one of the predecessors of the 
current regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. RU20 gave guidance on the 
procedures for advising clients on the relative merits of FSAVCs and AVCs provided 
by occupational pension schemes. The guidance set out different requirements 
depending on whether the adviser was an independent financial adviser or a tied 
adviser  one who is employed by, or contracted to, one organisation and can only 
recommend and sell that organisations products. In this case the adviser was tied.
For tied advisers, RU 20 indicated that before selling an FSAVC advisers should:
draw the clients attention to the in-house alternative;
discuss the generic differences between the two routes (taking account, 
among other things, of the features described in this article); and
direct the client to his employer, or to the OPS, for more information on the 
in-house option.
Among the features referred to in the article were that charges under in-house AVCs 
would usually be lower. In particular the article said;
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under 
FSAVCs, reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution 
to administration expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between 
the two routes, this is likely to exert the greatest impact on which route would 
offer the greater benefits to the client
The regulator indicated that it would expect the advice file to have documentary 
evidence demonstrating that the procedures in the update had been followed.
So Prudential needed to make Ms B aware of the in-house AVC and to discuss the 
generic features of the in-house options and of the FSAVC. The key difference 
I wouldve expected Prudential to discuss with Ms B would be the likelihood of lower 
charges for the in-house AVC. I would also expect Ms B to have been directed to her 
employer and/or occupational pension scheme trustee to obtain more information on 
her in-house options
The advice process appears to have been in two parts. Prudential initially met with 
Ms B in May 1999. In that meeting it gathered details about Ms Bs financial 
circumstances and no doubt discussed her requirement to make additional provision 
for her retirement. And then, around a month later, Prudential provided Ms B with a 
report summarising their discussions and recommending that she start paying into 
the FSAVC plan.
I think what Prudential said in its report is important, so I replicate the section relating 
to the in-house AVC scheme below. It said;
We discussed the advantages and disadvantages of making Additional 
Voluntary Contributions to your company scheme or taking a separate Free 
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution. You are aware that there may be 
the possibility of buying past years or having added year options within the 
company scheme, however you are particularly attracted to the flexibility of a 
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution. This flexibility included 
portability and wider investment choice, together with the option of taking the 
benefits from this Free Standing AVC early, if you left your current employer, 
whereas you could not with an AVC. The charges within this plan however 
are likely to be greater than under your company scheme. You can obtain 
more information on your company scheme from your Employers or Scheme 
Trustees.
I think it unlikely that Prudential would have included information in its financial 
planning report that had not previously been discussed with Ms B. But there was an 
additional period of around three weeks between the date of the report, and it being 
signed by Ms B. And on the same day she signed the report, Ms B completed her 
application for the FSAVC plan.It is possible that the report wasnt provided to Ms B until the day it was signed. But if 
the report contained new information, that she wasnt previously aware of, I think 
Ms B might have delayed signing the application form. Instead I think it more likely 
that the report simply confirmed the earlier discussions, or at the very least the three 
weeks between the date of the report, and the application form being signed, 
provided Ms B with the opportunity to make further enquiries about the AVC scheme.
I think it is important to note that Prudential was under no obligation to provide Ms B 
with specific information about the AVC scheme. As Ive noted above, the regulators 
requirement was for the provision of generic information. I think the paragraph above 
does suggest that the regulatory requirements were met. Ms B was made aware 
about the availability of the in-house AVC scheme, including the options to buy 
Past Added Years or an AVC plan. She was also made aware, in generic terms, of 
the advantages and disadvantages of starting a FSAVC plan compared to the 
in-house option, including the likely lower charges of the in-house AVC scheme. 
Finally, Prudential also explained that Ms B could obtain more information from her 
employer or occupational pension scheme trustees.
It wasnt for Prudential to advise Ms B whether or not the AVC plan would be better 
for her circumstances. That was essentially a decision Ms B needed to make for 
herself. But it did need to make sure that the FSAVC would be suitable for Ms Bs 
needs.
The evidence shows that Ms B wanted to pay additional contributions to increase her 
retirement provision. She appears to have had the financial capacity to make those 
contributions. Prudential says it assessed Ms Bs attitude to risk as that of a cautious 
investor for these pension savings. I think its recommendation, to use the with profits 
investment fund, was suitable in those circumstances.
 
Prudential recorded that Ms B was interested in a scheme that provided her with 
some flexibility should she change her employment. In its fact find document 
Prudential noted that Ms B had no plans, within the next five years, to change jobs. 
But I have seen that Ms B also held an AVC plan from her time with a previous 
employer  she had only been a member of her current OPS for three years. So 
I cannot reasonably discount the probability that Ms B might expect to change her 
employer again in the future.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Ms B. But, as a tied adviser, 
Prudentials representative could only consider the suitability of Prudentials FSAVC 
plan for Ms B. On balance, Im currently satisfied that Ms B was given enough 
information during the advice process in 1999 to understand the important 
differences between the in-house schemes and the FSAVC plan before making her 
decision. As such, I currently think the recommendation for the FSAVC plan could be 
regarded as suitable in the circumstances when taking account of the limitations 
placed on a tied adviser at the time.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Prudential has said that it has nothing more to add. Ms B has said that 
she doesnt agree with my provisional findings and provided some additional comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what Ms B has said, I want to reassure her that I have 
read, and carefully considered, her entire response.
Ms B says that it wasnt until 30 June 1999 that HMRC permitted consumers to take AVC or 
FSAVC benefits at a different time to those provided by the OPS. Although she accepts that 
the actual date that the report was produced is a little unclear, Ms B says that the justification it offered for the suitability of the FSAVC, in terms of taking benefits at a different date, was 
not actually relevant at that time.
Ms B says that the investment approach Prudential recommended would also have been 
available to her had she taken an AVC plan instead. She says she had no need of a wider 
availability of investment options. And she says that, given her child had been born shortly 
before she started her current job, it would have seemed likely that she might have remained 
with her employer until retirement.
Ms B says the tied advisor actually worked for a company called NHS Staff Benefits. So 
she says that he should have been able to provide her with greater detail than might be the 
norm about the additional contribution options offered by her employer. She says that the 
brevity of the relevant section of the suitability report suggests that any discussion she had 
with the advisor about the OPS must have been very short.
Ms B says the recommendation in the suitability report doesnt evidence any explanation of 
the generic benefits of the AVC option were discussed. And she says there is nothing to 
demonstrate that she should [her emphasis] go and get additional information. Ms B says 
she cannot see any reason why the suitability report would have prompted her to think that 
she might be better off with the in-house options. Given her budget and contribution level it 
would have been critical that she was not paying more in charges than she needed to  she 
says the advisor should have better explained this to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also 
carefully considered the submissions that have been made by Ms B and by Prudential. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
And once again I reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate or 
punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ive thought carefully about the additional comments that Ms B has made. And I can 
understand why she is disappointed that I have reached a different conclusion to that 
reached by our adjudicator. Im sorry to tell her however that her additional comments 
havent caused me to change my mind  I dont think her complaint should be upheld. But 
I would like to provide some further thoughts on the additional matters she has raised.
I am satisfied that the commentary in the suitability report is sufficient to support a 
conclusion that Prudential met its regulatory responsibilities when discussing the FSAVC 
plan with Ms B. The advisor from Prudential wasnt able to recommend to Ms B that she 
should start paying AVCs rather than FSAVCs. So, beyond making Ms W aware of the 
in-house alternative and drawing attention to the key differences, and particularly that the charges in the FSAVC policy would likely be higher, he didnt need to justify to Ms B why the 
FSAVC plan might be more suitable than the alternative AVC option. 
I appreciate that Ms B says that Prudential should have explained why it thought the FSAVC 
plan would have been more beneficial to her than the AVC option. But I dont agree. 
Prudential simply needed to ensure that it had met its regulatory obligations in telling Ms B, 
in the terms I have set out, about the AVC option, and that a FSAVC arrangement would 
allow her to meet her needs of making additional provision for her retirement. I think that 
both those requirements were met, and so I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman