DRN-2423583
The complaint
Mr C complains Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) delayed 
the transfer of his personal pension to another provider, as a result he feels he has been 
financially disadvantaged.
What happened
There has been a great deal of correspondence between the parties and so I have detailed 
this within the background information in order to clarify the timeline of events.
Mr C held two personal pension plans with Sun Life.
On 22 April 2019, Mr C wrote to Sun Life to enquire about taking his pension benefits. He 
was approaching his 55th birthday in September 2019 and he had recently suffered serious ill 
health.
In May 2019, Sun Life wrote to Mr C explaining his pension account had been marked gone 
away since 2003. This was because it had no forwarding address from him. It asked Mr C to 
complete a contact form an provide evidence of his current address such as a bank 
statement, utility bill or HMRC letter.
On 28 May 2019, Sun Life received a bank statement from Mr C showing his current 
address.  On 3 June 2019, Sun Life wrote to Mr C asking for some evidence of his previous 
address that it held on file. 
On 13 June 2019, it sent Mr C a retirement pack with a pensions options questionnaire.
On 21 June 2019, Mr C wrote back to Sun Life to say this wasnt an option for him due to his 
current personal circumstances, he no longer had any documentation from his previous 
address.  After considering the matter Sun Life accepted the bank statement as proof of his 
current address.
On 25 June 2019, Sun Life received the completed questionnaire with an accompanying 
letter. Mr C said in the letter he wanted to take the full amount as an annuity but on the 
questionnaire, he had ticked the box which said he wanted to take his benefits as cash.
On 27 June 2019, Sun Life sent a letter advising him of the contradiction in the information 
received and asking Mr C to confirm which option he wanted. It explained in the letter the 
options available, including the option to take benefits as a result of serious ill health. It 
enclosed a pre-paid envelope to assist Mr C in returning the required information.
On 01 July, Mr C wrote back to Sun Life, apologising for the oversight and giving clear 
written instructions as to how he would like to proceed. 
On 15 July, Sun Life wrote to Mr C, confirming it had received his request. In the letter it 
pointed out Mr Cs pension had a Guaranteed Annuit Rate (GAR) attached to it, but this only 
applied it he took his benefits on 11 September 2024. It explained the GAR was a valuable 
benefit and would mean a higher income for life it taken at the later date. It said if Mr C 
wanted to take his benefits earlier and so lose the attached GAR, he would need to take 
financial advice and it enclosed, amongst other documents a Transfer/Flexi access 
Guaranteed Advice Confirmation form that would need to be signed by a suitably qualified 
adviser.
During August 2019, there followed a number of discussions between Mr C and Sun Life 
with regard to how best to take his pension benefits and the difficulties of receiving suitable 
financial advice. Ultimately, Mr C chose to transfer the whole of one pension plan to an 
alternative provider in order to receive an annuity.
On 16 August 2019, Sun Life sent the necessary paperwork for Mr C to authorise the 
transfer.
On 12 September 2019, Sun Life received the transfer request paperwork from the 
alternative provider.
On 16 September Sun Life wrote again to Mr C to advise him it now required verification of 
his identity in order to process the transfer. It enclosed a Confirming Your Identity leaflet 
and provided information on how to ensure any documents were correctly certified.
On 18 September Sun Life received a telephone call from Mr Cs representative advising it 
was very difficult for Mr C to obtain the verification requested. Sun Life agreed to accept a 
letter on company headed paper from a solicitor to complete the verification process.
On 20 September Mr C complained to Sun Life. He felt it had delayed the transfer of his 
pension and unnecessarily asked him for further identification. He confirmed in his letter that 
his solicitor would be sending the required verification.
On 17 October 2019, Sun Life issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It 
said it had verified Mr Cs address, but it was also required to verify his identity. It didnt 
agree that it had unduly delayed the transfer.
Dissatisfied, Mr C brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr C. She didnt find that Sun Life had caused an 
unavoidable delay to the pension transfer. She found that it had complied with its own 
internal procedures and that after receiving the required verification on 30 September 2019 
the full transfer had been carried out by 10 October 2019. She found this to be a reasonable 
timescale and didnt ask Sun Life to do anything further.
Mr C didnt agree. He remains very frustrated that Sun Life asked for further verification after 
communicating with him for the previous three months and after already providing his 
address verification. He remains of the view Sun Life were adopting stalling tactics and asks 
for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so, Im in agreement 
with our investigators view and for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C. Ill explain why.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. Firstly, I appreciate this has been frustrating for Mr C. His personal circumstances are such 
that it has been very difficult to provide the verification requested by Sun Life. I can 
sympathise with Mr Cs position and I do understand why he must feel the verification 
request to confirm his identity after he had provided address verification seemed 
unnecessary.
But for me to uphold his complaint, I would need to be persuaded that Sun Life have acted 
outside of their own internal process and procedures or failed to comply with the regulatory 
requirements in some way. And that in doing so it caused an unnecessary delay to Mr C 
which has led to a financial loss.
Ive looked carefully at all the correspondence between Sun Life and Mr C. Whilst there is a 
significant amount, I havent seen anything which persuades me there were any 
unnecessary requests or any undue delays between the correspondence. As far as I can 
see Sun Life and Mr C responded to each other in timely manner throughout the discourse.
Regarding the need for verification for both Mr Cs address and identity. A financial firm like 
Sun Life acts under a number of obligations. It has to look after the money and assets that 
its customers entrust to them. And they must comply with anti money laundering and 
terrorist finance requirements. Checking a customers identity and address plays a part in 
both. When financial firms make these checks it can be frustrating for the customer, but 
there are good reasons for them to be done  they ought to be thought of as a necessary 
inconvenience.
Financial firms are required to take a risk-based approach and often use processes that try 
to minimise the inconvenience to customers. Sun Life has explained Mr Cs details hadnt 
been verified since 2003. The last known record showed him as gone away with no 
forwarding address and so I think its understandable Sun Life would need to be very sure 
they had correctly verified Mr C before proceeding with the transfer. I appreciate Mr C feels 
he has already provided his address verification and so shouldnt have had to verify his 
identity before the transfer was carried out. But pension fraud is a very real risk, with serious 
consequences. So, I dont think it unreasonable for Sun Life to have wanted to take careful 
steps to verify Mr Js identity before carrying out the transfer. As well as being necessary for 
it to ensure it was complying with the regulators requirements in this area, I consider that it 
was acting in Mr Cs best interests as a customer.
Complying with the relevant regulations also means two forms of verification are required. 
One to verify a clients address and another for verifying a clients identity. In Mr Cs case 
Sun Life, had to do a bit more to verify him because of his personal circumstances. Asking 
for documents to establish proof of identity isnt unusual or unreasonable. I appreciate Mr C 
says he can be looked up on Google. But this wouldnt be an acceptable form of 
verification  it wouldnt enable them to tell the difference between the real Mr C and anyone 
else of the same name and similar detail that would meet the anti-money laundering 
requirements.
Mr C says Sun Life caused him to lose out financially because it delayed the transfer.
But Sun Life only received a transfer request from the alternative provider on 12
September 2019 and by 10 October 2019, it completed all the required verification checks 
the pension was transferred. So, despite the frustration Mr C experienced I find it reasonable 
for a pension transfer to take about a month or longer to complete once requested. So, Im 
not persuaded this has caused Mr C a financial loss or any unnecessary delay.I understand Mr C will find this disappointing, but Im satisfied Sun Life followed its own 
procedures and didnt cause any unnecessary delay and so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman