DRN-4186751
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com (Aviva) 
unfairly declined a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A contacted Aviva to make a claim when he found a split in his oil tank. Aviva inspected 
the tank and declined it. It said it was for Mr A to prove his loss and it hadnt received 
evidence the damage had been caused by an impact.
When Mr A complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
Aviva considered Mr As suggestions of how the damage might have happened, but didnt 
think these were the cause. He said it was reasonable to rely on its own experts opinion and 
decline the claim.
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Aviva declined the claim because it didnt think the damage was caused by an insured risk 
covered by the policy. Looking at the policy, from what Ive seen, there were two insured 
risks that might be relevant to this claim. 
The first was a storm. Mr A has said that the fence around the tank knocking against the 
tank was likely to be the cause. Aviva considered this and decided that because of the 
location and height of the fence, this was unlikely to be the cause. I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The other part of the policy that might be relevant was where damage to the building was 
caused by it:
Being hit by:
 aircraft or other flying objects, or anything falling from them;

 falling trees or branches.
Mr A thought a branch from a tree might have hit the tank. Aviva didnt identify any trees 
close enough to have caused the damage or any indentations in the tank. Im aware Mr A 
has provided photos of the trees around his property and that he disputes that there are no 
nearby trees. However, I still havent seen evidence that a branch was likely to have hit the 
tank. I dont think the location of the trees showed that a branch hit the tank and Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr A provided Aviva with evidence of a branch near to the tank and, even if 
there was one, Aviva still didnt find evidence of an indentation caused by a branch. So, I 
think it was reasonable that Aviva decided the damage wasnt covered by this part of the 
policy.
Im aware Mr A also disagrees with Aviva saying the damage was likely to be the result of 
wear and tear, which was an exclusion under the policy. Where there isnt evidence to show 
damage was likely to be the result of an insured event, an insurer doesnt need to apply an 
exclusion, it can just decline to deal with the claim. So, even though Mr A disputes that the 
damage was the result of wear and tear, this doesnt persuade me that Aviva was unfair 
when it decided to decline the claim.
When Aviva responded to the complaint, it explained that it was for Mr A to prove his loss. 
When a policyholder makes a claim, it is for them to show that what they are claiming for 
was an insured risk under the policy. Insurers will often send a surveyor to assess the 
damage, as was the case here, but they dont have to keep investigating in order to find the 
cause of the damage. In this instance, Aviva considered what Mr A said was the likely cause 
of damage and considered its surveyors findings. In the circumstances, I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to rely on its experts findings and to decline the claim on the basis the 
damage wasnt caused by an insured risk.
So, having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold the complaint or require Aviva to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman