DRN-3907260
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr E complain that Sainsburys Bank Plc have mis-sold them a policy for home 
emergency cover which didnt meet their needs 
What happened
Mrs E and Mr E took out a home emergency policy as an add on to their main buildings and 
contents policy with Sainsburys in February 2021. They renewed it in February 2022.   It is a 
joint policy, but Mr E has raised the complaint on behalf of both of them, so when I refer to 
Mr E, I am referring to both parties. 
Mr E contacted Sainsburys Emergency Cover Helpline in October 2022 to make a claim as 
he had a leaking external tap. 
The call handler advised Mr E that this wasnt covered under the policy and referred to the 
terms and conditions in the policy booklet. 
Mr E said that he hadnt seen these policy terms as they hadnt been sent out and feels he 
wasnt made aware of the terms and conditions at the time the policy was sold to him. Mr E 
complained to Sainsburys. 
In November 2022 Sainsburys sent their final response They said that when Mr E purchased 
the policy online in January 2021 his documents were sent to the portal. When the policy 
came up for renewal in February 2022, Mr E was sent a letter and a document about 
changes to the policy, which referred him to the policy booklet online, so they made him 
aware of the policy terms and exclusions.  
 Mr E wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr E complaint. Initially she upheld Mr Es 
complaint, but after further information was provided by Sainsburys she changed her mind. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent upheld Mr Es complaint, and I will explain why.  
What I have to consider here is whether this policy has been mis sold to Mr E. In other 
words, was the policy that was sold to Mr E suitable for his needs, giving him the cover that 
he wanted. Its acceptable for the policy to have exclusions and restrictions on the cover, 
provided that Mr E was made aware of those exclusions and was not in any way misled 
about the cover he was purchasing either directly, or because important information about 
that cover was not made clear to him. If it wasnt, then it may have been mis sold. 
Mr Es policy wasnt on auto renew, and so in February 2022 he was given the option to 
renew the policy if it continued to suit his needs. 
So, Ive looked at what documents were provided to Mr E prior to him making the decision to 
renew and thought about whether that information made it clear to him what was and wasnt 
included in his policy.  
Before renewal, Mr E was sent a cover letter and documents. The cover letter says:
Please take a look at your policy to make sure the level of cover youve chosen still meets 
your needs, and feel free to shop around to see how we compare.
 
Also provided were Schedules of Insurance, Insurance Product Information Documents and 
two documents regarding changes to the policy including a Notice of Variation for the Home 
Emergency Cover. The first of these documents, entitled Changes to your Sainsburys Bank 
Home Insurance in your New Policy Year says on the front page Please read and keep it 
with your policy booklet for reference. If you need a copy of your policy booklet, you can find 
it here: https//www.sainsburysbank.co.uk/home-insurance/policies 
Mr E has said that he wasnt aware that a policy booklet existed, but Im satisfied that this 
letter made him aware that there was an additional document -  a policy booklet  that he 
need to view, and where to find it. I think that as the document was about changes to the 
policy, it was specifically drawing his attention to the need to review the policy booklet.  Ive 
checked the link provided, and it goes directly to a web page that contains links to the policy 
booklets, including the Home Insurance Additional Products booklet containing the Home 
Emergency policy terms. 
At page 20 of this booklet there is an exclusion which says:  
What is covered:
An emergency relating to:
The internal hot and cold water pipes between the main internal stopcock and the 
internal taps
What is not covered:
Repair to or replacement of all pipework outside the home
And so, I think it was clear in the policy booklet that external taps and pipework wouldnt be 
covered. 
However, the claim was declined by the underwriters under the general exclusions - the tap 
was outside the property and there was no emergency. Page 9 of the Optional Extras policy 
booklet defines an emergency as:
A sudden and unforeseen incident in your home which immediately exposes you or 
a third party to a risk to health or creates a risk of loss or damage to your home 
and/or any of your belongings or makes your home uninhabitable
I think this exclusion also makes it clear the kind of incident which would be classed as an 
emergency under the terms of the policy, which is something inside the home.  
So, on balance, Im satisfied that Mr E was given the right information about the policy and 
its exclusions prior to agreeing the renewal. I accept that he might not have followed the link 
or read the documents, and I also accept that the policy booklet wasnt available through the 
app. However, I think he was given enough information to know that there was a policy 
booklet to read, and had he done so, the exclusions were sufficiently clear. In view of that Im not able to say that the policy was mis-sold to Mr E. 
My final decision
My decision is that Im not upholding Mrs E and Mr Es complaint about Sainsburys Bank 
Plc, and so they dont need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman