DRN-2663308
The complaint
Mr C complains about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Cs vehicle was damaged by a fallen tree, and he contacted UKI. UKI repaired the vehicle 
and it was returned to Mr C 10 days later. 
However, when he inspected the vehicle Mr C found the interior of the vehicle was wet, and 
one of the sensors had been activated. Mr C complained and he returned the vehicle to UKI 
for rectification works.
Unfortunately, before the additional issues were repaired the UK went into lockdown 
following government advice, and there was a substantial delay in getting the additional 
damage rectified. Suppliers had all closed down and there was a delay in getting the parts 
needed to rectify the water ingress issue.
UKI has taken responsibility for the additional water ingress issue. It has acknowledged that 
it caused the issue, and its paid Mr C £150 compensation for its errors. It has also paid Mr C 
a further £30 under its repair promise scheme, for exceeding the seven-day repair timeframe 
on the original repair. Throughout the duration of the repair, UKI did place Mr C in a hire car, 
and it upgraded this hire car at Mr Cs request. It has also given a five-year guarantee on the 
additional repairs that were carried out following the water ingress. UKI has apologised to  
Mr C for the delays that happened when we were in lockdown, but it advised that the length 
of these delays were outside of its control.
But Mr C remains unhappy. Hes unhappy with the initial delay in rectifying the additional 
damage caused. He says he continually sought updates on the repair without success. Hes 
also concerned that the water ingress may lead to further problems. He says since the repair 
hes experienced some electrical issues and hes concerned about condensation inside the 
vehicle. Mr C would like UKI to refund the excess he paid on his initial claim and further 
compensation.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this case for additional compensation on 12 
February 2021. That provisional decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend upholding this 
complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Delays
The issues pertaining to this specific complaint arose when Mr Cs vehicle was returned after 
the original repairs were completed. When Mr C inspected his vehicle, he found that the 
interior centre console trim had been damaged, the seat belt sensor had been activated, the 
interior carpets were soaking wet, and the tray underneath the passenger seat was full of 
water. 
Mr C returned the vehicle to the garage on 20 February 2020. He didnt hear anything from 
the garage, so on 27 February 2020 he contacted UKI.  UKI spoke to the garage, and 
updated Mr C via email. There was a further call between UKI and Mr C on 2 March 2020, 
where Mr C went through the issues again, and I can see from the notes that UKI had 
another conversation with the garage on the same day. In this call the garage admitted that 
the water ingress was due to a combination of the valet not being carried out appropriately 
and the car not being covered correctly whilst in its care. The garage estimated that it would 
have the car repaired within a week. At this point UKI issued a final response, it apologised, 
awarded £150 for the inconvenience caused and allowed Mr C to remain in car hire.
But unfortunately, this wasnt the end of the issue. There were a number of email exchanges 
over the next few days, and UKI contacted the garage again on 5 March 2020. Again, the 
garage confirmed that the vehicle would be ready by end of the week. But this didnt happen. 
Im not going to set out in detail all of the contact between the three parties over the next 
month. But by 23 March 2020, the parts had not arrived to complete the repair and the UK 
went into a government-imposed lockdown, meaning the repair couldnt be carried out.  Mr C 
eventually received his vehicle back in June 2020.
Mr C is aware that the lockdown was not something that UKI couldve anticipated, nor was it 
something that was within UKIs control. But he has pointed to the delays from 20 February 
2020 to 23 March 2020 and the lack of updates as a concern. 
UKI issued a final response on 2 March 2020 but the repairs remained unresolved. In the 
email chain that followed over the next few months, UKI say the £150 it paid to Mr C was 
sufficient to cover its error, and it wasnt responsible for delays due to the lockdown.
And I agree, UKI shouldnt be held responsible for delays due to the lockdown. But both UKI 
and the garage shouldve been clearer with Mr C about the timeframes for repair. I 
appreciate he was looking for more frequent updates, and I agree there was no necessity to 
update him as often as he wanted, but the garage promised a swift turnaround on 2 March 
2020, following an initial delay, yet the parts hadnt even arrived by 23 March 2020, when 
lockdown began. 
So, I dont think £150 is enough to compensate Mr C for the poor service he received during 
this time. The return of the vehicle to the garage was as a result of UKIs errors, which in turn 
led to a lengthy period for Mr C without his vehicle. I think Mr Cs expectations shouldve 
been managed better. It mightve led to a less stressful situation. So, I will be recommending 
that UKI pays Mr C a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused, in addition to 
the £150 its already paid.
Additional problems following repairs
Mr C has also raised concerns about the damage caused and how it might impact his 
vehicle going forward. In emails to us hes stated that he was noticing minor electrical issues 
that hes never seen before, and there was excessive condensation inside and outside the 
vehicle. 
Since these emails, our investigator has had a conversation with Mr C and hes now 
confirmed that these issues have disappeared. Further to this I can see that UKI has 
provided a five-year guarantee on all the parts that were replaced due to the errors that it 
made when the vehicle was in its care. I feel this is fair. We cant compensate Mr C for what might happen, and we havent been provided with any evidence to show that the vehicle is 
currently experiencing any water ingress related issues. Further to this UKI has provided a 
guarantee on the parts it replaced following its error. So, I wont be asking UKI to do 
anymore in relation to this issue.
Repair promise
UKI offer a repair promise which states if we cant repair the car within 7 days, well give the 
customer £10 a day for every extra day (or part day), up to a maximum of £70
Under this repair promise, UKI paid Mr C £30, as his initial repair took 10 days (three days 
over the allotted seven, so £30 was paid). Mr C states that he shouldve received the full 
benefit as his vehicle had to be returned to the garage and took far longer to repair.
But UKI say that this benefit is only calculated based on the timeframe for the initial repairs. 
It says the repair promise is not valid for rectification work or supplementary repairs.
The repair promise is an additional scheme that UKI runs for its own customers. And 
whereas I can see both sides point of view on this, Im not going to make a finding on 
whether Mr C should be paid the full benefit under this scheme or not. Instead what Ive 
done is considered the delays experienced by Mr C across the whole time his vehicle was 
with UKI, and Ive set out above what Im recommending for this and my reasoning for this 
recommendation.
Conclusion  
Overall, I dont agree that UKI has paid Mr C enough compensation for the poor service it 
provided. So, Im recommending that UKI pays Mr C a further £100 in addition to the £150 
hes already received in compensation for the delays and poor service hes received.
Mr C has confirmed hes received my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. 
UKI has responded with some further points which I will deal with below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI says From reading the adjudication, the Ombudsman intends to provide a further £100 
for the poor service since this complaint was closed. The customer was advised the car was 
at the main dealer - not our garage - and a further linked complaint was logged and 
responded too on 12 March 2020 not upholding this element. We accept the customer was 
told a week however this was on the advice of the manufacturer who we took to the car too. 
However, due to a parts delay, they were unable to get the car fixed before the UK national 
lockdown.
Moving the car to the main dealer was the right thing to do, however as the car was with the 
main dealer, we were relaying advice given to them. As they are the manufacturer of the 
vehicle, we accept the customer was given incorrect timescales but UKI relayed this 
information in good faith to the customer to try and keep him updated.
Therefore, the further £100 award does seem unreasonable as we were keeping him 
updated the best we could. If the outcome of linked case is incorrect based on the FOS findings, should this not be addressed separately to this? This complaint solely focused on 
the poor repair which it would seem £150 is reasonable. The extra money is being awarded 
for a time period after our FRL was sent and a new one was logged.
Ive reviewed the file in full again and I can see that two final responses were sent to Mr C in 
connection to complaints he made about UKI. The first final response was sent on 2 March 
2020, the second on 12 March 2020. However, even though weve been provided with a full 
file, relating to a complaint that ran through until June 2020, the second final response dated 
12 March 2020 has been omitted from this file.
UKI, in its response to my provisional decision feels this should be broken this down into two 
complaints. One relating to the final response sent on 2 March 2020 and the second relating 
to 12 March 2020. Its suggested that the issues that arose after the first final response dated 
2 March should be a new complaint, and it states that the original compensation payment of 
£150 is reasonable.
I can see the argument that UKI is making. However, to me the issues that Mr C raised that 
generated a final response on 2 March 2020, and the ongoing issues he was having that 
generated a further final response on 12 March 2020 are intrinsically linked. Further to this, 
the complaint submitted to us in June 2020 is a complaint about all of the issues Mr C had 
as a result of the damage caused to his car whilst in UKIs care. In addition to this Mr C 
came to us after the second final response and complained about everything that had 
happened. And the file that UKI submitted, incorporated all of the issues that had arisen up 
to when the vehicle was returned to Mr C in June 2020, (even if the final response dated 12 
March wasnt included in the file). 
So, breaking this down now into two separate complaints and causing a further delay would 
not be in keeping with treating customers fairly. And taking into consideration my role and 
bearing in mind the DISP rules that I work under, the fairer approach is for me to consider 
this complaint as a whole, and not as two separate complaints. 
I agree that moving the vehicle to a main dealer was the right thing to do. And I appreciate 
UKI believe that £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service it 
provided is reasonable. But from what I can see even after the final response dated 12 
March 2020, and leaving aside Covid19 restrictions, Mr C continued to suffer an 
inconvenience, following an error that UKI was responsible for as Ive set out in my 
provisional decision. And as such, the inconvenience of this poor service, in particular the 
delays throughout the whole lifetime of this complaint is reflected by the additional 
compensation I recommended in my provisional decision.
So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I recommend UKI pays Mr C a further 
£100, in addition to the £150 already paid in compensation for the inconvenience he suffered 
throughout the lifetime of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is to uphold
this complaint.
I require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr C a further £100 in compensation (in addition to the 
£150 already paid) as set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman