DRN-3312582
The complaint
Mr D and Mr D complain that Santander UK Plc gave them incorrect information about 
whether they were able to apply for a term extension on their buy-to-let mortgage. Theyve 
said this resulted in a delay in this being applied for and a new interest rate deal being taken. 
What happened
Mr D and Mr D took out an interest only buy-to-let mortgage with Santander in 2007. It was 
originally taken over a term of 15 years.
In September 2019, Mr D and Mr D enquired about extending the mortgage term and taking 
a new five-year fixed interest rate deal. I understand their mortgage was on Santanders 
standard variable rate at that point. They were initially told a term extension would be 
possible  as Santander lent up to the age of 85 for buy-to-let mortgages. 
When they called back several days later to apply, they were told that for interest only 
mortgages Santander did not lend beyond the age of 70, and for repayment mortgages the 
age of 75. And this meant, due to one of them being close to the age of 70, an extension 
could not be agreed. As a result, Mr D and Mr D didnt take their enquiry further and no 
application was made  for either a term extension or a new interest rate.
Mr D and Mr D contacted Santander again in June 2020. At this point the mortgage had a 
remaining term of approximately two and a half years. They asked about what new interest 
rates deals were potentially available. It was again explained that the maximum age 
Santander would lend until, on an interest only basis, was 70. 
Mr D and Mr D did apply for a new interest rate product  a variable rate of 2.75% above the 
Bank of England base rate. This was agreed and took effect from 10 June 2020. There were 
no early repayment charges associated with this deal.
Mr D and Mr D contacted Santander again in September 2020, enquiring about five-year 
fixed rates. Their mortgage term wasnt long enough to accommodate this, and there was 
another conversation about whether this could be extended. The Santander representative 
looked into this and confirmed, as their mortgage was a buy-to-let, a term extension to age 
85 was potentially possible, subject to an application.
An application for a 15-year term extension was made. Mr D and Mr D also applied for a new 
interest rate deal of 1.99% fixed for five years. Both of these alterations to the mortgage 
were agreed and took effect in late 2020.
Mr D and Mr D complained to Santander. They said theyd been given incorrect information 
about the upper age limits to which Santander would lend a couple of times. And if this 
hadnt happened, theyd have completed a term extension sooner and taken a new five-year 
fixed interest rate deal sooner as well. And, as a result, theyd have paid less interest.
Santander acknowledged that it had given incorrect information. To put things right, it paid 
Mr D and Mr D £160 as a gesture of goodwill for the upset caused. But it declined to make 
any payment in respect of the interest charged. It said this was because, while it had given 
incorrect information about a term extension, there was nothing preventing Mr D and Mr D 
from taking an alternative interest rate, in line with what wouldve been permitted under the 
remaining original mortgage term. 
Mr D and Mr D asked our service to consider their complaint. One of our Investigators 
looked into matters. He felt what Santander had offered was fair. He agreed it had given 
incorrect information about a term extension. But this hadnt prevented Mr D and Mr D from 
taking a new interest rate  albeit on a different basis to what they mightve preferred. 
Mr D and Mr D didnt think our Investigators opinion was fair. And they said they didnt feel 
the option of a shorter interest deal  which wasnt what they had wanted and wasnt 
something they considered suitable  was reason to say Santander shouldnt need to do 
more.
As Mr D and Mr D did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has indicated that its lending criteria for buy-to-let mortgages is that, subject to 
meeting other relevant criteria, it can lend up until the age of 85. Indeed, Mr D and Mr D 
were able to extend the term of their buy-to-let mortgage in late 2020 on this basis.
In the first conversation Mr D and Mr D had with Santander about a term extension, on 30 
September 2019, this policy was discussed and outlined. So, it appears that this was part of 
Santanders lending criteria at that point and has remained so since.
What that means is that, in later conversations, where Santander said it couldnt lend, and as 
a result agree term extensions, beyond the age of 70 for interest only mortgages it provided 
incorrect information. Ive heard recordings of conversations from October 2019 and June 
2020, where this incorrect information was provided. 
So, Santander has provided incorrect information to Mr D and Mr D on more than one 
occasion. Which it acknowledges. So, what I need to do is to think about what a fair way to 
put this right is.
Santander has argued that, while it gave incorrect information about term extensions Mr D 
and Mr D couldve still taken a new interest rate. In October 2019 they had over three years 
left on their mortgage. And in June 2020 they still had over two and a half years left on their 
mortgage. Santander has said they couldve still taken a new rate, such as a two-year fixed 
rate, at those times. And I havent seen anything that suggests Santander said alternative 
options were not available to Mr D and Mr D.
Mr D and Mr D have said that they were not looking for a shorter-term rate and they dont 
think this was suitable for them. It is clear from the conversations that Ive listened to that 
Mr D and Mr D wanted to extend the mortgage term and take a five-year fixed interest rate. 
And this has been their preference since their initial call to Santander on 30 September 
2019. If they hadnt subsequently been incorrectly told they couldnt do this; I think theyd 
have applied for a term extension and new interest rate sooner. 
But at the same time, a large part of their complaint is that theyve paid more interest than they would otherwise have needed to, if they hadnt been misinformed. And, while they were 
given incorrect information that seemed to prevent them applying for their preferred option, I 
agree with Santander that there were other options available to them, which wouldve meant 
they paid less interest. I accept these shorter-term options may not have been Mr D and 
Mr Ds preference. But if they were concerned about the level of interest they were paying, I 
dont think it wouldve been unreasonable to expect them to consider these alternatives and 
mitigate their losses when they were told they couldnt achieve their preference. And indeed, 
Mr D and Mr D took an alternative rate in June 2020, that wasnt a five-year fixed rate and 
wasnt dependent on a term extension. So, they seem to have been willing to make this 
compromise, for the sake of a better interest rate. And I see no reason that they couldnt 
have done the same in October 2019.
With that in mind, while I think Santander has provided incorrect information, I dont think 
that prevented Mr D and Mr D from taking an alternative interest rate sooner than they did. 
And so, I dont think itd be fair to require Santander to refund the interest charged.
Santander has paid Mr D and Mr D £160 for the upset caused by the incorrect information it 
provided. I appreciate it wouldve been disappointing for Mr D and Mr D to find that theyd 
been provided incorrect information. But in the circumstances, I think what Santander has 
done is fair to address the upset caused by this. So, I dont think it needs to do anything 
more here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman