DRN-1442180
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Openwork Limited has retained copies of the proof of 
identification they provided when they applied for a mortgage. They say Openwork must 
have contingencies for people who have neither a passport nor a driving licence, so they 
should also have been offered that option.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G applied for a mortgage through a representative of Openwork and the 
mortgage completed on 18 April 2019.
They contacted Openwork to request the copies of the proof of identification theyd provided 
be destroyed or returned to them, and confirmation no further copies  hard or digital  had 
been retained. They said the information about the proof could be noted, or they were willing 
to provide some other form of identification verification in its place.
Openwork dealt with it as a formal complaint and said it was required to retain the copies.
Our investigator said Openwork hadnt done anything wrong and explained the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) was a more appropriate body to deal with the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs G said they wanted an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs G wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at and what questions should be asked 
or answered.
Were not the regulator - that is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - and its not within my 
remit to order Openwork to change its processes for data retention or what documents it 
asks for as proof of identification. Those would be matters for the ICO and the FCA. All I can 
look at is whether Openwork has done something wrong and, if it has, what needs to be 
done to put it right.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Openwork hasnt done anything wrong in 
retaining copies of Mr and Mrs Gs proof of identification. Whilst the various regulations dont 
say Openwork has to retain the actual copies, they equally dont say its not allowed to 
either. The General Data Protection Regulation says data shouldnt be stored for longer than 
needed but thats a subjective statement and the correct place to make the arguments about 
what data should be held and for how long is the ICO as it regulates such issues.
Openwork also did nothing wrong in not treating Mr and Mrs G as customers that would 
generally fit in the financially excluded or socially excluded categories (by that I mean, 
customers that dont hold either a passport or a driving licence) when thats not the case. 
The arguments about whether Openwork should have offered them the opportunity to 
provide other forms of identification are also a matter for the FCA and the ICO. In terms of 
this complaint Im satisfied if Mr and Mrs G didnt want to provide the proof of identification 
Openwork asked for then they could have walked away and found a mortgage broker that 
would work within the parameters they wanted.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman