DRN-3747533
The complaint
Miss M says Bank of Scotland PLC, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside her mortgage in 2001. 
What happened
Miss M has complained about her PPI policy sold by Halifax. She says the policy was added 
without her knowing and she wasnt made aware of her cancellation rights. Halifax says the 
policy was sold fairly and did not agree to uphold her complaint. 
Miss M took out a TMPP policy which included life and critical illness cover as well as PPI. 
Mrs M has only complained about the PPI, so I have only considered the PPI elements in 
this decision. 
The PPI policy was taken out during a meeting with Halifax alongside Miss Ms mortgage. 
The policy provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It cost £15.65 per months and offered to repay £263.43 per 
month for up to 24 months in the event of Miss M being unable to work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator considered all of the available evidence and felt the policy was not mis-sold. 
Miss M disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of these policies on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case. 
Ive decided the policy was not mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Due to the length of time thats passed not all the documents from the sale are now 
available. But this isnt surprising as business are not required to keep customer documents 
indefinitely. In cases such as this I must consider the evidence available and make a 
decision on what I think is more likely to have happened in the circumstances.  
Halifax have said the optional nature of the policy wouldve been discussed before Miss M 
agreed to take out the PPI and she wouldve signed separately to agree to the policy. Halifax 
have provided one page of Miss Ms mortgage application form, the page which shows her 
signature in the section for PPI under the wording: Yes, I would like to take advantage of the 
TMPP And there is nothing here to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So although I dont 
know what was discussed at the time, and what else was included in the mortgage 
application, I think this section makes it clear that the PPI was an optional product which 
Miss M signed for separately to the mortgage. 
Our adjudicator considered the information we do have and felt this was an advised sale. 
Neither party has responded to disagree with this point, so I have also considered this to 
have been an advised sale.
This means Halifax had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Miss 
M - and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was.
For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and 
she seems to have had a need for this type of cover.
Miss M was entitled to sick pay at the time and says she couldve relied on her parents 
support if needed. But the PPI wouldve paid out for longer than her sick pay wouldve 
lasted. And Miss M has told us that she was a single mum at the time, so while I appreciate 
that her parents wouldve wanted to help her had she fallen into difficulty  having the policy 
in place meant that her mortgage wouldve been repaid and she couldve used her family 
support to help her with other expenses. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss M about the policy wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But its likely she chose to take out the policy and for the same reasons I
think the policy was suitable for her, I think it wouldve been useful had something gone
wrong. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out
the cover.
So overall, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
For all the reasons outlined above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman