DRN-2939684
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) shouldve advised her to join 
her employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) rather than set up and contribute to a 
Personal Pension Plan (PPP). She believes shes lost out financially.
Mrs T was advised by a different business. But Aviva are responsible for the complaint. And 
Ill only refer to them in my decision. 
What happened
In August 1990, Mrs T received advice from a business who were acting under authorisation 
from Aviva. They recommended she set up a PPP. Mrs Ts PPP was set up on 1 September 
1990 to receive monthly contributions of £33.33.
Mrs T said that the focus of the 1990 meeting was on selling her a PPP. She said she wasnt 
told about the option of joining her employers OPS. She also said that the adviser 
completed the application form on her behalf, and she then signed it. But that it had 
incorrectly recorded her as not employed. Mrs T said she considers Aviva shouldve refused 
to allow her to set up a PPP. And that if they had, shed have had no option but to join the 
OPS.
Mrs T received further advice from the same business in August and October 1993, after 
which she continued to contribute into her PPP. The paperwork from 1993 indicates she was 
advised to join the OPS at this time. 
Mrs T agreed that joining the OPS was discussed in 1993. But said that she was given the 
impression that it was just an option. She said she didnt believe the adviser made it clear in 
1993 that she wouldve been better off joining the OPS. She said if he had, she wouldve 
done so. Mrs T later joined the OPS in October 1996 following a change in personal 
circumstances. She stopped payments into the PPP at that time. Mrs T said that if shed 
joined the OPS earlier she wouldve had increased benefits, including the option to retire 
early. She complained to Aviva.
Aviva issued their final response to the complaint in October 2020. They didnt uphold it. 
They agreed that the application form for the PPP had incorrectly recorded Mrs T as not 
employed. But said that as the other information recorded on the form correctly confirmed 
her occupation and provided her employer and salary, they were satisfied that the adviser 
had been aware of her employment position. Aviva said they couldnt know what was 
specifically discussed between Mrs T and her adviser in 1990 as they no longer held the 
sales documentation. But they said that shed received further advice in August 1993. They 
said at this time, the adviser discussed with her that although shed been in her current 
employment since June 1989, shed never joined that employers OPS. They said the 
adviser had made it clear it was in her best interests to join the OPS. And that shed been 
recommended to get further information about the scheme so she could further discuss it 
with her adviser. They said that Mrs T followed the recommendation and had a further 
discussion with her adviser in October 1993. They said that she was told what benefits she 
would get if she joined her employers scheme. But that shed chosen not to join it. Aviva felt 
their adviser had made it clear in 1993 that Mrs T would likely lose benefits by not joining her 
employers scheme. They also said that even if they assumed that Mrs T hadnt been 
advised to join her employers scheme in 1990, she definitely knew no later than October 
1993 that she could be worse off if she didnt join her employers scheme. And that shed not 
raised any concerns about the advice in 1990 at that time. So they felt her complaint had 
been brought to them out of time. 
Mrs T didnt agree with Aviva. So she asked this service to consider her complaint. She said 
she remained certain that if shed not been able to set up a PPP in 1990, she wouldve 
joined her employers scheme. 
This service decided that Mrs Ts complaint was one that could be considered. Our 
investigator then reviewed the merits of the complaint. She felt the complaint couldnt be 
upheld. She said that as the 1990 adviser had been a tied agent, there was no obligation on 
him to make a recommendation on which pension scheme would be most suited to Mrs T. 
And that this service wouldnt expect an adviser to refuse to let a customer set up a PPP just 
because an OPS was available. She felt that it was more likely than not that the 1990 
adviser didnt discuss the option of joining her employers OPS with Mrs T. But she didnt 
think that Mrs T wouldve acted any differently if he had. She said this was because Mrs T 
hadnt joined her employers scheme in 1993, despite being encouraged to join it by her 
1993 adviser. Therefore she felt Mrs T wouldve made the same decision about the PPP if 
shed been given the same information about considering the OPS in 1990.
Mrs T didnt agree with our investigator. She said she hadnt known her adviser had been a 
tied agent at the time of the advice. Shed thought they were independent. She didnt think 
the adviser had acted in her best interests. Mrs T also felt that the situation in 1993 was 
different from that in 1990 as she had already set up, and was contributing to, a PPP. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will disappoint Mrs T. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Ill first look at the advice given in 1990.
1990 advice
The adviser was a tied representative, not an independent financial adviser. As such, he 
wasnt under an obligation to conduct a full review and make a personal recommendation. 
As our investigator noted, this means whilst we would expect the adviser to encourage a 
consumer to obtain details of their employers scheme  there wasnt any obligation on the 
adviser to weigh up the pros and cons of each type of scheme and make a recommendation 
on which one would be most suitable.
Mrs T told this service that the form was completed by the adviser, rather than herself. She 
said that the 1990 meetings focus was to sell her a pension. She said there was no 
consideration of her OPS. She said that the adviser knew she wasnt a member of her 
employer's OPS. So she felt he shouldve advised her to join the OPS rather than to take out 
a PPP. Mrs T said that the PPP shouldnt have been sold to her in 1990. I can see that the application form incorrectly states that Mrs T wasnt employed. But other 
parts of the form show Mrs Ts occupation and that she was earning a taxable salary. Based 
on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the adviser was aware of Mrs Ts employment status. So 
I consider that the adviser shouldve mentioned the option of joining Mrs Ts employers 
OPS. And he shouldve encouraged her to get a copy of the scheme booklet so she could 
make an informed decision.
The advice was given over 30 years ago. Due to the length of time thats passed since then, 
Aviva no longer hold any sales documentation apart from a copy of the application form. So 
Ive no way of knowing exactly what was discussed then. So I need to make a finding based 
on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Based on what Ive seen, I agree 
with our investigator that its more likely than not that the option to join the OPS wasnt 
discussed in 1990.
Before reaching a conclusion on the complaint as a whole, Ive gone on to consider the 1993 
advice. Aviva still held a copy of the fact find carried out at that time. 
1993 advice
Ive reviewed the documentation available from the 1993 advice. The fact find records that 
two meetings took place in 1993  in August and October. It includes comments from the 
adviser that he had advised Mrs T several times to join her OPS. The notes also record that 
she fully realised and accepted the loss in company benefits after obtaining a scheme 
booklet. 
As a tied representative, the adviser was only licensed to make recommendations based on 
Aviva products. He wasnt an independent financial adviser and wasnt expected to provide 
an in-depth tailored personal recommendation. From what Ive seen, he encouraged Mrs T 
to obtain the OPS scheme booklet and consider joining the OPS. This is what I wouldve 
expected him to do. I wouldnt have expected him to have advised on the pros and cons of 
joining the OPS as he wasnt making a personal recommendation. As Im satisfied that the 
adviser did draw Mrs Ts attention to the option of joining the OPS, I consider that he did 
what he was supposed to do. 
Having carefully considered the evidence, I agree with Aviva that the 1993 meeting notes 
show that the 1993 adviser encouraged Mrs T to join her OPS. The fact find makes a 
number of references to the OPS. And theres also a note recommending that Mrs T 
considered joining it. Mrs T signed the fact find, so Im satisfied that she couldve read it, and 
therefore couldve disagreed with its contents at the time. 
Mrs T told this service that the overall tone of the meeting didnt help her to realise how 
important it was for her to join the OPS. She said she remembers thinking at one point that 
the adviser was suggesting she paid into both the PPP and the OPS. So she felt that shed 
been led to believe that the OPS was simply another similar option to increasing her 
payments into her PPP. She said she definitely wasnt told that one pension was better than 
the other. Mrs T also said that the fact find hadnt been completed in full. This made her feel 
that the review wasnt being carried out effectively. She felt that the paperwork was a tick 
box exercise. She said that the 1993 review was focussed on increasing her PPP 
contribution and the recommendation to join her employer's OPS was presented as an 
option rather than a recommendation. And that she hadnt been left with the impression that 
it was more important than the benefit of having full control of her pension.
I acknowledge Mrs Ts points here. Im unable to comment on the overall tone of the 
meeting. But, based on the fact find and the recorded notes Im satisfied that the adviser did 
make it clear that she should join the OPS. The notes state: Client advised to join company pension scheme. Death in service benefits. Also employer 
contributions discussed.
Client advised to join company scheme. Scheme booklet been obtained by client and 
benefits under consideration
I have advised client several times over last month to join company scheme. Client fully 
realises and accepts the loss in company benefits. Scheme booklet and advice sought from 
employer. 
Mrs T told this service that there was no attempt by the adviser to explain that the he wasnt 
independent. And that if that had been explained to her, she wouldve made a different 
decision. I can confirm what our investigator has already told Mrs T in respect of this point. 
That is, this service would usually expect to see some form of written communication to 
explain that the adviser was acting as a tied adviser. But as theres very little documentary 
evidence in this case, our investigator couldnt make a finding on whether the advisers 
explained this point in writing. Our investigator acknowledged Mrs Ts recollection was that 
the advisers hadnt explained their status. And while she didnt doubt the honesty of that 
recollection, she couldnt find against Aviva without any documentary evidence. Therefore, 
while I acknowledge that Mrs T considers its unreasonable for this service to fail to accept 
her testimony, I have no documentary evidence to support it, so it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Avivas agent failed to explain that he wasnt independent. 
Mrs T expanded her argument on this point further. She said there appeared to be an 
assumption that she had the knowledge to differentiate between an independent and a tied 
advisor back in 1990. She said that she now considered the adviser hadnt had her best 
interests at heart, but that she didnt know that at the time. 
Even if I accepted that the adviser hadnt explained that they were a tied representative, and 
that Mrs T didnt understand the implications of that, it wouldnt change my decision. I say 
this because the 1993 adviser clearly did recommend that Mrs T joined the OPS. But she 
decided not to. Therefore despite the fact that the adviser was a tied agent, he 
recommended that she joined the OPS.
Mrs T said that she joined her employers OPS in October 1996. She told this service that 
her reason for joining at that time was due to a change in her circumstances after deciding to 
try to buy a house after becoming engaged, rather than as a result of a pension review. She 
said she felt that having her pension contributions taken directly from her wages would help 
her to save.
Overall, Im persuaded that the 1990 adviser didnt discuss the option of joining the OPS. But 
Im satisfied that the 1993 adviser did. So Ive gone on to think about whether the failure to 
consider the option of joining the OPS in 1990 caused Mrs T to act differently than she 
wouldve done if it had been discussed. 
I acknowledge Mrs T considers that if shed not been able to set up a PPP in 1990, she 
wouldve joined her employers scheme. But I agree with our investigator that this service 
wouldnt expect an adviser to refuse to let a customer set up a PPP just because an OPS 
was available. So I dont consider that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably when they sold 
Mrs T a PPP in 1990. But I acknowledge that its more likely than not that the 1990 adviser 
didnt discuss the option of joining the OPS. So Ive gone on to consider whether this 
probable failure caused Mrs T to act differently from how she wouldve done if the OPS has 
been discussed. 
From what Ive seen, the 1993 adviser did discuss the option to join the OPS. They also covered the additional benefits it wouldve offered. But Mrs T decided to go with the PPP 
option instead. As Mrs T decided to continue with her PPP contributions despite being 
encouraged to consider joining her OPS in 1993, Im satisfied that if shed been given the 
option of joining the OPS in 1990, she wouldve made the same decision.
Mrs T told this service that her circumstances were different in 1990 and 1993. And therefore 
she wouldnt necessarily have made the same decision if the option of joining the OPS had 
been raised in 1990. She said this was because shed had no pension plan at all in 1990. 
But that by 1993, shed already got a PPP. She said there couldve been some financial loss 
to her if the Aviva policy had been cancelled. She felt this aspect hadnt been considered.
Ive carefully considered what Mrs T has said. But, from what Ive seen, all of her personal 
circumstances were similar between 1990 and 1993. I acknowledge that her circumstances 
were slightly different in 1990 and 1993 due to her having already opened a PPP. But that 
doesnt change my opinion here. I say this because it wouldve been fairly simple to join the 
OPS in 1993 if Mrs T had decided to do so. She had access to the scheme booklet and this 
wouldve directed her to what shed have to do to join. And although Mrs T has noted that 
there couldve been some financial consequences to closing the PPP, I dont agree that was 
necessarily the case as the existing personal pension couldve remained in place.  
I acknowledge that Mrs T considers that its irrelevant how simple it wouldve been to join the 
OPS. Instead, she repeated that shed been led to believe that she had an equitable choice 
between the PPP and the OPS. But Im not persuaded that any of Mrs Ts points outweigh 
the fact that the 1993 adviser did what he was expected to do when he discussed the 
benefits of the OPS. I appreciate that Mrs T doesnt agree that the adviser made her aware 
that the OPS might be a better choice for her, but I cant blame Aviva for that. I say this 
because the evidence shows that the 1993 adviser recommended that Mrs T joined the 
OPS. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold Aviva responsible for Mrs Ts 
informed decision to continue to contribute to her PPP, rather than join the OPS at that time. 
Having carefully considered all the evidence, while I acknowledge that its likely that the 
1990 adviser didnt mention the option of joining the OPS, Im not persuaded that this failure 
caused Mrs T to act any differently than if the adviser had mentioned it. Therefore I dont 
uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman