DRN-2921420
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is that MBNA Limited, has treated him unfairly in regard to a transaction for 
flights abroad. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr T paid a travel company just under £1,700 using his MBNA credit card. 
This was for flights for his wife, child and himself. Mrs T had booked the flight tickets with the 
travel company on her account with it.
Mr T and family boarded the flight in February 2020. Before take-off other passengers were 
disorderly and were removed from the flight. Due to this delay Mr T and family missed their 
connecting flight. Their luggage also went astray. The travel company arranged for them to 
fly on the next available connecting flight. So they arrived just over three hours late. But their 
luggage didnt arrive for almost two days having been flown separately.
Mr T says that because of these delays they were late in meeting family members and the 
reason for the trip was impacted by these issues. He says the travel company changed its 
story about the reasons for the delay and how many passengers were disorderly. Mr T says 
this shows it clearly misrepresented the matter to him. Mr T says the disorderly people 
shouldnt have been let onto the flight at all and should have been removed from it quicker. 
So he feels the travel company is responsible for the delays and consequences of that. Mr T 
says this was particularly difficult as his child has medical issues which made what 
happened worse.
Mr T complained to the travel company but was unsuccessful. So he complained to MBNA.
MBNA felt that neither a chargeback nor a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 should be successful. So it didnt pursue a chargeback and felt that neither breach 
of contract nor misrepresentation of the contract had been made out. So it decided it 
wouldnt refund Mr T the costs of the flight or uphold his claim in regard to those flights. 
Our Investigator considered the matter and decided that MBNA didnt have to do any more. 
Mr T doesnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T accepts he made this transaction and he hasnt disputed that he knew the amount he 
was paying. Taking everything into account Im satisfied the transaction was properly 
authorised by Mr T and correctly applied to Mr Ts credit card account by MBNA. 
Mr T has provided significant and persuasive evidence of his childs significant health issues. 
He says these were made worse at the time by what happened here. Im very sorry to hear 
about these health conditions and hope treatment and support is as successful as possible.
Chargeback
MBNA uses one of the available card schemes for its credit cards which is run by a separate 
company. Within this scheme is a set of rules where card companies such as MBNA can 
challenge transactions made through the scheme through a process known as chargeback. 
In essence this involves MBNA challenging the transaction by way of one of the many 
chargeback reason codes. The merchant (the travel company here) would receive this 
chargeback and can either accept the chargeback by which the consumer, Mr T in this case, 
would receive a refund or it can defend it by evidencing why it believes the transaction 
should stand. 
There then follows a process to decide on this chargeback which goes back and forth. 
Ultimately the scheme provider can decide on whether the chargeback is successful or not. 
So it is not up to MBNA in the end whether Mr T should be refunded or not. Its important to 
note that chargeback isnt an automatic right for consumers. MBNA is also allowed to decide 
whether there is a realistic prospect of success before it decides whether to pursue the 
chargeback or not. And it can make this decision at any time during the process. But if it 
does decide to make a chargeback it needs to do so properly.
MBNA says it didnt raise a chargeback because Mr T got the service he paid for. In essence 
it believes a chargeback didnt have a reasonable prospect of success because although 
there were difficulties he purchased flights and was provided with them. It also points there 
being no appropriate reason code for what happened here.
Although Im not persuaded by some of MBNAs comments about chargeback here I dont 
think this makes a difference. This is because if MBNA had raised a chargeback, based on 
what we know, I think it would have been unsuccessful. I say this because, having 
considered what happened here, and the scheme itself, I think on balance that the travel 
company would have successfully defended the chargeback on the grounds that the service 
that was purchased was provided in line with the agreement made. So I dont think Mr T lost 
out because of what MBNA did in relation to chargeback.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Ts MBNA credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against MBNA as he does against the 
supplier (the travel company) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier, as long as certain qualifying conditions are met.
For a successful claim these qualifying conditions would have to be met and Mr T would 
need to show a breach of contract or a material misrepresentation by the travel company 
with regard to the contract for the flights which led Mr T to purchase the flights he otherwise 
wouldnt have. In the event of these tests being satisfied then Mr T can recoup his losses 
and any consequential losses.
For claritys sake I shall consider breach and misrepresentation first as whether or not the 
qualifying conditions are met is immaterial if there is no breach or misrepresentation made 
out.
Mr T has argued vehemently that the travel companys varying explanations of what 
happened with regard to the disorderly passengers means it has misrepresented to him. But 
the issue here is not whether the travel company changed its story about the behaviour of 
these passengers. MBNA isnt responsible for this.MBNA can only be held liable if the travel company made misrepresentations to Mr T before 
or during the contract (by buying the tickets) and these misrepresentations led to Mr T 
buying these tickets that he otherwise wouldnt have bought or in other ways were relied 
upon by Mr T to his detriment. Clearly whatever the travel company said about the unruly 
passengers on the flight was said to Mr T long after he bought the tickets for the flight. So he 
couldnt have relied on these comments by the travel company when buying the tickets. 
Considering what happened here Im satisfied the travel company didnt say anything 
material to him before buying the tickets that made him buy the tickets he wouldnt have 
otherwise bought. And Im not persuaded he relied on these comments in any decision 
making in relation to the exercising of the contract which led to him suffering detriment 
unfairly. If there was any misrepresentation it was after the events in question and were not 
relied upon to Mr T or his familys detriment.
So that leaves breach of contract, and accordingly Ive studied the terms of the agreement 
entered. The terms and conditions here set out what should happen both in what is planned 
(that is where the flights go ahead without issue) and also what should happen when things 
go wrong (such as delays). This enables consumers to understand what will happen when 
things do go wrong-which is not uncommon in international travel.
In essence this agreement says that in the event of delay the travel company will:
carry you and your baggage as soon as it can on another of its flights on which 
seating is available.
carry you and your baggage within a reasonable period of time to your destination 
shown on your ticket on: (i) another of our flights; or (ii) a flight performed by another 
airline; or (iii) by other mutually agreed means and class of carriage.
Here the travel company arranged for Mr Ts group to travel on its next available flight 
arriving a few hours later than had been scheduled. So as Mr T reached his destination in a 
way thats outlined in the contract, I think that the travel company remedied any potential 
breach of contract caused by the delay. I know that this delay must have been inconvenient, 
but I dont think that theres been any breach of contract here that I can hold MBNA jointly 
liable for under Section 75. I say this because Mr T and his group were put on the next 
available flight, which I think fits the as soon as it can criteria. And the luggage, although 
travelling separately, was delivered within two days to Mr T. Considering what happened 
here I think that is within a reasonable period as set out in the agreement. 
Mr T points to the contract and says that it states that the travel company is obliged to take 
all reasonable measures necessary to avoid delay in carrying you and your baggage. He 
says it didnt take necessary measures to avoid delays by allowing the passengers on
board after it was clear that they were not safethe fight started during boarding. Im not 
persuaded by this. Firstly Mr T hasnt provided any persuasive evidence regarding the unruly 
passengers and exactly what happened, exactly where and exactly when and what the travel 
company did where and when. Secondly the behaviour of other passengers is a subjective 
issue and these passengers clearly had agreements in place to travel on the flight so I could 
understand attempts being made to sort out the root cause of the trouble by the travel 
company. Lastly clearly passenger behaviour is an issue which can change for better or 
worse and can be hard to predict and sometimes manageable and sometimes not. I think it 
would be very easy to say that because they behaved in such a way that led to them being 
removed from the flight later that it was clear that they were always going to behave in 
such a manner earlier. But Mr T hasnt described what the travel company did wrong at 
which exact point to show on balance that it couldnt allow the passengers to board at all. I 
think the delays here sit with the disorderly passengers more than they do with the travel 
company and by extension MBNA.Mr T says that the travel company kept lying to me. It seems unlikely to me that when 
considering the facts of the matter, and that the travel company honoured the contract 
(despite the increased effort to do so than had the flight gone ahead as normal) that it chose 
to deliberately tell Mr T lies. Particularly when considering it has nothing to gain by doing so 
considering it honoured the contract anyway. And whatever it said on this issue Mr T hasnt 
demonstrated on balance that the travel company acted unreasonably. Clearly by trying to 
deal with the passengers one way or another it was trying to avoid delay.
Mr T clearly feels disappointed with the customer service he received from the travel 
company. However MBNA can only be held liable for misrepresentations relied upon to 
detriment or breaches of the contract once agreed. So although Mr T is clearly disappointed 
with the customer service he received I do not feel MBNA should do anything more in this 
complaint.
Lastly I should add that the Investigator made comments with regard to the qualifying criteria 
of s75 and the need for the Debtor, Creditor Supplier relationship to be in place. I concur 
with those comments in relation to Mr T only having a contract for his personal carriage as 
he wasnt the person who made the contract for the group of travellers travelling here. So 
although he financed the transaction he isnt in a place to complain on behalf of the other 
members of the group. But this doesnt make a difference here because notwithstanding 
this, Im not persuaded breach or misrepresentation has been made out here-so there isnt 
any consequential liability for MBNA to be held to anyway.
So all in all, Im not persuaded MBNA has done anything wrong here. I think MBNA has 
treated Mr T fairly throughout. Accordingly Mr Ts complaint isnt successful. I appreciate Mr 
T will be disappointed with this decision. And I can see he feels he has a very strong position 
on this matter. But for the reasons Ive described I do not agree with Mr Ts position. 
He is at liberty to not accept my decision and continue with his dispute with MBNA through 
other avenues. However I should remind Mr T that should he chose to do so, through the 
Courts as he has suggested, it will be at his own cost as such processes are not without cost 
or risk (unlike this service which is free to eligible complainants under the rules we operate 
under). So in summary this complaint doesnt succeed for the reasons Ive given above.
My final decision
Accordingly I do not uphold the complaint against MBNA Limited. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 November 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman