DRN-1769407
 
The complaint
Mrs R says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
("PPI") policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was added to 
Mrs R's credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. Tesco disagreed with 
the adjudicator's view, so the complaint was passed to me.
 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs R 
and to Tesco on 19 February 2020. I summarise my findings:
I'd seen a copy of the credit card application which Mrs R signed. It includes a box to 
tick if the applicant wishes to take out PPI. It says Tesco strongly recommends that 
the applicant take out the cover. But there was nothing that I thought gave the 
impression (as Mrs R has suggested) that her application would be more likely to 
succeed if she opted to take the cover. Theres a tick in the box to indicate that Mrs R 
wished to take the cover. I thought it was clear from the way the form was set out that 
the PPI was optional. And I thought Mrs R decided to take it, knowing that she had a 
choice. 
 
I was satisfied from the application form provided that Mrs R applied for the credit 
card and PPI by post. So I thought it was unlikely that she had any direct contact with 
Tescos staff about the application, or that Tesco recommend the PPI to Mrs R 
personally. This meant that Tesco didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. But it 
did have a responsibility to give Mrs R enough information to decide whether the 
policy was right for her, knowing what other means shed have had of making her 
monthly credit card payments if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job.
 
I accepted that it was possible the information Tesco gave Mrs R about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Mrs R chose to take out the policy. So 
she appeared to have wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably 
forgotten that now, so many years later.
 Based on what she's told us about her circumstances at the time, Mrs R was eligible 
for the policy. I acknowledged that she's told us she'd have been entitled to six 
months' full pay, followed by six months' half pay from her employer at the time if 
she'd been off sick. And she'd have been entitled to redundancy pay. But if she'd 
made a successful claim on the policy, it would have helped with her monthly credit 
card repayments for up to 12 months per successful claim. What was more, it would 
have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs R received from her employer, 
allowing her to use those to meet other day-to-day expenses. And she wouldn't have 
had to use her limited savings to make her credit card repayments.
 
I'd borne in mind that Mrs R's told us that she had several medical conditions when 
she took out the policy. And it was for this reason that the adjudicator recommended 
that the complaint should be upheld. But Mrs R had told us that she'd never had any 
time of work for some of them. And the longest she's had to take off work for any of 
them is a week.
 
To claim for accident or sickness under the PPI policy, Mrs R would have had to be 
off sick for at least 30 consecutive days. Based on what she's told us, I thought it was 
unlikely that when she took out the policy in 2001 she'd have expected to need to 
take that long off work for any of the conditions she had at that time, or for any 
conditions arising from them. And she could potentially have claimed successfully if 
she'd lost her job, or if she'd been off sick with any condition that didn't result from 
her existing conditions.
 
So taking everything into account, I wasnt convinced, on balance, that it was likely 
that Mrs R's medical conditions meant that she'd have made a different decision 
about taking out the PPI if she'd been given better information about the exclusions 
relating to existing medical conditions. And based on what I'd seen of her 
circumstances at the time, Mrs R wasnt affected by any of the policy's other 
exclusions or limitations. The policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. And as Mrs R was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it 
without any further cost if her situation changed.
 
For the reasons I'd set out, I didnt think it was likely that better information about the 
PPI would have put Mrs R off taking it out. So I didn't think she'd lost out as a result 
of anything that Tesco may have done wrong.
 
I'd thought about everything Mrs R has said - including what she's said about not 
having been told that she could buy PPI elsewhere. But Tesco wasn't obliged to tell 
Mrs R about products that may have been available from other providers. So this 
didn't change my conclusion.
 
This meant that I was currently of the view that Tesco didnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Tesco had paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because:Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mrs R, 
that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
further submissions
Neither Mrs R nor Tesco has provided any further comments or evidence, and the time for 
doing so has now expired.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, I dont think theres any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in 
my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman