DRN-2556180
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with how HSBC UK Bank Plc responded when she informed them that 
she was experiencing financial difficulties.  
What happened
Mrs M has a credit card with HSBC. In June 2019 Mrs M contacted HSBC and explained 
that she was experiencing financial difficulties and asked HSBC to reduce the balance owing 
on the credit card by way of a settlement offer. HSBC sent an income and expenditure form 
to Mrs M so that they could better understand Mrs Ms financial situation, but they didnt 
receive the completed form from Mrs M.
In November 2019, Mrs M contacted HSBC again and confirmed that she was experiencing 
financial difficulties and that she would like a reduced settlement on her credit card. HSBC 
conducted an income and expenditure assessment verbally with Mrs M at that time and 
following this HSBC didnt feel that a reduced settlement offer was warranted. 
Instead, HSBC gave Mrs M a 60-day period of breathing space during which time no 
interest of fees would be charged on the card. HSBC made this offer to enable Mrs M time to 
resolve uncertainties in her position and to consider her options, which included the 
possibility of applying for a consolidation loan which may have resulted in Mrs M paying a 
lower monthly repayment amount, albeit potentially over a longer term.
Mrs M wasnt happy that HSBC hadnt accepted her request for a reduced settlement 
amount, so she made a complaint. 
HSBC looked at Mrs Ms complaint, but they felt that they were under no obligation to offer 
Mrs M a reduced settlement amount and confirmed that they didnt feel that Mrs Ms financial 
circumstances warranted such an offer. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, and she was also unhappy that HSBC 
wouldnt correspond with a representative that she informed them by letter she wished to 
authorise on the account. So, she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that HSBC hasnt been 
obliged to offer Mrs M a reduced settlement and that the 60-day breathing space that HSBC 
provided Mrs M did represent a positive and sympathetic approach to Mrs Ms situation. 
Our investigator also noted that HSBC had advised Mrs M that they required a Third Party 
Mandate to be completed by Mrs M before they would authorise her representative on her 
account, and because this hadnt been completed by Mrs M until several months after she 
made her initial request by letter, they didnt feel that HSBC had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not acknowledging Mrs Ms representative until that time. So, they also 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs M remained dissatisfied, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs M feels strongly about this complaint. But having conducted my review I 
find that I have reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and for essentially the 
same reasons.
I must begin by noting that Mrs M has engaged in lengthy correspondence with our 
investigator via her representative and has provided detailed rationales as to why she does 
not agree with the view put forward by our investigator. I hope Mrs M does not consider it a 
discourtesy that I will not respond in similar detail here. As an informal dispute resolution 
service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of 
formality. So, my response here will focus on what I consider to be the crux of this complaint. 
This means that if I do not refer to a specific point raised by Mrs M it shouldnt be taken that I 
havent read and considered that point, but rather that I dont feel that addressing that point 
would have any impact on the overall outcome of my decision. 
Mrs M is of the opinion that HSBC did not treat her positively and sympathetically when 
declining her request for a reduced settlement offer. Where a customer has had the benefit 
of money on credit, its almost always going to be the view of this service that its fair that the 
customer pays that money back. However, in situations where a customer has told a 
business that they are experiencing financial difficulty, what this service would expect is that 
the business responds positively and sympathetically to that customer to enable them to 
make repayments that are appropriate to their current financial position.
In this instance, HSBC took income and expenditure information from Mrs M over the 
telephone. And whilst this information suggested that Mrs M might still be able to meet her 
repayments, HSBC acknowledged that there was some uncertainty around Mrs Ms 
immediate financial future, including whether Mrs M might have found new employment. So, 
they gave Mrs M a period of 60-days breathing space during which time interest and 
charges wouldnt accrue on the account. 
This was to enable Mrs M to better understand what her financial circumstances might be 
moving forwards, including what her employment position might be, and the opportunity 
remained for Mrs M and HSBC to come to further arrangements if they were needed once 
that 60-day period had expired.
So, Im satisfied that HSBC did respond to Mrs M positively and sympathetically here. They 
conducted an income and expenditure assessment and gave Mrs M a period where her 
account wouldnt accrue interest and charges so that she could see whether she would be 
able to continue with the required contractual payments - without the need for a payment 
plan or other action which would have impacted her credit file.
I understand that Mrs M believes that the income and expenditure information that she 
provided to HSBC at this time wasnt accurate, and so the information that HSBC based their 
assessment on was wrong. But this isnt something that I can fairly censure HSBC for, given 
that HSBC acted in good faith on the information provided to them.Unfortunately, in this instance it appears that no further agreement was reached between 
Mrs M and HSBC, and I note that the lines of communication appear to have broken down 
because of a dispute between Mrs M and HSBC about whether Mrs Ms representative was 
authorised to act on her behalf.
Mrs M has stated that she provided her authority to HSBC via a letter, whereas HSBC have 
advised that they requested a Third Party Mandate to be completed and returned to them in 
order for the authority to take effect. 
Essentially, Mrs M is disagreeing here with HSBCs processes for authorising third party 
representatives on accounts. But it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a business 
to change its processes, or to countermand them unless there it is clearly the case that an 
unfair outcome has come about as a result. But that isnt the case here, because Mrs M 
could have supplied the mandate to enable to authority to take effect, and HBC are entitled 
to request that a specific Third Party Mandate be completed to enable a representative to be 
authorised on an account.
Mrs M has stated that she didnt receive the mandates that HSBC sent. But HSBC have 
demonstrated to this service that several mandates were sent to Mrs M, and that they were 
sent to the correct address. This doesnt mean that Mrs M received these mandates, but this 
service is unable to hold a business accountable for undelivered post. So, while I can 
appreciate that this will be frustrating for Mrs M, Im unable to uphold this aspect of her 
complaint on this basis.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that HSBC have treated Mrs M 
unfairly or unreasonably here, considering everything I have explained above, and I so I 
wont be upholding these aspects of her complaint or asking HSBC to take any further action 
in these regards. 
However, I do note that HSBC did charge interest on Mrs Ms account in January and 
February 2020, when the interest on the account was supposed to be frozen. I am therefore 
upholding this complaint on this basis only. 
It is my understanding that HSBC have acknowledge their error in this regard and have 
already taken steps to reimburse the interest charged back to Mrs Ms account. I feel that 
this represents a reasonable resolution, and so I wont be asking HSBC to take any addition 
action beyond this.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs M was wanting, but I hope that I have been 
able to explain why I consider this to be a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. If 
Mrs M is still in financial difficulty then it would be expected that HSBC would continue to 
treat her positively and sympathetically moving forwards, but this doesnt necessarily mean 
that HSBC would need to reduce or write off any balance currently outstanding.
Putting things right
HSBC should reimburse the interest charged in January and February 2020 back to Mrs Ms 
account, if they have not already done so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman