DRN-3632052
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Chiltern Consultancy Limited (Chiltern) provided her with 
inappropriate advice about her pension savings in 2011. And she complains that, since then, 
Chiltern has failed to provide appropriate servicing of her pension investments. 
What happened
It appears that Mrs H and her husband (Mr H) had been clients of Chiltern for a number of 
years prior to 2011. In 2011 Chiltern provided advice to Mrs H about the consolidation of two 
pension plans that she held with separate providers. The report from the time indicates that 
Mrs Hs main objective was to increase the flexibility offered by her pension arrangements 
and allow a discretionary fund manager (DFM) to take over the investment management of 
her pension savings. The report noted that the DFM already undertook a similar role in 
respect of general investments held by Mr and Mrs H.
Chilterns advice was that Mrs H should transfer her pension savings from the two providers 
into a new self-invested pension plan (SIPP). It told her that it would charge a 3% fee for its 
advice about the transfer, and then an on-going advice fee of 0.5% per annum. The report 
also noted that the DFM would additionally levy an annual management charge of 1%. It 
showed Mrs H that, taken together, the new charges would be likely higher than she was 
paying on her existing pension plans.
But Mrs Hs objective, to have her pension savings invested by the DFM, could not be met 
under her existing arrangements or alternative stakeholder or personal pension plans. So 
Chiltern thought the transfer to the SIPP was appropriate in Mrs Hs circumstances. Mrs H 
accepted Chilterns advice and her pension savings were moved into the SIPP.
Chiltern says that, due to Mrs Hs geographical location, much of its ongoing advice and 
servicing was provided by email or telephone. But it notes that, when requested, it met face 
to face with Mrs H, and her husband, in 2014 and 2018. It says it sent her reviews of her 
pension savings twice a year, and undertook other ad-hoc work for Mrs H as requested.
In 2020 Mrs H decided to transfer her pension savings to a self-advised arrangement and 
terminated the services of Chiltern and the DFM. It appears that, although it wasnt providing 
any advice on that transfer, Chiltern did become involved with its implementation. Mrs H 
says that the charges she is now paying on her pension savings are considerably cheaper, 
and that Chiltern failed to make her aware of the option of lower fees in the preceding years.
Chiltern accepts that it failed to provide the normal reviews of Mrs Hs pension savings in 
2020. So Chiltern offered to refund the charges it took from Mrs Hs pension savings in that 
year and pay her a further £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs H didnt accept that offer and 
brought her complaint to this Service.
Mrs Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
advice Chiltern had given Mrs H in 2011 was suitable, and met the objectives it had recorded 
at that time. He thought that the servicing Chiltern had provided in the subsequent years had 
been reasonable. And he didnt think it reasonable to compare the charges Mrs H was now 
paying on her pension investments to those she had paid in the past  he said the two 
servicing propositions she was comparing were markedly different. The investigator agreed 
that Chiltern hadnt provided the required reviews in 2020. He thought that the offer Chiltern 
had made to Mrs H in that regard was reasonable.
Mrs H didnt agree with that assessment. She said she had no requirement for her modest 
pension savings to be managed by the DFM. And she said that if Chiltern had provided her 
with better information she would have chosen the option with cheaper fees. She says that 
over the ten years Chiltern managed her pension savings it provided no analysis on the 
suitability of her investments, or the growth of her pension savings. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs H and by Chiltern. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think I should first address the involvement of Mrs Hs husband in the matters that form the 
subject of this complaint. I have seen that Mrs H has taken offence that some of the actions 
of her husband were discussed during our investigators assessment. And she thinks that 
underlines the fact that Chiltern failed to see, and treat, her as a standalone client.
But I dont agree that the investigators, or Chilterns, actions have been inappropriate. It is 
clear to me from the correspondence that I have reviewed that, on many occasions, Mr H 
provided instructions to Chiltern on behalf of Mrs H. And when the face to face review 
meetings were held, both Mr H and Mrs H were present and apparently discussed both their 
investment portfolios. Their relationship with the DFM was similarly in relation to both of their 
investments. So, although I accept that some further offence might be caused to Mrs H, I 
think it reasonable, and in fact essential, that some of my findings will reflect agreements 
and discussions that were held by Chiltern with her husband acting on her behalf.There is little evidence of the discussions that took place between Mrs H and Chiltern prior to 
the recommendation that she should consolidate her pension savings. But, some objectives 
for that exercise are set out in the report Chiltern produced. That report was shared with Mrs 
H, and I think it would have been clear to her that Chilterns conclusions were on the basis of 
the objectives set out in the report. It doesnt seem that Mrs H challenged any of those 
objectives at the time, and so I must reasonably conclude they were a fair reflection of the 
instructions she gave Chiltern.
The report states that Mrs H had asked Chiltern to investigate a transfer of her pension 
benefits that would provide;
Greater flexibility and options
The ability to appoint [Name of DFM] of [DFM firm] as a discretionary fund manager.
Consolidation of your existing pension arrangements into a new pension plan.
The ability to access tax free cash without a requirement to take an income.
So I think it is clear from those objectives that Mrs H was looking for a more flexible pension 
arrangement than she currently held, and most importantly, a pension plan that would allow 
a DFM to act on her behalf when deciding how her pension savings were invested.
Chiltern considered, in its report, other alternative pension plans that Mrs H could use. But 
the objective of using a DFM meant that many of them would be unsuitable. The report set 
out the charges that Mrs H would need to pay for the new arrangement, and compared them 
to the charges she was paying on her existing plans. From that it is clear that Mrs Hs 
investment returns would be reduced by higher charges. But of course the expectation, 
whilst the report noted this was not guaranteed, would be that the use of a DFM, with 
support from Chiltern, would mean that Mrs Hs investment returns would be higher than 
would be likely from her current pension arrangements.
I appreciate that Mrs H doesnt now agree that the use of a DFM, or the additional flexibility 
offered by a SIPP, was necessary. And, with the benefit of hindsight, that may well be the 
case. But considering the objectives that were set out in Chilterns report at the time, I think 
the recommendation provided to Mrs H was entirely suitable.
The report that was given to Mrs H set out the basis of how Chiltern would charge for its 
services. It noted that these charges had been discussed with, and agreed by, Mrs H. As 
before I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs H told Chiltern that she didnt accept the 
charges as set out in the report. And whilst Chiltern hasnt been able to provide us with a 
signed fee agreement, I can see that Mr H was paying the same level of charges, and 
signed a new agreement to that effect in 2014. That document appears to have been signed 
at the face to face meeting attended by both Mr and Mrs H in August of that year.
Mrs H agreed to pay Chiltern 3% for its recommendations on the consolidation of her 
pension savings. And then she agreed to pay Chiltern 0.5% each year for its ongoing 
support on her pension investments. That fee would be in addition to the 1% charge that she 
had agreed to pay the DFM. And the charges imposed by the SIPP provider were set out in 
a key features document that was given to Mrs H, and highlighted in Chilterns report.So it seems to me that Chiltern made Mrs H sufficiently aware of the charges that she would 
need to pay for on pension savings, and that she found those charges acceptable. I have 
also noted that, in 2018, following discussions with Mr H, Chiltern agreed to reduce its 
charges on Mrs Hs pension investments to 0.25%.
Mrs H has told us that she is now benefitting from an arrangement that offers her 
substantially lower charges. She says that Chiltern should have made her aware of that 
option as part of its recommendations in 2011.
The pension arrangement that is now being used by Mrs H is designed for consumers that 
are managing their own money. So the pension arrangement doesnt offer the option for a 
financial advisor to be added to the plan. Nor does it allow a DFM to manage the 
investments on a consumers behalf. So I would absolutely expect the charges that Mrs H is 
now paying to be much lower than what she had paid in the past  when she had engaged 
the services of two regulated and professional firms to manage her pension investments.
The use of the DFM was a specific objective of the advice that Chiltern gave to Mrs H in 
2011. So I cannot agree that it would have been right for Chiltern to recommend the cheaper 
arrangement to Mrs H. Had it done so it would have prevented her from meeting many of the 
key objectives of the review. As Ive explained earlier, I think the recommendation Chiltern 
provided in 2011 was suitable  I dont think it would have been right to disregard the key 
objectives to simply find a cheaper solution. Had that been Mrs Hs over-riding objective she 
could have dispensed with the services of Chiltern entirely, and managed the consolidation 
herself.
I can see that the face to face review meetings between Mrs H and Chiltern have been 
limited. Chiltern has explained that is largely a result of geography, and Mr and Mrs H 
moving home to Scotland. But Chiltern has said it would have always agreed to a face to 
face meeting if that had been required by Mrs H. I can see that two such meetings were held 
and it appears they took place at locations that were convenient for both parties. One was 
held at a motorway service station, the other close to Heathrow airport. But I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Mrs H asked Chiltern for additional face to face meetings. I 
think it was reasonable for Chiltern to conclude that Mrs H was happy with how their 
arrangement was operating.
Chiltern accepts that it failed to provide the usual reporting for Mrs H in 2020. I dont know 
the reasons for that but would expect it to be either as a result of the disruption caused by 
the coronavirus pandemic, or Mrs Hs decision to dispense with Chilterns services later in 
the year. But, quite rightly, Chiltern has agreed to refund all the charges it took from Mrs Hs 
pension savings during that year. And it said it would pay her £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
I think that the offer Chiltern has made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I will 
direct that it is now paid to Mrs H.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs H. But I think the advice Chiltern 
provided in 2011 was suitable and appropriate to meet the objectives both parties set out at 
that time. And I think that the ongoing servicing activities undertaken since that time are in 
line with what I would expect from a financial advisor in that situation. So I dont Chiltern 
needs to do anything more than it has already offered.
Putting things right
Chiltern has accepted that it failed to provide appropriate reporting for Mrs H during 2020. As 
it has already offered, Chiltern should refund the fees that it took from Mrs Hs pension 
investments in that year (that I understand amount to £145.96).The compensation should be paid into Mrs H's new pension plan. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If Chiltern is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs H's SIPP, it should pay that amount 
direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs H's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. I assume Mrs H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer so 
the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mrs H would have been 
able to take an additional tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Chiltern should also pay to Mrs H directly the additional sum of £50 that it has offered for the 
inconvenience the lack of reporting in 2020 will have caused to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold a part of Mrs Hs complaint and direct Chiltern 
Consultancy Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman