DRN-1471055
The complaint
Mr M complains that the car he acquired, via a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr M entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement for a used car with 
Close Brothers. The car was just over eight years old and had a mileage of around 86,500.
Two weeks after acquiring the car Mr M complained to the dealership that the service light 
was illuminated despite being told the car had been serviced, the brake pad warning light 
was illuminated, the car had poor fuel consumption, the plastic part of the centre cupholder 
had come apart and there was a mileage discrepancy arising from the recorded mileage on 
two MOTs that had been carried out in 2015.
In June 2019, after some discussion with Close Brothers, Mr M decided to take the car to a 
manufacturer approved garage for a health check. Multiple issues were found with the car 
and those considered to be red were as follows; no number plate bulbs; the rear brake 
pads were worn; the drop link gaiter was twisted, and the lower arms had excessive play.
Mr M and Close Brothers werent able to agree a resolution and so Close Brothers arranged 
for the car to be independently inspected. This inspection was carried out in July 2019 and 
by this time the car had a mileage of just under 91,000. The independent engineer reported 
that there were no stored or pending fault codes and that the engine started straight away. 
The brake pad warning light illuminated, and the car was taken on a road test where the 
engineer found that the brake pads were not heavily worn, and the handbrake functioned as 
expected. The independent engineer concluded that the rear brake pads displayed some 
wear, but these were consumable items and also recommended that the front brakes 
should be serviced. They confirmed the bulbs werent illuminating on the number plate. The 
independent engineer said that in their opinion Close Brothers wasnt responsible for the 
repairs as these were issues resulting from wear and tear of serviceable items.
Mr M was unhappy at the content of the independent inspection as it hadnt covered the 
issues that had been identified with the drop link gaiter and suspension. So Close Brothers 
went back to the independent engineer to query this. The independent engineer said they 
had told Mr M that for issues under the car to be inspected a hydraulic ramp would be 
required. However, the road test had not shown any obvious issues with the cars 
suspension other than some slight wear to the bush. 
Mr M then took the car to a second manufacturer approved garage. By this time the car had 
a mileage of 92,500. This inspection found issues with the lower arm inner bush having 
excess play and needing replacement, which was an MOT fail, the rear brake pads were low 
and the sensor was adrift, the anti-roll bar drop link gaiter was split (this was also an MOT 
fail), the number plate lights didnt work, the front lower arm bushes were split, the 
underbody clips on the side skirt were missing and, under the bonnet, the fuse box cover 
clips were missing.
Close Brothers said that the issues identified as needing repair or replacement were all due 
to wear and tear due to the age and mileage of the car. It said this had been confirmed by 
one of the manufacturers approved garages that had seen Mr Ms car. It said it wouldnt 
agree to Mr Ms request to reject the car.
Mr M was unhappy at the response from Close Brothers and so complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said, looking at 
the evidence, there wasnt enough to say that the car had been faulty from the point of sale. 
All the issues with the car arose due to wear and tear and, as Mr M had been able to use the 
car, it wasnt possible to say that the issues hadnt arisen due to the car being driven by Mr 
M. 
Mr M disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said there was evidence that faults had 
been present from the point of sale and, that in any event, the number of faults that had 
arisen within the distance he had driven the car were excessive. Mr M said the independent 
inspection hadnt been sufficiently thorough and wasnt up to standard. 
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking  at this complaint  I need  to have  regard  to the relevant  law and regulations,  but I 
am not bound  by them  when  I consider  what  is fair and reasonable.
As the conditional  sale agreement  entered  into by Mr M is a regulated  consumer  
credit  agreement  this service  is able to consider  complaints  relating  to it. Close  
Brothers  is also the supplier  of the goods  under  this type of agreement,  and 
responsible  for a complaint  about  their quality.
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  there  is an implied  term that when  goods  are 
supplied  "the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory".  The relevant  law says  that the 
quality  of the goods  is satisfactory  if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  person  
would  consider  satisfactory,  taking  into account  any description  of the goods,  price  
and all other  relevant  circumstances.
The relevant  law also says  that the quality  of the goods  includes  their general  state  
and condition,  and other  things  like their fitness  for purpose,  appearance  and finish,  
freedom  from minor  defects,  safety,  and durability  can be aspects  of the quality  of the 
goods.
Here,  the car was just over eight  years  old and had a mileage  of around  86,500  and so, 
unlike  a new car, a reasonable  person,  taking  these  factors  into account,  wouldnt  
expect  it to be fault free. I think  a reasonable  person  would  expect  some  issues  with 
wear  and tear to arise  as a cars  components  arent  expected  to last indefinitely.
Mr M first complained  about  the car two weeks  after he acquired  it. On that occasion  he 
raised  an issue  with the service  light being  illuminated,  the brake  pad warning  light 
coming  on and the plastic  part of the centre  cupholder  coming  apart.  Mr M also queried  
the cars  mileage  due a discrepancy  in the recorded  mileage  in two MOTs  that had 
been  carried  out in 2015.Ive seen  that an explanation  has been  offered  about  the mileage,  and that the 
discrepancy  appears  to have  resulted  from an admin  error  when  the car had an MOT  
undertaken  in early  2015.  I havent  seen  any evidence  that the cars  mileage  has been  
tampered  with and Mr M doesnt  appear  to have  raised  this matter  further.  So, on the 
evidence  I have,  Im satisfied  the mileage  was around  86,500  at the point  of sale.
The dealership  offered  to service  the car and review  the brakes,  but Mr M declined  this 
and took the car for a health  check  at another  garage  which  specialised  in his make  of 
car. I accept  that a number  of matters  were  identified  during  this inspection  but the items  
that were  confirmed  as red, and so needing  attention,  were  the rear brake  pads  being  
worn  out, the number  plate  bulbs  not working  and issues  with the cars  suspension.  Mr 
M had driven  the car for around  3,000  miles  at this point.
While  I accept  there  appeared  to be faults  with the car in June  2019  this doesnt  mean  
that the car can be automatically  rejected.  Im unclear  as to the exact  extent  of the worn  
brakes  and suspension  at this time,  as Ive seen  that Mr M was able to continue  to drive  
the car without  these  items  being  repaired.  These  are also items  that would  be expected  
to require  maintenance  over time from wear  and tear. Im also aware  that the car had 
successfully  passed  an MOT  two days  before  Mr M had collected  it, which  would  
indicate  that at that time the car was fit for purpose.  I dont  think  I can reasonably  say 
this health-check  alone  provides  sufficient  evidence  that the car was of unsatisfactory  
quality  at the point  of sale.  
I agree  the independent  report  wasnt  as thorough  as might  have  been  expected  as the 
car wasnt  placed  on a ramp  and inspected  underneath.  So, I can understand  Mr Ms 
frustration  with the contents  of the report.  However,  although  the report  may lack 
evidence  it doesnt  mean  that this, in itself,  shows  the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality  at 
the point  of sale.  The independent  engineer  found  the car was driveable  and that there  
was no obvious  issue  with the suspension,  but they agreed  that the brakes  were  worn.  
By the time of this inspection  Mr M had driven  around  a total of 4,000  miles  in the car.
The third inspection  took place  in August  2019  after Mr M had driven  the car for a further  
1,500  miles.  This inspection  revealed  further  issues  with the car but, again,  the items  
identified  are all serviceable  ones,  that is that maintenance  and repair  issues  are to be 
expected  over time due to wear  and tear. I appreciate  that this inspection  found  that the 
car would  have  failed  an MOT,  but I cant  reasonably  say this means  the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory  quality  at the point  of sale.  By this point  the car was nearly  nine years  old 
and had a mileage  of 92,500  to which  Mr M had contributed  around  5,500  miles.
Looking  at the mileage  Mr M has been  able to do in the car I cant  reasonably  say he 
hasnt  been  able to use it. And,  when  considering  the cars  durability,  I think  a 
reasonable  person  would  expect  a car of this age and mileage  to develop  issues  that 
required  repairs  after a reasonable  period  of time.  And,  although  Mr M disagrees  that 
mileage,  he had driven  was a reasonable  distance  I disagree  as I dont  think  I have  
sufficient  evidence  to say that the car wasnt  durable.  
So, looking  at the evidence,  I dont  think  I can reasonably  say the car was faulty  at the 
point  of sale and I dont  have  enough  evidence  to say that the car wasnt  as durable  as 
a reasonable  person  would  expect.  The issues  with the car are all ones  that would  be 
reasonably  expected  to arise  over time and with the use of the car. And so, Im not 
upholding  Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman