DRN-3209702
The complaint
Mr F had motor insurance underwritten by U K Insurance Limited (UKI). He complains about 
repairs carried out following an accident. References to UKI include other organisations. 
What happened
Mr Fs car was hit in the rear by another vehicle. A repair company appointed by UKI 
replaced the rear bumper on the car due to minor damage caused in the collision. 
Mr F complained to UKI, saying that the air compressor for the rear suspension was also 
damaged in the accident, as was an exhaust bracket and a rear brake pipe. 
The repair company told UKI that it had arranged for an auto electrician to do an 
independent assessment. He said there was a fault with the control unit for the compressor, 
but there was no sign of impact damage, it was caused by wear and tear.
UKI arranged for the car to be examined at a dealership. UKIs engineer spoke to the 
dealership and also looked at photos Mr F sent. He said it would be impossible for the force 
of the minor impact to have been transferred to the air suspension pump. He said this was 
also confirmed to him by the dealership, who also confirmed the vehicle was in for 
suspension diagnosis and that it was aware of the type of damage caused by the collision. 
The engineer said It is my professional considered opinion taking into account the accident 
circumstances, the area and extent of minor damage, the position and mounting area of the 
air suspension pump and module, I feel the fault to the air suspension is unrelated to the 
incident and will not be covered by the claim. 
The engineer also said that looking at the healthcheck video from the dealership, the 
exhaust bracket had failed completely due to corrosion, not as a result of the impact.
Mr F then complained that warning lights were flashing and the car wasnt driveable. UKI 
arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car, and provided Mr F with a hire car. 
Due to Covid restrictions, this engineer wasnt able to carry out a full physical inspection of 
the car, but he did take pictures. He told UKI the air suspension pump and module had been 
impacted at some time, consistent with the vehicle being driven over a low object, and in my 
opinion is not related in any way to the minor accident damage to the rear bumper. This 
engineer said the failure of the rear exhaust bracket was due to its rusted condition and not 
due to the accident. He said he couldnt see the rear brake pipe and the car would need to 
be on a ramp to inspect it. He suggested that Mr F get this damage looked at, but said it was 
also likely to be corrosion and would not have failed due to the minor accident damage to 
the rear bumper.
So UKI told Mr F that the damage to the compressor, the exhaust bracket and the brake pipe 
were not covered by his insurance. UKI said that Mr F could make a new claim for the 
damage to the suspension as this could have been caused by driving over a low object in 
the road.
Mr F wasnt happy with UKIs response so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said UKI had acted fairly in relying on the reports it had 
obtained.
Mr F wasnt happy with the investigators response so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr F says damage to the compressor, the exhaust bracket and the brake pipe was caused in 
the accident and so should be covered by the claim.
Mr F says the repair company told him there was no actual report from the auto electrician 
who looked at the car. Mr F says there also was no report from the dealership, it was just 
asked by UKI for an opinion as to whether the damage could have been caused by wear and 
tear. Mr F says the final engineer sent by UKI just stood two metres away from the car and 
took photos, he didnt inspect it. So Mr F says there is no evidence to support UKIs view.
Mr F says that hes taken his car back to the garage that did the MOT test a few months 
before the accident. Mr F says the garage inspected the suspension pump, exhaust bracket 
and the brake calliper fluid line and confirmed all had been in working order when the MOT 
test was done. He says the garage told him the exhaust bracket had shown signs of age but 
was still in a solid state in line with the requirements of the test. Mr F says the garage told 
him there was no warning light for the suspension at the time of the test and the brake line 
wasnt showing any sign of corrosion. Mr F says from the garages own evaluation the parts 
wouldnt have failed unless a trauma force had occurred. 
Mr F says he then took the car to a dealership as he wanted to know what tests would be 
needed to tell if the damage was wear and tear or accidental. He says the dealership told 
him it would need to do diagnostic tests to see where the failure was, and then remove and 
inspect the faulty part to see what damage had occurred. Mr F says the dealership told him if 
five people had inspected the car there would a consistent explanation of where the damage 
is, which there isnt. 
Mr F says when he spoke to the dealership that examined the car after the repair he was 
told that it had advised UKI that it would need to do diagnostics and a strip down to confirm if 
the damage was accidental or wear and tear, but UKI wouldnt agree and just asked for an 
opinion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Im not an engineer. Its not my role to decide how the damage to Mr Fs car was caused or 
to say whether the expert opinions UKI obtained were right or wrong. My role is to decide 
whether UKI acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Mr Fs claim.
Mr Fs insurance policy covered him for damage caused in an accident. It didnt cover him 
for wear and tear. UKI has obtained information from a number of expert sources that 
damage to the compressor, exhaust bracket and brake pipe wasnt caused by the collision. I 
accept that not all the people who provided this information inspected the car. But they were 
able to give expert opinions based on their knowledge and experience of the type of damage 
that might be expected from a minor collision. I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to 
rely on this information. I dont think its possible to say what might have happened to Mr Fs car between the MOT 
test and the collision. So I dont think the condition of the car when the test was done shows 
how or when the damage to the suspension, exhaust bracket and brake pipe might have 
happened.
UKI has suggested that Mr F can make a new claim for the damage to the compressor. UKI 
has also said that if Mr F provides an independent professional report, and if new information 
comes to light that the damage was related to the incident, it would look to reimburse the 
cost of the report and the repairs. I think this was a fair and reasonable response to Mr Fs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the above reasons I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. So I wont be asking U K Insurance 
Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman