DRN-3095550
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as C has complained that complained that Covea Insurance plc 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mrs P, a director of C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf. 
What happened
C held a business protection insurance policy with Covea. C claimed on its policy
after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic.
Covea turned down the claim. They said that Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property 
and, while the policy did cover a specified list of diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on that list. 
As C was unhappy with Coveas response it brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for Cs claim. 
C asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Cs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain
why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Cs claim.
Damage
The core loss of income section of Cs policy provides cover for:
Business Interruption at Your Premises resulting in Loss of Gross Income
occurring in the Indemnity Period following an Incident during the Period of
Insurance caused by the operation of a Specified Peril insured under the Material
Damage Section
An incident is defined as:
an Event of Damage to insured Property used by Your Business carried on at
the Premises
The policy defines Damage as:
physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property
Covea said that reference to the Material Damage section should have been updated to 
Buildings and Trade Contents. However, I dont think that makes a difference to the 
outcome of my decision. I say that because, for this part of the policy to provide cover, the 
interruption to Cs business would need to be as a result of damage, caused by a specified 
peril, to insured property used by C at its business premises. I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to Cs property which led to its business being 
interrupted. Therefore, this section doesnt provide cover for Cs claim.  
Extension for denial of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension covers
interruption or interference with Cs business in consequence of:
an Incident as insured by this Section, occasioned by Damage to Property in
the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the use or access to the 
premises
The policy again requires there to have been damage to property. I havent seen anything to
indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property in the vicinity of Cs premises, therefore I 
dont think this extension covers its claim.
Extension for infectious diseases
The relevant part of this extension says that the policy extends cover to include interruption 
or interference with Cs business in consequence of closure (all of or part of) of the premises 
on the order or advice of any government or local authority as a result of:
1) any human infectious or contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any
person whilst at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises
Under the heading Section Definitions the policy says that wherever the following words
appear with an upper case letter they will have a specific definition. The definition for
Disease sets out a list of any of the following diseases which doesnt include Covid-19.
Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Covea might have known about when the policy
was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for all notifiable diseases. Cs 
policy isnt like this - instead it sets out a specified list of diseases which are covered by the 
policy. Theres nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for diseases not
included, including any new diseases which emerge. I think by setting out that the policy
covers the following diseases this shows that it is an exhaustive list.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would
extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think SARS and Covid-19 are the same disease.
The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. And the
World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses are
different, and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this new disease on 11February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that
these two diseases are the same and therefore this doesnt cover Cs claim.
Extension for public emergency
This extension covers the:
actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency likely
to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or
hinders the use of or access to the premises; excluding:

4) infectious or contagious diseases
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account is the relevant law.
I think the High Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case is relevant to 
Cs complaint, because the High Court considered a similar term to that within Cs policy and 
this part of the judgment wasnt appealed.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.
I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the Court. I think Cs premises
closed as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website describes as
an infectious disease. Therefore, this extension doesnt cover Cs claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome C was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I cant fairly require Covea to pay Cs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman