DRN-3465453
The complaint
Mr W complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his attempted payments.
What happened
Mr W says he tried to make a number of payments to an investment company totalling 
£90,000 in December 2021. He says he was told by HSBC to make the payments online but 
says the payments were blocked for security reasons. Mr W says it took some four days 
before the payments could be made and a number of telephone calls to HSBC. He says he 
didnt receive promised call backs from HSBC and in summary says he hasnt been dealt 
with appropriately. Mr W would like appropriate compensation for what took place over the 
four days.
HSBC says it can, in line with account terms and conditions, block a payment or account 
where it has security concerns. It says it did so here and says Mr W failed its security 
questions. HSBC accepts its actions caused an inconvenience and has paid £190 
compensation but says the transactions were of high value.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to block a payment and 
thought there were legitimate concerns about some of the transaction details which Mr W 
wished to check. The investigator didnt think the delay was significant and thought HSBC 
had made a fair compensation offer for the inconvenience.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says he wasnt treated fairly and says HSBC asked him 
what the payment was for which is none of its business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how 
strongly he feels about the events of December 2021.
I am sure Mr W appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies 
and that they must have security measures in place to protect its and its customers money. I 
accept that on occasions, as here, that legitimate and genuine transactions can be made 
subject to such security measures which means customers are caused inconvenience. But I 
dont think that means that HSBC made a mistake here by having such concerns in 
circumstances where Mr W was attempting payments of £90,000. I also think that HSBC 
makes clear online and in its account terms and conditions that on occasions security 
measures will be applied to accounts or transactions.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties as is the content of the 
telephone calls, so there is no need for me to repeat what was said or to repeat the 
complaint points. I can see that Mr W failed security questions but overall, I dont consider 
that the transaction was delayed by a significant amount of time. And can see that part of the 
delay was caused by Mr W understandably wanting to check the transaction details when an 
issue was raised about them.
Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for the delay in processing the payments and 
explained what took place. I also think that it has acted fairly by paying what I think is a fair 
and reasonable compensation amount of £190 for the delay and inconvenience. Im also 
satisfied that amount tales into account that I have not seen any evidence of financial loss by 
Mr W.
I appreciate Mr W questions why HSBC staff asked him about the transactions. But I think it 
was entitled to do so in the light of the security concerns, and as I have made clear, has a 
duty to protect its customers money. I accept that means on occasions questions must be 
asked about such matters which can appear intrusive.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman