DRN-3416145
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr W, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf. T is also represented in this
complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of T.
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with AXA. T claimed on its policy after its
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic.
AXA turned down Ts claim as they said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. They
added that while the policy covered a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the
diseases covered.
Unhappy with AXAs response, T brought its complaint to us. It thought its claim should be
covered under different sections of the policy.
Damage
T said the core business interruption section of the policy covers damage and that the
definition of damage is wide enough to cover a loss even where there hasnt been physical 
damage. T has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company 
(2020) in support of why its claim should be paid.
Denial of access
T said it was forced to operate a reduced business due to the outbreak of Covid-19 within 
the local area. It said use of its premises had been hindered by the closure of businesses 
within a one mile radius being closed by the government regulations, as well as guidance 
regarding social distancing and staying at home. T said these actions were as a result of the 
damage Covid-19 had caused. 
Disease
T said the list of diseases set out in this extension of the policy arent an exhaustive list and
theres nothing in the policy to say that new diseases cant be added or are excluded. T said 
the list of diseases are very similar to the Governments list of Notifiable Diseases and 
therefore its reasonable to conclude that Covid-19 should be added. T said that as there 
had been cases of Covid-19 within 25 miles of its premises, this extension should cover its 
claim. T also referred to Case No.11 O 66/20, which was considered in Germany, in support 
of its claim. 
Closure
T said it was required to close due to the Governments guidance on social distancing and 
therefore it had experienced a loss of use of the premises. T said the closing of the premises 
was due to health and sanitation issues as it wasnt safe for people in be in close proximity 
to each other.
Unspecified customers and unspecified suppliers and storage
T said that Covid-19 had caused damage at its customers premises and led to supply 
issues from its suppliers. 
Other factors
T also said that it had expected to be covered following a statement made by the 
Government towards the start of the pandemic and had a reasonable expectation that its
policy would provide cover in these circumstances. 
T said that Covid-19 wasnt excluded by the policy and that where the policy is ambiguous it
should be read in the favour of the insured.
Initial investigation
Our investigator looked into Ts claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt think
the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It referred to the judges comments in
Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & AXA Insurance
Designated Activity Company [2021] IEHC 263 (Brushfield) in support of why its claim
should be covered under the clause regarding sanitary arrangements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going to 
address them all in this decision but will instead focus on what I see as the central issues to 
this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ts business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ts claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of Ts policy provides cover:
If any building(s) or other property used by you at the premises for the purpose 
of the business suffers damage during the period of insurance and as a result the business is interrupted or interfered with, then we will pay you for each item 
in your schedule the amount of loss resulting from the interruption or 
interference...
The policy defines damage as Accidental loss, destruction or damage.
Therefore, for cover to apply under the core business interruption section, Ts business
interruption would need to be as a result of accidental loss, destruction or damage to
buildings or property used by T at its premises. I dont think this would provide cover for Ts
claim, because I dont think the business interruption was as a result of damage.
T has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020).
However, I understand this has been overturned by the Court of Appeal. Ive considered this,
but Ive also considered other cases which I think are more relevant to Ts claim, including
TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British
Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development
Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Ts property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of
potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Ts premises.
However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt
recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive amount of
SARS-CoV-2 on Ts property. And the presence of any particular virus doesnt automatically
amount to damage. So, this section of the policy doesnt provide cover. 
Denial of access, unspecified customers and unspecified suppliers and storage
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. The extensions for 
denial of access, unspecified customers, and unspecified suppliers and storage all require 
the losses to be due to damage to property or premises. As I dont think Covid-19 caused 
damage to premises or property for the reasons set out above, I dont think these extensions 
cover Ts claim.
Disease
This extension covers business interruption or interference due to, the occurrence of any of 
the following specified human infectious or human contagious diseases manifested at Ts 
premises or within a 25 mile radius. 
The policy goes on to set out a list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-19. As Covid-19 
isnt in that list, its not covered by the policy. When reaching this finding Im mindful that 
Covid-19 wasnt something AXA might have known about when the policy was drafted. 
However, there were policies that provided cover for all notifiable diseases. While I accept 
that the list in Ts policy reflects some of the Governments list of notifiable diseases, many 
other notifiable diseases also arent included. Ts policy does not say that it covers notifiable 
diseases and instead sets out a specified list of diseases which are covered by the policy.
H has referred to Case No.11 O 66/20 which was considered in Germany. While Ive 
considered this, I think Rockliffe Hall Limited v Travelers Insurance Company Limited: [2021] 
EWHC 412 is more relevant. At paragraphs 36-37 the judge said:The appearance of the list itself also suggests that the list of diseases in the 
definition is exhaustive. That is because it begins with the words "Infectious 
Disease means". That reading is supported by authority. Arden LJ held 
in Singapore Airlines Ltd v Buck Consultants Ltd [2011] EWCA Civ 1542; [2012] 2 
Costs LO 132 at [19]:
"Definitions in statutes and deeds can be exhaustive or non-exhaustive. Non-
exhaustive definitions are usually prefaced by the word "include". More often 
however, a definition is intended to be exhaustive and it will then generally begin 
with the word "mean" or "means". It is difficult to read a definition which begins 
with the word "means" as other than exhaustive."
The starting point therefore is that there is good reason to posit that only the 
diseases on the list count as "Infectious Diseases", as defined.
While there is nothing in the extension that specifically says any new diseases are excluded,
there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for diseases not
included, including any new diseases which emerge. The policy says that it covers the 
followingdiseases which I think indicates that it is a closed list. I dont think this extension 
can fairly be read to cover any and all diseases and therefore this doesnt cover Ts claim.
Closure
The same extension also covers business interruption or interference as a result of:
the closing of the whole or part of the premises by order of the public authority
as a result of a defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the 
premises.
T said that its premises closed because safe social distancing couldnt be maintained and 
therefore resulted in a de facto closure due to health and sanitation issues. Im not going to 
make a finding on whether T was required to close because even it was, I dont think the 
inability to social distance would reasonably be considered a defect in Ts sanitary 
arrangements.
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, the case of
Brushfield, as T has specifically referred to it. This case took place in the Irish courts so, as T 
says, this is not binding on English courts. However, I dont think the judges comments in 
Brushfield mean that Ts claim should be paid.
The judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves some element of 
deficiency or fault. I havent seen anything to persuade me there was any deficiency or fault 
in Ts sanitary arrangements. Im not persuaded that the normal operation of a business can 
be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Ts premises which led to its closure. 
I also I havent been provided with any evidence to persuade me that it was the 
circumstances at Ts premises in particular that led to the Governments decision to 
introduce the restrictions it did. For these reasons, I dont think this extension covers Ts 
claim.Other factors
Although T might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Ts policy provides cover
for its claim.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy would be considered ambiguous and
I dont think it matters that Covid-19 isnt excluded as there isnt a clause in the policy that
provides cover.
I understand this isnt the outcome T was hoping for but, having considered the matter very
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to pay Ts claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman