DRN-3500580
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as N, believes that Barclays Bank UK PLC is 
overcharging it for its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) repayments.
This complaint is brought to this service on Ns behalf by one of its directors, Mr H.
What happened
In June 2020, N successfully applied to Barclays for a £50,000 BBL and received a letter 
from Barclays which confirmed that the BBL monthly repayments would begin a year later, in 
July 2021, and would be £833.33 per instalment. However, when the instalments began to 
be repaid in July 2021, Mr H noticed that the monthly repayment amounts were more than 
the £833.33 instalment amount previously explained to N by Barclays. Mr H wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint on Ns behalf.
Barclays looked at Ns complaint. But they noted that the higher instalment amounts were 
the result of the BBL interest which Barclays felt was being correctly applied. So, they didnt 
uphold Ns complaint. Mr H wasnt happy with Barclays response, so he referred Ns 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Barclays were 
acting unfairly towards N regarding the interest that was being applied to the repayment 
instalments, and so they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its notable that when Mr H referred Ns complaint to this service he supplied 
what he explained was a copy of the loan agreement which he felt demonstrated that N had 
been told that the BBL repayments would be £833.33 per month. However, the document 
that Mr H supplied in this regard isnt the loan agreement, but rather is a letter from Barclays 
to N confirming that the loan repayment direct debit has been set up and that payments will 
commence from July 2021.
This direct debit set up confirmation letter does state that the instalment amount would be 
£833.33 per month. However, upon review of the actual loan agreement document, which 
was provided to N when the BBL was first agreed and set up, its notable that this agreement 
states the following:
Payments in the first year:
During the first 12 months, the UK Government will pay interest due under 
this Loan to the Bank. This is known as the Business Interruption Payment.
No repayment of capital is required during the first 12 months of the loan.
Payments in the subsequent years:
Starting 13 months after the date of first drawdown, the Borrower will repay 
the capital by making:
60 instalments of £833.33 payable monthly.
In addition, at the same time as each monthly repayment of capital, the 
Borrower shall also pay the interest that has accrued on the account at that 
time. The interest amount will reduce over the life of the loan as the capital is 
repaid.
In consideration of the above, Im satisfied that the loan agreement does clearly confirm that 
when monthly repayments commence on the BBL after the first year, those repayments will 
be at the rate of £833.33 per month, plus calculated interest.
While it is the case that the direct debit confirmation letter sent by Barclays did state the 
direct debit amount as being £833.33 per month  i.e. the capital balance portion of the 
repayment without any reference to interest - it would be expected that N, as the borrower, 
would understand the terms of the loan as already explained on the loan agreement. 
As such, I feel that the direct debit confirmation letter should have been understood by N in 
conjunction with the information present on the loan agreement, as quoted above. This 
included that the £833.33 amount was the capital repayment amount only, and that interest 
would be added to that amount for each repayment.
It also must be noted that because interest for the BBL is calculated against the remaining 
capital balance on a monthly basis, the interest amount to be added to each instalment will 
decrease each month, in line with the decreasing capital balance. This means that there isnt 
one single instalment amount that can be given to the borrower, but rather (assuming no 
repayment instalments are missed by the borrower) that the total monthly repayment amount 
will decrease each month.
I also note that Mr H has explained that he personally calculated £833.33 over 60 months to 
equal approximately £50,000  which was the capital balance borrowed without any interest 
 but has also confirmed he understood that the BBL incurred interest at the rate of 2.5%.
Im aware that Mr H contacted Barclays on Ns behalf to enquire about the £833.33 
repayment amount and wasnt satisfied with the answers he received. However, upon 
reviewing Barclays contact notes, while it may have been the case that Mr H was given 
inaccurate information in the first instance, Barclays notes appear to confirm that the correct 
reasons for the higher instalment amounts were given to Mr H shortly afterwards. 
Additionally, given that Im satisfied N agreed to the BBL on the terms as laid out in the loan 
agreement, which included that the monthly instalments were £833.33 plus interest, I dont 
feel that N has been inconvenienced by any conflicting information it may have received 
such that any award of compensation is merited in this instance. 
This is because Im satisfied that its always been the case that N would have had to have 
made monthly repayments towards the BBL at the amount of £833.33 per month, plus 
interest, and also because I feel that this should reasonably have been understood by N 
based on the information given to it by Barclays when N first took out the BBL.All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards N such that any further action is required from Barclays here. I realise 
this wont be the outcome N was wanting, but if follows from this that my final decision here 
will be that wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman