DRN-2461543
The complaint
Mr L complains about errors made by Sainsbury's Bank Plc with his credit card account and 
how it has dealt with his complaint.
What happened
Mr L has a credit card account with Sainsburys which has a promotional interest free period. 
Initially this was not applied, and Mr L had to phone Sainsburys to sort this out. Sainsburys 
refunded the interest applied and credited his account with £25. 
Mr L asked for a direct debit to be set up. Unfortunately, there wasnt enough time to set this 
up before the next payment due date for his account. When Mr L realised his current 
account hadnt been debited, he phoned Sainsburys again and was given incorrect 
information. As a result, Sainsburys credited his account with a further £50, refunded a late 
fee which had been charged and refunded further incorrectly charged interest. It also 
confirmed it would ensure his credit file was unaffected.
As the payment hadnt been taken by direct debit the next payment that had to be made was 
larger than Mr L normally paid in a month which Mr L found a bit of a struggle. Mr L didnt 
feel his complaint was handled well  for example promised calls werent made  it also took 
up a lot of time as he had to make numerous calls ranging in length from 30 minutes to 2 
hours.
Sainsburys acknowledged its errors but felt that the payments it had made were a fair 
response to them. The investigator agreed.
Mr L disagrees. He doesnt think he has been adequately compensated for the time taken to 
resolve the issue and the stress caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration here. Sainsburys has made repeated errors which 
resulted in Mr L having to spend time sorting out. He also had to make a larger payment 
than he was expecting because the April payment wasnt taken. When a consumer is put to 
repeated inconvenience and hassle, we do expect a business to consider compensating 
them. This is what Sainsburys did. It made two separate payments into Mr Ls account. I 
appreciate Mr L doesnt think the payments are enough for the time taken and the stress 
caused to him, but they are in line with what I would expect, and I do think they are fair. I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Sainsburys to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman