DRN-3673661
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by Stephen Foster trading as Foster King Financial
Services (Foster King) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational
pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr J approached Foster King towards the middle of 2017 to discuss his pension and
retirement needs.
In August 2017 Foster King completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js
circumstances and objectives. Foster King also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude
to risk, which it deemed to be 6 on a scale of 1-10.
On 30 August 2017, Foster King advised Mr J to transfer his pension benefits into a personal
pension with a drawdown facility and invest the proceeds in a managed portfolio  deemed
by Foster King to be a cautious to balanced risk profile. The suitability report said the
reasons for this recommendation were to meet Mr Js stated objectives of enabling him to
take the highest possible tax-free cash lump sum on reaching 55 and to enable Mr J to have
flexibility and control of income.
Mr J accepted the recommendation and in December 2017 the transfer was finalised and
Mr J received his tax-free cash sum. Mr J also started to take £900 a month in income from
his pension.
In 2020 Mr J complained, via a representative to Foster King about the suitability of the
transfer advice. In summary he said he relied on the advice he was given, which he now
believes was unsuitable. He said that, had Foster King fully understood his needs and the
implications of transferring his DB benefits, then the transfer wouldnt have been
recommended.
He said Foster King failed to provide him with a clear summary of the advantages and
disadvantaged of the recommendation or a proper analysis of the financial implications of
the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme.
Foster King didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. In summary it said Mr J had already made the
decision to draw his benefits when he reached 55 and had reason to believe that an income
drawdown approach would be better than taking early retirement from his DB scheme. 
It said its suitability report was based on this premise and the advice was clearly limited to 
helping Mr J achieve his stated objective. It said that from looking at Mr Js pension 
statement and the way he accessed his benefits, his DB scheme could not have met his 
needs.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service.
I issued my provisional decision of August 2022 in which I said that I intended to not uphold 
the complaint. I said here:
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it
is unsuitable. So, Foster King should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Firstly and for the sake of completeness, Ive considered the important matter of jurisdiction
and my power to consider this complaint  specifically whether Mr J is an eligible consumer.
I say this because Mr J was a director of his own business and it appears that Mr J sought
advice with the intention of using his pension monies to invest in his business. In this case,
to be an eligible complainant Mr J must meet the definition of a consumer  that is an
individual acting for purposes which are wholly or mainly outside that individuals trade,
business, craft or profession.
Mr J has recently provided us with a series of bank statements from around the time of the
pension transfer as well as copy invoices covering several months after the transfer. Looking
at these it would appear Mr J used the majority of the money for home improvements and a
number of other personal matters. Ill come back to what Mr Js objectives likely were and
what he used the money for later on. But it would only appear that a small amount of around
£2,000 was put into his business. Given this, and because the advice Mr J received was also
based on him drawing some kind of income from his pension  i.e. a personal retirement
planning need  I currently think Mr J was acting for purposes mainly outside of his trade or
profession. So I think Mr J meets the definition of a consumer and so is an eligible
complainant.
Turning now to the merits or substance of Mr Js complaint  ordinarily my starting point
would be to consider the financial viability of the transfer. To do this Id look at the report
generated by the business, which shows the critical yield or investment return required to
match the DB schemes benefits at normal retirement age. This would help me to determine
the likelihood of whether Mr J would be better off financially by transferring. But in this case
Foster King didnt produce this because it says Mr J wanted to take his benefits immediately,
so it wouldnt be relevant. Ive therefore considered the suitability of the recommendation to
transfer out more generally based on Mr Js objectives and circumstances at the time.
It is Mr Js objective and the reason Foster King recommended he transfer his DB scheme
benefits to a personal arrangement which is disputed. Foster King says Mr J wanted to
access his pension early to use the tax-free cash lump sum to invest in his business. Mr J
says that, while he discussed his business with Foster King, he didnt use the money for his
business  he used it for home improvements.
Foster King has provided copies of the advice paperwork from the time as well as copies of
handwritten telephone / file notes it says reflect the discussions it had with Mr J leading up to
the advice.
Looking at this, I can firstly see that the telephone notes describe in reasonable detail what
Foster King understood were Mr Js objectives and the reason he was seeking advice about
his pension. The notes refer to the nature of Mr Js business and that he needed a large
cash injection to develop it.
It says he wanted to use his pension to achieve this because a loan of a similar size wasnt
available and wouldnt be affordable. The note then goes on to provide more detail aboutMr Js plan - it says that he intended to put a lump sum into the business as a directors loan,
which would allow him in due course to withdraw the money as repayment of the loan. It said
this would allow Mr J to draw an income from his pension up to his personal allowance,
which would be tax efficient.
Turning to the fact-find Foster King used to record Mr Js circumstances and objectives,
during what I understand was a face-to-face meeting, I can see there is a notes section
where the adviser has recorded some detail, which I think supports whats written in the
phone / file notes. Here it says that Mr J wanted to control his income rather than take a
fixed reduced pension. It also refers to Mr J wanting to use the monies to develop his
business and that he considered this would give him financial security that way. There is a
signature at the bottom of the notes page, which I think is the advisers.
Looking at the suitability report, while this doesnt spell out Mr Js objectives in the same
level of detail, it does refer to the discussions at the fact-find meeting and Mr Js objective of
wanting flexible access to his benefits to control his drawings given that he ran his own
business.
So it appears to me that the advice was geared towards Mr J wanting to access his tax-free
cash so he could invest the money in his business and have the flexibility to draw income
when needed. While Mr J disputes this is what he told Foster King he wanted to do  and as
I referred to above, it appears he didnt ultimately use the funds for this purpose - the
evidence from the time indicates otherwise. I think Mr J would have seen the fact-find and
the suitability report  so if Mr J didnt recognise what was recorded here and it was at odds
with what hed discussed with Foster King and what his objective was, then I would have
expected him to have queried things at the time.
It's possible that Mr J told Foster King that his objective was to use his pension to invest in
his business rather than saying he wanted to make some home improvements because he
believed this was a stronger objective and Foster King would be more inclined to help him.
Its also possible that Foster King created the objective based on what Mr J said was a
discussion about some of the details of his business  again to base the advice on a
stronger need for Mr J to access his pension benefit early. But Im not persuaded this is
likely. I think there is too much detail in Foster Kings notes about Mr Js business for it to
have made things up  I think the level of detail recorded can only have come from a
thorough discussion about what Mr J wanted to do.
So based on what Ive seen, I think Foster King believed that the advice it was giving was
based on Mr J wanting to invest in his business and to have the flexibility to control his
income levels, and it was reasonable for it to do so. Ive not seen enough to persuade me
otherwise.
So with this in mind, I dont think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was
unsuitable for Mr J. I say this for the following reasons.
Enhanced Tax-fee cash
Mr J said he needed access to the maximum lump sum available to make a cash injection
into his business. I dont think he couldve achieved this by staying in the DB scheme. This is
because based on the advisers calculations, which I dont think look unreasonable, he was
entitled to take around £70,000 as tax-free cash from the DB scheme if he took early
retirement at 55. Mr J didnt have savings or access to other means he couldve used tomeet this need.
I also think it unlikely Mr J couldve borrowed the sum of money he required whether
personally or through his business  particularly within the timescale it appeared Mr J
wanted to achieve things by. But the maximum tax-free cash available to Mr J once he
reached 55 if he transferred to a personal pension was in excess of £130,000. So, I think
transferring out of the DB scheme met this objective.
Flexibility and control of income
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr J required flexibility and control of income.
Because Mr J was running his own business he was able to control what income he took
from his pension and what income he drew from the business. As I referred to earlier on, it
appears Mr J intended to draw income from his pension up to his personal tax allowance
and take the money out of the business when appropriate or necessary in the form of
repayment of the directors loan. And I can see that Mr J did take around £900 a month from
his pension, which broadly equated to an annual income within his personal allowance at the
time.
Im mindful that by accessing his tax-free cash, this likely meant that Mr J wouldnt be able to
take as much income from his pension as he wouldve been entitled to through his DB
scheme at his normal retirement age of 60. But I think this was necessary and wasnt
inappropriate in the circumstances. Mr J didnt have any plans to fully retire, so given the
remaining funds he had invested, I think he would likely be able to draw enough income from
his personal pension to meet his needs, which would later be topped up by his state pension
when he reached state pension age.
Finally Im satisfied that the investment recommendation as part of the overall transfer
advice was in line with Mr Js stated attitude to risk and so was suitable.
So taking everything into account, including the investment I dont think the recommendation
to transfer out of his DB scheme was unsuitable for Mr J in the circumstances.
Notwithstanding this, even if I thought the business had failed to act in Mr Js best interests
and it shouldve recommended that he remain in his DB scheme, I currently think that Mr J
wouldve likely insisted on going ahead and wouldve transferred out in any event. So I dont
think this would change the outcome in Mr Js case.
I say this because in my view the advice paperwork paints a picture of Mr J as someone who
was intent on accessing his DB pension benefits early. For example Foster Kings file notes
and record of the conversations it had with Mr J refer to his eagerness and determination to
take his benefits at 55. And this was reflected in the advice paperwork in which Foster King
described Mr J as determined, adamant and said Given your commitment to taking your
benefits at age 55. It also referred to him wanting to complete the application forms at the
first meeting, before hed received the full advice. Again, if this didnt accurately reflect Mr Js
attitude and intentions at the time, given that as I said earlier I think Mr J would have seen
this paperwork, I wouldve expected him to have queried things when he received and read
the paperwork.
Im mindful too that in looking at copies of the exchange of emails during the course of
Foster Kings interaction with Mr J, I can see one in which Mr J highlighted the importance of
him getting his tax-free cash on the day of his 55th birthday and ...no later. I think this
supports my view that Mr J was driven to transferring his pension to access the tax-free cash
and that he had firm plans for it and when he needed it by.
As I said earlier, I acknowledge that Mr J says that he didnt use his tax-free cash for hisbusiness and used it for home improvements instead. And looking at the bank statements
and other evidence hes provided these appear to support what he says. But this doesnt
change my view of things. Mr Js bank statements show that he began spending the tax-free
cash immediately - the day after he received it. Mr J says that he wouldve waited until he
reached 60 before accessing his DB benefits. But I dont think the evidence from the time
supports this.
Mr J also says there is no evidence he wouldve gone ahead in any event had Foster King
advised him against the transfer  but I disagree. Taking everything into account, and for the
reasons Ive given above I currently think that Mr J was sufficiently motivated to access his
DB scheme benefits early by transferring out to meet his need, such that he wouldve gone
ahead anyway regardless of the advice he received from Foster King.
Summary
Overall I dont think the recommendation to Mr J to transfer out of his DB scheme was
unsuitable based on what I think Foster King reasonably believed were Mr Js objectives at
the time of the advice. But in any event, given the evidence Ive seen I think Mr J was intent
on transferring his pension and accessing his benefits early  so even if Foster King had
recommended he remain in his DB scheme, I think Mr J wouldve likely insisted on going
ahead in any event. 
Both Foster King and Mr J said they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, because neither party has given me anything new to consider, Ive no 
reason to change my mind. So my final decision is that Ive reached the same overall 
conclusion and for the same reasons as my provisional decision, which Ive set out in detail 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022. 
Paul FeatherstoneOmbudsman