DRN-4008803
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander UK Plc didnt provide information requested by Mr C 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr C has dealt with the complaint throughout. He asks 
that the information is provided.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Santander (then Abbey National) in 1989. Mr C says 
he sent a s.77 Consumer Credit Act (CCA) request to Santander by letter in June 2022, 
enclosing a cheque for £1. Mr C says the cheque was cashed. However, Santander told him 
it hadnt received the s.77 CCA request. Mr C made the request again.
Santander said there were delays in responding to Mr Cs CCA request and apologised for 
the inconvenience this caused. It provided information to Mr C in July and August 2022 and 
credited Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage account with £100.
Our investigator said Santander had done enough to put matters right. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said hes entitled under the CCA to ask Santander for a copy of his 
credit agreement (with the terms and conditions) and a statement of account, showing what 
he borrowed, what hes paid back, what hes paid in interest and how much he has left to 
pay. He says Santander hasnt sent this. Mr C says Santander is unable to enforce an 
agreement if it doesnt provide this information.
Mr C raised a complaint to Santander regarding his mortgage statements, which my fellow 
ombudsman is responding to. Mr C has shared concerns about other issues, such as 
possible discrepancies hes found regarding his mortgage account. This wasnt part of the 
complaint brought to us, and so I cant look into it here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must be clear about the complaint that Im looking into here. The complaint Mr C raised 
with Santander in July 2022 and which was brought to us in September 2022 was that 
Santander hadnt responded to Mr Cs s.77 CCA request. 
Mr C made a s.77 CCA request in June 2022. Santander provided information to Mr C in 
July 2022 and August 2022.
Mr C says Santander hasnt provided the information required by s.77 CCA, and it cant 
enforce the credit agreement if it doesnt do so. He says this turns on whether the CCA 
applies to his mortgage contract. We provide an informal dispute resolution service. We take 
relevant law, regulation and good industry practice into account to reach a decision about 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Only a court can decide matters such as 
whether a law has been breached or whether a contract is enforceable. What I can do is 
consider whether Santander treated Mr and Mrs C fairly, and I think it has.
Mr and Mrs C have been sent a copy of their mortgage offer, completion documents and 
acceptance, and the terms and conditions in place when they took out the mortgage. 
Santander sent a letter setting out the amount of capital and interest Mr and Mrs C had paid 
up to the date of the letter. Santander sends annual mortgage statements to Mr and Mrs C 
that set out (amongst other things) the remaining balance, the monthly payments and an 
illustration of the cost of repaying the mortgage. 
Having considered the information Mr C said he expected to receive, I think Santander 
responded fairly and provided this. 
Santander accepts there were delays in it responding when Mr C made his s.77 CCA 
request. This caused Mr C inconvenience. Mr C chased Santander and made a further 
request. I think, for the amount of inconvenience caused, £100 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Santander to take any 
further steps.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman