DRN-3557763
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M are unhappy with the service provided by Financial Administration Services 
Limited (Fidelity) following the transfer of their stocks and shares Individual Savings Account 
(ISA). 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M held an ISA with company L. Mrs M had provided her bank details to 
company L so that income from their investments was paid directly into Mrs Ms account. 
In July 2021 company L transferred its personal investment business (including Mr M and 
Mrs Ms ISA) to Fidelity. 
In early August Fidelity sent Mr M two letters welcoming him to Fidelity. Among other things, 
these set out some of the differences from his old fund provider, and explained how to set up 
an online account.
In November 2021 Mr M was sent a statement by post. Mr M complained to Fidelity about 
the statement not being detailed enough, the performance of the fund in which he was 
invested, and not receiving email verification after transferring from company L (so being 
unable to receive dividend payments). 
Fidelity responded to Mr Ms complaint saying a detailed insight into Mr Ms investment could 
be found by accessing his online account. Fidelity explained it wouldnt comment on fund 
performance as it acts as the fund provider only, and the fund is owned by a third party. 
In respect of Mr Ms complaint about access issues for his online account, Mr M was 
informed:
Prior to 6 December, we did not send you any form of verification regarding your 
account. This suggests that perhaps there was an issue attempting to register 
initially. I am sorry if this caused any frustration. I am pleased to see that on 6 
December you registered for online access. Please note, your email is still not 
verified. Please check your mailbox in order to verify your email.  
Mr M was unhappy with Fidelitys response. Mr M brought his complaint to this service for 
investigation. The investigator found Mr M had been provided with information about how to 
set up his online account. 
During our investigation the investigator contacted Fidelity to find out more about Mr Ms 
online account access issues. They found that when Mr M had tried to set up an online 
account in December 2021, the email address that hed provided was mis-spelled and so 
registration couldnt be successfully completed. After discovering this issue, Mr Ms account 
was re-set and Mr M was able to login successfully on 15 June 2022. Mr M also withdraw his 
cash from his Fidelity account on the same date. 
Mr M remained unhappy with the service provided by Fidelity and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint saying (amongst other things) Simple issue. They were given correct 
bank details from [company L], chose not to use them and kept my dividend payments, 
made no effort to contact me nor respond to complaint made.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Not receiving dividend payments
Mr M says although both his and Mrs Ms investments transferred to Fidelity, it is only Mr M 
that has experienced issues with receiving dividend payments. Mr M says Fidelity couldve 
made dividend payments to Mrs Ms account as was the case when company L was their 
fund provider.  
Its not disputed that Mrs M received payments from company L for both Mr and Mrs Ms 
investments. Fidelity has explained that although company L made payments in this way, 
following the transfer it could not make payments to a third party payee. Fidelity say that the 
reason for this is because it only pays to a bank account in the name of the customer and 
wont pay to a third party. 
I have seen that the welcome pack sent on 2 August 2021 explained From now on, income 
you have asked to be paid to you from your investments will now be paid into Cash within 
your Fidelity account, as we dont have any bank details for you. As soon as you've received 
your Welcome Pack and registered online, you'll be able to log in and add your bank details. 
This instruction clearly explained to Mr M how payments would be made following the 
transfer to Fidelity, and what steps Mr M would need to take in order to receive payment into 
a nominated bank account. Although I can appreciate the frustration and inconvenience 
caused to Mr M because of this process change, Im satisfied Fidelitys decision to make 
payments this way was explained to Mr M following the transfer.
Although Mr M was provided with this information in August 2021, it wasnt until December 
2021 that he attempted to set up an online account with Fidelity. But the registration process 
wasnt completed. Fidelity has provided evidence showing the email address provided by Mr 
M at the time was invalid. Because of this Mr M didnt receive the email link needed to verify 
his account. 
I have seen that when Fidelity responded to Mr Ms complaint in December 2021, Mr M was 
told his email address had not been verified. I understand it wasnt until this services 
involvement that the issue with Mr Ms email address being spelt incorrectly was identified, 
and dealt with. Ive considered whether its reasonable to hold Fidelity responsible for this 
delay. And I dont think it is. 
Mr M was told his email needed to be verified in December 2021. Mr M feels strongly that 
Fidelity shouldve told him that the email address hed provided was incorrect. I can 
appreciate Mr Ms reluctance to contact Fidelity given his previous frustrations which led to 
his complaint. But I also consider that Mr M was correctly informed that verification of his email was outstanding. Im satisfied that it wouldve been clear that further action was 
needed from Mr M before his online account could be set up. 
Mr M did set up his online account in June 2022 and the issues with access have now been 
resolved. I appreciate it has been a difficult journey for Mr M in getting to this point. Although 
I sympathise with the difficulties experienced by Mr M because of the problems in accessing 
his online account, I cant say Fidelity is responsible for this. Im satisfied the service 
provided by Fidelity has been reasonable and in line with what wed expect. So I wont be 
asking Fidelity to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
The statements sent by post have not been detailed enough
Mr M says he wasnt provided with a detailed insight into his investments after the transfer to 
Fidelity. Im satisfied the postal statement issued to Mr M provided an overview of his 
investments performance, with the explanation that you can see all your account 
transactions, along with supporting information, by logging in at fidelity.co.uk. 
The information provided in the statement gave an overview of Mr Ms transaction history for 
the quarter. For more detailed insight Mr M was referred to his online account. I think this 
was reasonable. So I wont be asking Fidelity to take any further action in respect of this 
complaint. 
Fund performance 
Mr M says his fund lost substantial value on a daily basis. Fidelity acts as the fund provider 
only, and the fund is owned by a third party. As fund performance isnt something Fidelity is 
responsible for, this isnt a complaint I can look at. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman