DRN-3944398
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the acts of Mr K. She says she believed she was investing money 
through him (on his advice) but its now clear Mr K kept the money himself and didnt invest 
it. She says Quilter Financial Limited (Quilter) is responsible because Mr K was with a 
business that was an appointed representative of Quilter at the relevant time.
What happened
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register suggests that Mr K worked for a business 
between 6 January 2010 and 31 December 2012. That business seems to have consistently 
used the trading name of CFC Financial Services (CFC) when dealing with Mrs K. This is 
therefore the name Ive used throughout this decision. The FCA register shows CFC has 
been an appointed representative of Quilter since 5 October 2010. Quilters previous name 
was Caerus Financial Limited so references to Caerus in this decision should be read as 
Quilter.
The investigator queried the dates on the FCA register as Mr K seemed to still be holding 
himself out as CFC after 31 December 2012. Quilter confirmed that the dates on the FCA 
register are incorrect and said:
To confirm, [Mr K] was an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Limited 
between 20 September 2010 and 6 July 2015.
The dates Quilter has provided  rather than the incorrect dates on the FCA register  are 
therefore the dates Ive used for the purpose of this decision.
Mr K is related to Mrs K. She says hed previously set up bonds for another family member 
and had invested money for her in 2009 for a five-year term that had performed well. So, she 
decided to get further formal advice from him in 2014 when money from her previous 
investment was available to reinvest. She says they had a meeting at her home where they 
went through an attitude to risk questionnaire and calculator. And she says Mr K then 
recommended that she invest £20,000 in shares in a property company. 
Mr K sent a letter to Mrs K on CFC headed paper on 26 June 2014. This read:
I can confirm receipt of the £20,000 invested into my client account.
This is a pooled investment so your funds will be invested along with other clients 
pension funds by the end of the month.
Statements relating to the performance of this investment will be sent to me and I will 
then be updating the scheme members on an annual basis.
I enclose a copy of the investment prospectus and the signed application form for 
your records.
An application form for £20,000 of shares was also dated 26 June 2014. And bank 
statements for Mr K show £20,000 being received on 27 June 2014 and then paid out the 
next day  on 28 June 2014.
Ive also been provided with a letter from Project Capital Maximiser SPV LTD dated 
2 July 2014 which read:
We confirm receipt of £20,000.00 (Twenty Thousand Pounds) from DNK Wealth 
Management [Mr Ks business] for the investment into the Custodian Capital REIT 
UK Property Investment Company for his client [Mrs K].
We have arranged for this sum to be placed for investment along with the other 
pension scheme members who are entering the same investment product.
It now seems that Mrs Ks £20,000 was never invested by Mr K and was in fact 
misappropriated by him. 
Mrs K complained to Quilter. Quilter issued a final response letter saying it wasnt 
responsible. In summary, it said:
The police investigation said Mr K was solely responsible for the fraud and didnt 
mention Quilter at any time.
Mr K acted outside its authority and the permissions he held through it. His actions 
were out of its control.
An investigator was satisfied we could consider the complaint and that it should be upheld. 
In summary, he said:
He was satisfied the complaint had been made within the time limits.
He was satisfied thered been a regulated activity  advice had been given on a 
specified investment.
Quilters omission from the police report isnt determinative. It was responsible 
because Mr K was most likely acting as CFC when he gave the advice, and he was 
authorised by it to give advice on investments in shares. 
If everything had happened as it should have, Mrs K would have invested and so 
compensation should be paid in line with the most suitable benchmark. 
Quilter hasnt said whether itd be prepared to pay compensation in line with the 
investigators view. But given the length of time since the view, the issue has been passed to 
me for a decision. After considering Mrs Ks circumstances and attitude to risk in 2014, I felt 
a different benchmark was more appropriate to calculate compensation. The investigator 
therefore shared this with both parties and invited comments, but none were received.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is in the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction.Was the complaint made too late?
This service cant look at all complaints. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in 
Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the FCAs Handbook of Rules and Guidance.
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limitswas as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Its not clear whether Quilter has objected to us considering the complaint on the basis it was 
made outside the time limits, so Ive addressed this for completeness. However, the 
complaint was referred to Quilter on 16 December 2019. And it seems the advice 
complained about was given in or shortly before June 2014 when Mrs K transferred the 
money. This means the complaint was made within six years of the events complained about 
so doesnt fall outside the time limits.
Responsibility
I agree with the investigator that the fact Quilter wasnt named in the police reports and isnt 
criminally liable isnt determinative and that it may still be responsible for Mr Ks actions.
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). CFC (and therefore Mr K) wasnt directly 
authorised. Instead, it was an appointed representative of Quilter. Quilter is an authorised 
firm. Its authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities including advising 
on investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore consider complaints 
about Quilter. And this includes some complaints about its appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Quilter was authorised to do. The 
starting point for deciding whether Quilter is responsible for the actions of Mr K here is to 
consider the terms of the contract between Quilter and CFC.
But the case law also indicates that theres a difference between acts and omissions in 
breach of the principal's requirements as to "what" activity the appointed representative can 
carry on and acts and omissions which breach "how" the appointed representative may carry 
on permitted activities. The former kind of breach takes the appointed representative's 
conduct out of the principals ambit of responsibility, but the latter doesn't, being regarded 
instead as a matter "inter se" the principal and the appointed representative.
To decide whether Quilter is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mrs K has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Mrs K has complained about?
Mrs K complains Mr K advised her to invest money through him into shares in a property 
company but its now clear he kept the money himself. 
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and (a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And 
agreeing to advise on investments and agreeing to arrange deals in investments is a 
regulated activity under Article 64 RAO.
To satisfy the definition of the activity under Article 53 RAO there must be advice and, as the 
investigator explained, the advice must:
Be to a person in their capacity as an investor or potential investor.
Relate to an investment thats a security or relevant investment.
Relate to the merits of buying, selling etc the investment.
Relate to a particular investment.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied its most likely Mr K advised Mrs K to invest 
£20,000 into shares in a property company in June 2014. Mrs K has been consistent and 
plausible on this point throughout, and it seems unlikely that shed have made the 
investment without receiving any advice. I also note that documentation from the time, in 
particular the application form for the shares, referred to Mr K as her adviser. Its also clear 
to me from the documentation that Mr K agreed to arrange that investment. Im satisfied the 
shares were a specified investment. So, these acts therefore amounted to regulated 
activities.
Im satisfied that if an adviser advises a client to invest in a specified investment, theres 
regulated investment advice even if the adviser then intercepts the payment and steals the 
money. This is because, as the investigator explained, although buying an investment 
naturally follows investment advice, the actual purchase isnt part of the definition of the 
regulated activity of advising on investments. The subsequent arranging of the deal is a 
separate regulated activity under Article 25 RAO  even if the two activities normally run one 
into the other without much thought being given to that process.
Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
Which business was Mr K acting for?
To answer whether Quilter accepted responsibility for the acts complained of, the first issue I 
need to satisfy myself about is whether Mr K was acting for Quilter when carrying out any of 
the acts.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied he was. I say this because:
An Agreement for the Provision of Investment Services to Retail Clients document 
was on Caerus (now Quilter) headed paper and Mr K of CFC was filled in as the 
adviser.The application form for the shares said that Mr K was the adviser and gave CFCs 
details, including its address and FCA number.
The 26 June 2014 letter from Mr K confirming receipt of the £20,000 was on CFC 
headed paper.
When Mr K emailed Mrs K from his personal account on 2 June 2015 with 
documentation for the fictional investment, he added a CFC footer to the bottom of 
the email.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr K held himself out as acting in his personal 
capacity or representing any other businesses for these events.
Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Quilter accepted responsibility for the acts 
complained about under the agreement it had with CFC.
The agreement with CFC
In response to questions from the investigator, Quilter said:
To confirm, Quilter did not allow [Mr K] to provide advice and/or arrange investments 
in shares.
Please find attached a copy of the Provider and Product Panel in place at the time 
which shows what he was able to provide advice on.
This provider and product panel list was headed:
CAERUS Capital Group  Provider and Product Panel
This document should be read in conjunction with your Client Agreement
And shares werent included on the list. However, the appointed representative agreement 
between CFC and Quilter that Quilter provided didnt refer to this provider and product panel 
list. Instead, it said:
The Firm hereby appoints the Representative as its appointed representative, subject 
to the terms of this Agreement. The Firm authorises the Representative to conduct 
the Relevant Activities.
Relevant Activities was defined as:
the activities regulated under FSMA set out in Schedule 1 which the Representative 
will be carrying out under this Agreement.
And Schedule 1 set out that relevant activities included, in relation to life policies, units and 
shares:
Making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments (article 25(2) 
RAO)
Advising on investments (article 53 RAO)
Agreeing to carry out the regulated activities set outaboveThe investigator therefore concluded that advising on shares and agreeing to make 
arrangements for transactions in shares were allowed under the agreement. Quilter hasnt 
provided any further comments or evidence on that point in response to that view and I 
agree with the investigators interpretation of the agreement.
Like the investigator, I accept that it does seem Mr K breached some terms of the 
agreement, for example, holding client money. However, also like the investigator, Im 
satisfied these breaches were of the type that, according to the case law, are breaches of 
how CFC undertook authorised activities, not a breach of a provision of what activities it 
could undertake at all.
So, Im satisfied that Quilter did accept responsibility for Mr K advising Mrs K to invest 
£20,000 in shares in a property company and agreeing to make arrangements for that 
investment. Its therefore responsible under Section 39 FSMA for the acts being complained 
about. 
My decision  jurisdiction
My decision is that the Financial Ombudsman Service is able to consider Mrs Ks complaint 
about Mr K.
What Ive decided  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out above my view on jurisdiction. Ive made it clear how Ive approached the issue 
and that I havent based any part of my view on a consideration of whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
As its my view that I have jurisdiction and as both parties have been given the opportunity to 
comment on both jurisdiction and merits and, given the nature of our role to resolve 
complaints which are within our jurisdiction speedily and with minimal formality, I now set out 
my conclusions on the merits of Mrs Ks complaint also. And I note that the investigator told 
Quilter on several occasions that this might be the next step and to make sure it made any 
arguments it had in relation to merits and compensation.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied Mr K advised Mrs K to invest £20,000 into shares in a 
property company but then failed to arrange that investment. He failed to do so because he 
was acting dishonestly. Instead, he paid Mrs Ks money into his account and used it for his 
own purposes. 
Mr Ks conduct in not arranging the recommended investment as hed agreed to do but 
instead stealing the money caused Mrs K to lose money. She also lost the investment return 
she could have earned on the money. 
Is it fair and reasonable that Quilter compensate Mrs K?
Clearly Quilter didnt actually authorise Mr K to steal Mrs Ks money. And it didnt receive it. 
So, the question is whether its fair to require Quilter to compensate Mrs K for the losses?
Ive found that Quilter is responsible for Mr Ks conduct because I consider the law would 
impose liability on Quilter for his actions. So, it isnt necessarily unfair to require Quilter to 
pay compensation for the losses caused by Mr Ks dishonesty. I dont have to follow the law 
but, bearing in mind the legal position, I do think it fair and reasonable to take as my starting point that I should ask Quilter to compensate Mrs K for the effect of Mr Ks actions unless 
theres a good reason why it shouldnt do so.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs K acted unreasonably in her belief that Mr K 
was conducting genuine Quilter business and was acting in her interests. She wasnt 
careless. She was the innocent victim of a dishonest financial adviser.
In my view its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to require Quilter to compensate 
Mrs K.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs K 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mrs K would have invested the £20,000 that was misappropriated. Its 
not possible to say precisely what she would have invested in. But Im satisfied that what I 
have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs K's circumstances and objectives at the 
time.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mrs K fairly, Quilter must:
Compare Mrs K's fictional investment with the performance of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. 
Add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mrs K £300 for the distress and worry caused to her by the total loss of the 
£20,000 she thought she was investing.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Im satisfied none of Mrs Ks money has been returned to her. However, Quilter may require 
that she provides an undertaking to pay it any repayments she may receive in the future. 
Quilter will need to meet any cost in drawing up the undertaking.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Custodian 
Capital REIT 
UK Property 
InvestmentFraudulent For half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate the 
money was 
paid  26 
June 2014Date of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year on the loss 
from the date of 
my final decision 
to the date of 
settlement if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving Mrs K's 
acceptanceActual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. In this case this will 
be £0.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Quilter should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs K wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mrs K's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs K into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs K would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs K could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and require Quilter Financial Limited to pay Mrs K fair 
compensation as set out above.
Quilter Financial Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs K in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman