DRN-4082123
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the level of information Covea Insurance plc is requiring from 
him to assess a claim he made for unemployment on a mortgage payment protection 
insurance policy.
What happened
As a director of a company that was unable to operate during the Covid pandemic, Mr P first 
made a claim for unemployment beginning in March 2020. Covea declined the claim on the 
basis of a clause in the policy that required a self-employed person to have permanently 
ceased trading.
In February 2022 Covea wrote to Mr P to explain that it had changed its approach to claims 
from self-employed policyholders and that it was now disregarding the need to permanently 
cease trading. It offered to reconsider Mr Ps claim if he provided the necessary supporting 
information.
Covea then sought to clarify some of the information it received, in particular whether Mr P 
had been working immediately prior to the claim period. It therefore required Mr P to meet 
with a claims assessor. However, Mr P has so far not agreed to an interview.
Our adjudicator thought that Covea had acted reasonably. Mr P disagrees with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the circumstances of this case, Covea has withdrawn the need for Mr Ps company to 
have permanently ceased trading as it accepted that was unfair in the context of the 
pandemic. However, the claim is still subject to the remaining policy terms.
The policy defines work as: any paid work of at least 16 hours a week. 
The policy also explains the type of evidence that would need to be provided to validate a 
claim. For self-employed people it is: evidence of your payment of the appropriate class 2 
national insurance contributions, covering the period immediately before the date from which 
your claim starts, or evidence of the income from your business covering the six month 
period before the date from which your self-employment ended.
The business bank statements that Mr P has provided for 2019 dont show the business 
generating an income. So, theres a question mark over whether Mr P was working, as 
defined under the policy, prior to the claim period.
The purpose of the policy is to provide cover for mortgage repayments in the event that a 
policyholder becomes unemployed and loses their income. It therefore stands to reason that 
someone has to be working for an income, and then lose their job, to make a claim.
From Mr Ps point of view, he feels it is obvious that the pandemic meant he couldnt work 
and he has therefore been caused financial hardship. He feels that Covea is requesting 
large amounts of unnecessary information to deter people from making claims and to decline 
otherwise legitimate claims.
I appreciate Mr Ps view and understand that the pandemic must have been a very difficult 
time for him and his business. However, Covea are entitled to satisfy itself that Mr Ps claim 
meets the conditions as set out in the terms and conditions.
Given the information Covea has received so far, I consider it reasonable that it is seeking to 
clarify matters further. Requiring Mr P to meet with a claims assessor is reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances. It follows that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
The current situation is that Covea has not declined the claim and will continue to assess it 
further subject to Mr P agreeing to be interviewed. Hopefully Mr P will feel able to take the 
opportunity to clarify his situation immediately prior to the claim period. If not, then it would 
be reasonable for Covea to close the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman