The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society lifted a block on a suspicious transaction at 
his request, which turned out to be fraudulent.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr L was suing his laptop when it froze and a message appeared on the 
screen, saying that his iPad would only work again if Mr L phoned a given telephone 
number. He called the number and the person who answered claimed to work at Apple. He 
demanded payment of about £500 (in a foreign currency) to restore the iPad to working 
condition. Mr L says he considered this to be blackmail, but he believed he was speaking to 
Apple, so he made the payment, using his Nationwide credit card. Nationwides systems 
automatically blocked the payment. So Mr L phoned Nationwide and asked for the block to 
be lifted. This was done, and the payment went through. A second block was then placed on 
his account. The next day, Mr L phoned the real Apple, who told him that he had been a 
victim of a scam. He called Nationwide back, and Nationwide promptly refunded all of his 
money.
Mr L initially complained to Nationwide that the two blocks should not have been imposed, 
but he later complained that the first block should not have been lifted at his request, and 
that the call handler should have had sufficient wit and foresight to realise that the demand 
for payment was fraudulent. He asked for compensation. Nationwide did not uphold his 
complaint, but as a gesture of good will it offered him £25  not for lifting the block, but only 
because the second block had inconvenienced him.
Mr L was not satisfied, and he brought this complaint to our Service. He asked for £250 
compensation for stress. Our investigator did not agree to that. He said that Nationwide had 
done nothing wrong, and that it had speedily refunded Mr Ls money, so Mr L was not left out 
of pocket. Any stress had been caused by the fraudster, not by Nationwide.
Mr L asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He maintained that the call handler should 
not have allowed the payment to go through. He made detailed criticisms of how the call was 
handled, by reference to the call recording.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
DRN-1188743reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the call recording. I agree with Mr Ls criticisms of how the call handler 
dealt with the call. It should have been clear to him that Mr L was being scammed, and I 
agree that the call handler should have dealt with it more robustly than he did. I have noted 
Nationwides explanation that its staff do not tell customers that a company may be 
committing a scam in case they mistakenly slander a legitimate company, but I think that is 
unpersuasive. In the call, Mr L said he only knew he had been speaking to Apple because 
the person who had answered his call had told him they were Apple and he just took their 
word for it. Im quite sure that the real Apple doesnt blackmail its customers, and I expect 
Nationwides call handler knew that too. I think it would have been reasonable, and not 
slanderous, if the call handler had declined to unblock the payment, and told Mr L to contact 
Nationwides fraud department in the morning (as this call was out of normal office hours).
Nevertheless, despite these criticisms, I do not uphold this complaint, because Mr Ls money 
was immediately refunded when he called Nationwide back to report that he had been 
scammed. So Mr L has not lost anything, and I think that the blame for any stress or anxiety 
he experienced belongs to the fraudster, rather than the building society. In coming to that 
conclusion, I have taken into account that Mr L was deprived of his money for only a short 
time, that it was refunded quickly, and that he ended the original phone call with Nationwide 
by mentioning his right to recourse under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, so he 
knew he had some protection if anything went wrong.
My concluding remarks are not intended to be a criticism of Mr L, but rather a friendly 
warning for future reference: if anything like this happens again, he should not assume that 
the person he is talking to is who they say they are, or that a legitimate company would 
extort money from its customers by threatening them. Instead, he should wait until the 
building societys fraud department is open and then speak to them before making a 
payment. There is more information about scams on Nationwides website at 
https://www.nationwide.co.uk/support/security-centre/fraud-awareness/fraud-scams# and 
our own website at https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/data-insight/insight/avoiding-
fraud-and-scams
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman