DRN-4358594
The complaint
Miss W complains that Vitality Health Limited has turned down a claim she made on a group 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Miss W is insured under her employers group medical insurance policy. Cover under the 
policy began in June 2022 and the policy was underwritten on moratorium terms. This meant 
that Vitality wouldnt pay claims for any medical conditions which had existed in the five 
years before the policy began, except in defined circumstances.
In July 2022, Miss W called Vitality to make a claim on the policy. She said shed had a 
scan, which had identified ovarian cysts and possible endometriosis. Shed been referred to 
a gynaecologist. During the call, Miss W told Vitalitys call handler that her usual menstrual 
symptoms had worsened in October 2021 and had deteriorated further in April 2022. She 
explained that shed been prescribed strong pain relief medication.
Vitality turned down Miss Ws claim. Miss W had indicated both that her symptoms had 
worsened and that shed been prescribed pain medication prior to the start date of the policy. 
So it concluded that her condition was pre-existing and therefore fell within the scope of the 
moratorium clause.
Miss W was unhappy with Vitalitys decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
She said she hadnt formally been diagnosed with endometriosis until August 2022. So she 
didnt think it had been fair for Vitality to decline her claim.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. He said that the policy 
didnt require a diagnosis to have been made in order for the moratorium clause to apply. 
And he felt that given Miss Ws timeline of her symptoms, it had been fair for Vitality to 
conclude that the claim wasnt covered. 
Miss W disagreed. She said shed also been diagnosed with a further condition. So she 
didnt think there was any way of attributing the pain shed experienced to a pre-existing 
medical condition.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss W, I dont think it was unfair for 
Vitality to turn down her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the insurance policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Vitality 
treated Miss W fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as they form the basis of the contract 
between Miss Ws employer and Vitality. The policy was accepted on moratorium terms. So 
Ive looked carefully at what Vitality means by the moratorium clause. The policy says:
We don't pay claims for the treatment of any medical condition or related condition which, in 
the five years before your cover started:
 you have received medical treatment for, or
 had symptoms of, or
 asked advice on, or
 to the best of your knowledge and belief, were aware existed.
This is called a 'pre-existing' medical condition.
However, subject to the plan terms and conditions, a pre-existing medical condition can 
become eligible for cover providing you have not:
 consulted anyone (e g. a GP, dental practitioner, optician or therapist, or anyone 
acting in such a capacity) for medical treatment or advice (including check-ups), or 
 taken medication (including prescription or over-the-counter drugs, medicines, or 
injections) 
for that pre-existing medical condition or any related condition for two continuous years after 
your cover start date. (My emphasis added).
I think the policy terms make it clear that Vitality wont pay for claims for any medical 
condition if an insured member had had symptoms of it; asked for advice about it, had 
received treatment for it; or was aware it existed in the five years before the policy began, 
except in the specific circumstances outlined above. I also think the policy terms make it 
sufficiently clear that a specific medical condition doesnt need to have been formally 
diagnosed in order for the moratorium clause to apply. Vitality considers that Miss Ws claim 
was excluded by the moratorium clause, so Ive considered whether I think this was a fair 
conclusion for Vitality to draw.
Ive listened carefully to the call between Vitality and Miss W. During the call, Miss W 
explained her symptoms and the suspected diagnosis. She explained that her usual 
menstrual pain had worsened in October 2021 and deteriorated more severely in April 2022. 
She also told the call handler that shed been prescribed pain relief medication. This policy 
didnt start until June 2022, around eight months after Miss Ws symptoms had worsened 
and two months after theyd worsened even further. So I dont think it was unfair for Vitality 
to conclude that Miss W had symptoms of the condition she was claiming for and had been 
prescribed treatment for it in the five years before the policy started. As such, I think it was 
reasonable for Vitality to consider that Miss Ws claim was excluded by the moratorium 
clause.
Miss W strongly feels that as her condition hadnt been diagnosed at the point of claim and 
as shes since been diagnosed with another condition which can cause pain, it isnt fair for 
Vitality to decline her claim. However, whilst I sympathise with Miss Ws position, as I 
appreciate shes very worried about the impact her conditions may have on her in the future, I dont think I could fairly uphold her complaint on these grounds. As Ive explained, the 
policy terms dont require a diagnosis before the moratorium clause applies. And the 
evidence Miss W gave Vitality indicates that symptoms of either condition did exist before 
the policy began and that she was taking prescription pain relief for those symptoms. 
Overall then, I dont think Vitality acted unfairly or unreasonably when it turned down Miss 
Ws claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman