DRN-1294734
The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked a payment he attempted using his 
credit card. Hes also unhappy with how he was notified his payment had been restricted.
What happened
On 9 October 2019 Mr F attempted to use his credit card in order to purchase a car. He 
intended to make a payment of around £3500 but his payment was declined as it had been 
blocked by Nationwide. Mr F was able to use his Nationwide debit card, together with cards 
from other banks, to complete his transaction. But he wasnt happy he couldnt use his credit 
card as he had the credit facility to be able to do so.
Nationwide said it had blocked Mr Fs credit card payment for fraud prevention reasons. It 
said it had attempted to contact him within two hours of his payment being blocked to notify 
him that it hadnt been able to process his payment. However, its efforts to reach Mr F were 
unsuccessful. It also said it sent a letter to him by second class post within 48 hours of the 
block being placed to confirm what had happened.
Mr F wasnt happy that he wasnt able to use his credit card to purchase his car. He wanted 
to know the specific reason why his payment had been blocked and he wasnt satisfied with 
the information he was given about this when he contacted Nationwide over the telephone. 
So, he complained to Nationwide about what happened. After it investigated it told Mr F his 
payment had triggered a fraud alert. It said it was restricted in providing information over and 
above that already provided due to commercial sensitivity. And it said it had notified him 
about the payment block as promptly as it could and in line with its policy. Overall, it didnt 
think it had done anything wrong and it didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Being dissatisfied with Nationwides response Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it but didnt think Nationwide had made an error. They thought it had 
dealt with Mr Fs complaint fairly. But Mr F didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint  either about the problems with his payment 
of the way in which Nationwide communicated with him afterwards. And, having carefully 
considered everything Mr F and Nationwide have said here, Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made an error in blocking his payment either. Im also 
satisfied it hasnt treated him unfairly in communicating with him about what happened. Ill 
explain why.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially 
fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its 
customers. To do so a bank may subject payments to a fraud check.I understand that when Nationwide blocked Mr Fs payment it was an inconvenient and 
frustrating experience  especially given that this transaction was genuine. But, this transfer 
was for a reasonably large amount and I can understand why Nationwide had cause to be 
vigilant here. Overall, I think it had reason to suspect this transaction wasnt authentic and it 
couldnt have known whether it was or wasnt until it could confirm the circumstances of this 
payment with Mr F. This was just as much for Mr Fs protection as it was for Nationwides.
Mr F wants Nationwide to tell him why his payment attracted a fraud check. I see that 
Nationwide has declined to share this as thats commercially sensitive information. I can 
understand that Mr F feels this is unfair. But Nationwide is under no obligation to tell Mr F its 
reasons, as much as he wants to know. Our service cant tell it to share this information with 
him and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask Nationwide to elaborate any further.
What I can tell Mr F though is that, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide acted in line with the terms and conditions of his account in restricting his use of 
his credit card. The action it took was part of its strategy to reduce fraud. And I cant fairly 
criticise any bank for having processes in place to check the authenticity of payments.  
Part of Mr Fs complaint concerned the fact that Nationwide didnt notify him that his 
payment had been blocked immediately. So, in considering whether the time it took 
Nationwide to communicate this was fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the measures it 
took here and whether it acted in line with any policies it has in place. 
Nationwide restricted Mr Fs credit card at 10:39 and, by 12:09, it had attempted to reach 
him on all telephone numbers it had recorded for him. While its clear Mr F would have liked 
to have been told sooner that his payment had been blocked I dont think Nationwides 
response time here was unreasonable. Im satisfied it responded as promptly as it could.
Nationwide said its policy is to attempt to make contact twice within 48 hours. And I can see 
that in addition to trying to telephone Mr F Nationwide also sent a letter confirming the 
payment had been blocked. This letter was sent via second class mail within 48 hours of the 
block being placed. 
I understand that Mr F has raised some concerns about the time it took for this letter to reach 
him. However, any delays in receiving correspondence are beyond the control of Nationwide 
and not something I can, therefore, hold it responsible for. 
Mr F told Nationwide and our service that he would have preferred to receive a secure 
message instead of a letter. However, Nationwide said it isnt able to send a secure 
message as the first communication to a customer unless its regarding a complaint, which 
didnt apply here. So, it can only communicate by telephone or post.
I appreciate that Mr F is unhappy with Nationwides policy on communicating with 
customers after it has blocked a payment. However, as our investigator explained 
Nationwide is entitled to determine its own policy in this regard. So, we cant comment on 
whether a business policy is right or tell it that its policy should be changed. But in the 
individual circumstances here, Im satisfied Nationwide followed its own policy on how 
it deals with blocked payments and how it communicates with customers afterwards. So, I 
cant fairly conclude it has made an error.
Finally, I can see that Mr F raised concerns with Nationwide and our service that it may 
subject future payments he makes to a fraud check. I can understand his worries here. But 
Nationwides duty to safeguard its customers accounts and be vigilant against fraud means 
it cant offer a guarantee that this wont happen again should circumstances require it.I understand Mr F feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I realise 
he will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve 
his dispute with Nationwide informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr F any 
further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman