DRN-3372146
The complaint
Ms A has complained about the actions of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) in 
2019 and 2020. Ms A was attempting to take her pension before the age of 55 because she 
was in poor health. She says Aviva has unfairly prevented her from doing so.
What happened
In October 2019, Ms A contacted Aviva to take her pension on ill health grounds. As she was 
under 55 at the time, she wouldnt otherwise have been able to access her pension. During a 
subsequent telephone call with Aviva, in November 2019, Ms A said her life expectancy was 
less than 12 months which meant she wanted to take her pension on serious ill health 
grounds. Taking her pension on serious ill health grounds (rather than ill health grounds) 
would have allowed Ms A to take her entire pension tax-free but, under HMRC requirements, 
she would have needed to provide a doctors confirmation that she had less than 12 months 
to live. Aviva says it never received this confirmation even though it says it made it clear to 
Ms A that it needed this to proceed. 
Aviva told Ms A she could potentially take ill health retirement because she had sent in a 
declaration of ill health which showed she could no longer continue in her chosen occupation 
 one of the requirements for an ill health claim. This would have allowed Ms A to receive 
her pension before the age of 55, although tax deductions would have applied. Aviva said 
certain other conditions had to be fulfilled in order to take her pension on ill health grounds, 
including the requirement to contact its Retirement Centre about making such a claim  
which it says Ms A never did. So an impasse was reached.
Ms A complained to Aviva. Aviva says that Ms A never fulfilled its requirements for serious ill 
health retirement because a certificate of serious ill health was never completed by a doctor. 
And it says Ms A hasnt fulfilled the requirements for ill health retirement either because she 
has never contacted its Retirement Centre to talk through such a claim. However, Aviva did 
apologise because it hadnt originally asked Ms A for a copy of one of her bank statements, 
which was another of its requirements. It offered Ms A £100 compensation for this.
Ms A referred her complaint to us. In brief, our investigator found that Ms A hadnt fulfilled 
Avivas requirements for retirement on serious ill health grounds or ill health grounds. He 
thought Aviva had explained its requirements clearly enough. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Ms A asked for an ombudsman to decide on her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is to note that taking benefits on the grounds of ill health and serious ill 
health are different. Both allow a pension to be taken before the age of 55, but the former is 
taxed whilst the latter isnt. Taking a pension on the grounds of serious ill health requires 
someone to have less than 12 months to live whereas taking benefits on the grounds of ill 
health typically requires someone to be physically unable to continue in their profession. 
Avivas requirements and processes for dealing with the two types of claim are, 
understandably, different.
When Ms A spoke to Aviva on 21 November 2019 about taking her pension, the call handler 
appeared to be under the impression that Ms A was looking to do so on the grounds of ill 
health. This would be in keeping with Avivas contact notes which show that it was treating 
this as an ill health claim. The call handler told Ms A that her pension would be taxed. Ms A 
queried this, saying she thought her pension could be taken entirely free of tax. The call 
handler told Ms A that this could only be done in cases of serious ill health. She asked Ms A 
if she had less than 12 months to live. Ms A replied yes. 
From that point on, Aviva was under the impression that this was a serious ill health claim. 
As such, it needed (amongst other things) its certificate of serious ill health to be completed 
by a suitability qualified medical professional. Aviva sent Ms A a blank certificate for 
completion and explained its requirements. It told Ms A its requirements on numerous 
occasions thereafter (for instance, in letters and emails dated 25 November 2019, 
27 November 2019, 6 December 2019, 13 December 2019, 28 January 2020, 12 February 
2020 and 5 May 2020). I havent seen any evidence that the certificate was ever completed 
and returned. So, on this issue, Im satisfied Aviva hasnt done anything wrong. Its 
requirements were fair and reasonable. It explained its requirements to Ms A many times. 
Ms A didnt comply with those requirements.
Ms A did return a Declaration of ill health certificate, which said she was unable to continue 
to work in her chosen profession. This was returned to Aviva along with a serious ill health 
claim form. In other words, Ms A returned conflicting paperwork  something which 
suggested an ill heath claim and something which suggested a serious ill health claim. This 
may have been due to the two different claims Ms A had made and the paperwork that was 
sent out after each  the ill health claim in the run-up to Ms A calling Aviva on 21 November, 
and the serious ill health claim that followed that call. 
Even so, Aviva noted the problem and wrote to Ms A on 13 December asking for clarity on 
the exact nature of her claim. It said it couldnt proceed with the serious ill health claim 
(which, understandably, it thought it was dealing with at that point) without a completed 
certificate of serious ill health. It also said it could progress an ill health claim if thats what 
Ms A wanted. Clarity wasnt provided so Aviva wrote to Ms A on 28 January saying it still 
couldnt progress a serious ill health claim without the certificate of serious ill health and that 
Ms A would need to contact its Retirement Centre to make an ill health claim. It gave Ms A 
the number to phone. Aviva also told Ms A about its requirements in relation to ill health 
claims thereafter (for instance on 12 February 2020 and 11 May 2020). I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence that Ms A took the steps Aviva asked of her in the period under review. 
Therefore, whilst an impasse was reached, I dont consider this to have been of Avivas 
doing. Im not upholding Ms As complaint. 
Aviva offered Ms A £100 because it delayed telling her that it required a copy of her bank 
statement to allow it to verify the account her pension was going to be paid into. I consider 
this to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances given this information didnt ultimately 
delay payment for the reasons given above. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman