DRN-4238229
The complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a 
conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2022, Mr M acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr M was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £248.71. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £14,673,89.
In August 2022, Mr M contacted Moneybarn to say he could no longer afford the repayments 
he was required to make in order to keep the car. The agreement was terminated in 
May 2023.
Mr M says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included verifying his income and running credit 
checks. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr M didnt agree and suggested that Moneybarn knowingly accepted him when it knew the 
agreement would be unaffordable. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn asked Mr M to confirm hed been discharged from an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA) hed previously and Ive seen it was necessary to obtain proof of this 
before he was granted the finance. I dont think it was unreasonable for Moneybarn to insist 
on this in order to be assured that Mr M would be able to pay what was a new and significant 
credit commitment over long period. Mr M was discharged from the IVA in August 2021. But 
Ive also seen that Mr M had a default registered against him around 10 months before the 
agreement in relation to a mobile phone account. Ive also seen that Moneybarn also used 
statistical data, alongside the credit checks, as a way of estimating Mr Ms non-discretionary 
spending. In these circumstances, I think on balance it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for Moneybarn to have taken further steps so as to be assured that Mr M 
would have been able to sustainably repay the borrowing. Moneybarn could have done this 
by gathering more detail about Mr Ms financial circumstances before deciding to agree the 
lending, such as verifying his actual expenditure rather than relying on an estimate based  
on statistical data. 
I cant be certain what Mr M would have told Moneybarn had it asked about his regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ms bank 
statements to get an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed the bank statements Mr M provided us with from the months before he made  
the application. I broadly agree that Mr M had a monthly income that averaged out at around 
£1,600 per month. And Ive noted that Mr M was living at home at the time and, whilst he 
was making contributions to his parents towards living costs, his household expenses were 
lower than they would have been. Ive also seen that Mr M was occasionally receiving 
payments from his family when his bank balance was depleted. But Ive kept in mind that his 
typical monthly outgoings were around £750. Taking these figures into account, I agree it 
appears to show the agreement was affordable to Mr M. Im therefore not persuaded that 
Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Mr M has also told us about difficulties he experienced when he changed his mind about the 
car hed chosen after his finance had been approved. When he contacted them, Moneybarn 
advised he would need to speak to the car dealership and/or the broker he had been using. I 
see that Moneybarn also explained his options about ending the agreement once it had 
started. I think that was fair and reasonable, given that Mr M had had the opportunity to read 
the terms of the agreement before he signed it, as well as a separate explanatory document. 
It follows that I think Moneybarn made a fair lending decision and I therefore wont be 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman