DRN-3646017
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Origen Financial Services Limited (Origen) terminated her Client 
Service Agreement (CSA) without any good reason or notification. She had recently raised 
valid concerns and considers it inappropriate and shocking for Origen to terminate its 
relationship with her because of that. She wants Origen to behave within regulatory 
standards and compensate her for any issues that arise as a result of its poor behaviours. 
Mrs Ps son, Mr P, is complaining on her behalf, Ill be referring to both in my decision.
What happened
Mrs P is 81 years of age and had been a client of Origen for around 20 years. After raising 
some issues with Origen about the handling of her account, it terminated her CSA. As a 
result, Mrs P will need to find another independent financial adviser and pay around 3.7% of 
her funds for a new assessment of her affairs. 
Mrs P complained to Origen. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mrs P had raised 
several concerns since 2018, mostly unsubstantiated and which had involved a lot of cost to 
Origen. And after its offer of a full financial review  at its own cost  was rejected, it 
concluded the relationship had irrevocably broken down. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with the outcome and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Origen had not made any effort to speak with her to raise any concern about 
the relationship. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
Origen was entitled to choose who it had as a client.
The Client Service Agreement made it clear that either party could terminate the 
client agreement at any time. 
Origen had decided that the relationship had broken down irrevocably and was 
entitled to make a commercial decision to end the relationship. 
Origen had complied within the relevant regulations.
Mr P disagreed. He said;
Regardless of the terms of the agreement, the way the relationship was terminated 
was unreasonable and unfair. Contracts often contain terms which courts deem to be 
unreasonable, as was this term. 
There was no cause for Origen to terminate the relationship without consulting Mrs P. 
No notice was given, and it could reasonably have done so.
The reasons for termination were unfounded. Origen was unhappy with Mrs Ps 
responses, but those complaints were valid and reasonable.
Origen was paid in advance for its services and continued to be paid on a monthly 
basis.
Origen should have regard for Mrs Ps age and her being a longstanding client.
After further correspondence Mrs P asked for the complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman so it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has requested that I have a discussion with him prior to issuing my decision but after I 
have reached that decision. I wont be doing this. I say this because it wouldnt be fair to 
discuss any conclusion I may have reached with only one of the parties to a complaint. That 
would give that party the opportunity to add any further comment or opinion prior to my 
issuing my decision without the other party being given the same opportunity. My role is to 
decide the outcome to a complaint based on the information and evidence the two parties to 
the complaint have provided. 
If I am of the opinion that I dont have sufficient information in order to reach a decision, then 
I can request it. If I reach the same conclusion as the investigator, but for different reasons, 
or I disagree with the investigator, then I can issue a provisional decision which would allow 
both parties the opportunity to respond prior to my issuing a final decision. 
In this case, I am satisfied that I have everything I need in order for me to reach a final 
decision that I consider to be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint. And after reviewing all of the information and evidence available, I agree with the 
conclusion reached by the investigator and broadly for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr P has made comments about Origen not acting fairly in terminating its relationship with 
Mrs P. And its the termination of that relationship and whether Origen was entitled to do so 
in the manner that it did that is at the crux of this complaint. 
At the outset of her relationship with Origen Mrs P agreed to the Client Service Agreement 
and Terms of Business. For completeness I quote them here;
The Client Service Agreement 
This agreement may be terminated by either party in writing at any time 
without penalty, subject to any income due. This would mean that we would 
no longer be reviewing your financial situation or investments on a regular 
basis and any work in progress would cease with immediate effect. 
 The Terms of Business 
Termination of this agreement
You, or we, may terminate our authority to act on your behalf at any time, 
without penalty.
Notice of termination can be given by either party in writing at any time, 
subject to payment of any outstanding fees. Termination will not stop any 
transactions already started on your behalf or any rights or obligations already 
arising.We will not make any charge in respect of cancellation of ongoing services 
except for an amount proportionate to service already provided.
The investigator had concluded that Mr P was acting on behalf of his mother, hence Origen 
not engaging with Mrs P about the termination. Mr P disagreed with this. He said he was 
only authorised to deal with complaints on her behalf and not authorised to alter any of her 
arrangements. So, Origen should have contacted Mrs P about the termination. However, I 
disagree with this. There is an email on file dated 19 November 2021 from Mr P to Origen. In 
that email it says As Origen are aware I am authorised to deal with my mothers affairs. And 
Mr P had been acting on his mothers behalf for a few years. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Origen to have directed the termination notice to Mr P rather than Mrs P. 
And even if it had, I dont think that would have made any difference to the overall outcome. 
I say this because theres nothing to suggest that Origen would have acted differently  ie a 
reconsideration of the termination  if it had contacted Mrs P directly. It had already decided 
the relationship was irreconcilable and it was within its rights  and to which Mrs P agreed to 
at the outset  to unilaterally make that decision. 
Mr P said that a customer raising a complaint is not a reason to terminate a relationship. The 
complaint process should have been allowed to run its full course with the Financial 
Ombudsman first. While Mr P may think this would have been a better course of action for 
Origen to take, that doesnt mean that Origen had to do so. It didnt. It complied with the 
complaints process by responding the complaints raised by Mr P and in its response 
informing of referral rights to this service. That is a completely separate issue than it deciding 
to terminate the relationship. So, I cant agree that it acted unfairly. 
Mr P is of the view that the Financial Ombudsman should consider what is reasonable and 
given that Origen was suffering no immediate detriment then its actions seem unreasonable. 
He has also said that courts regularly find that terms of a contract are unfair. This service is 
not the courts. Its remit is to find a fair and reasonable outcome to a complaint. And I dont 
find that Origen has acted unfairly, or unreasonably. Mr P says that Origen wasnt suffering 
any immediate detriment. But clearly Origen disagreed with this and concluded that as the 
relationship was irreconcilable, the most appropriate course of action was for it to terminate 
the relationship as it was entitled to do. 
  
In response to the investigator, Mr P said Origen should have considered the impact on   
Mrs P. It should have understood her situation. It had contacted the underlying fund 
managers to terminate its arrangement without any warning to Mrs P. This was a separate 
action that Origen took to undertake without any notice to Mrs P. 
I appreciate that it would have been inconvenient for Mrs P  or Mr P acting on her behalf  
to go and seek a new independent financial adviser. But I note that Origen did provide 
details of a Government website which gave information and sources of advice about how to 
go about that. So, after concluding that the relationship wasnt sustainable, I dont think 
Origen was being unfair. And it tried to pass on impartial information and guidance to assist 
Mr P on behalf of his mother. 
Mr P has commented that Origen offered a free review of Mrs Ps financial affairs as 
recompense for the poor service. He said that if Origen had offered alternative compensation 
or goodwill, the relationship could have ended in an acceptable manner. It offered no 
alternative. My understanding of this offer was that it was made in 2019 and valued at 
between £5,000 and £8,000. Mr P said Mrs P reasonably asked for a cash settlement in 
order to obtain advice from another source, but Origen didnt offer any financial 
compensation, whereas Origens original offer had ssuggested a recognition of failings of its 
services. But I dont agree. Origen was entitled to make that offer. And a review of Mrs Ps financial 
affairs at its expense suggests to me that it was trying to create a positive relationship with 
Mrs P. I dont think the offer was a reflection of it admitting any wrongdoing on its behalf. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I dont find that Origen has been unreasonable or 
unfair in terminating its client agreement with Mrs P. It made a decision, which it was entitled 
to do, that the relationship had broken down irreconcilably, and as a result it ended that 
relationship in line with the terms that it had agreed with Mrs P at the outset.  
In conclusion, and in the individual circumstances of this complaint, I dont uphold it and I 
wont be asking Origen to do anything further. I appreciate that Mrs P will be disappointed 
with the outcome, but I hope I have been able to explain how I reached it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman