DRN-1978815
 
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the delay Fairmead Insurance Limited caused when it dealt with 
a claim he made under his home insurance policy. Mr Fs legal representative is dealing with 
his complaint on his behalf.
Fairmead Insurance Limited is the lead insurer and all reference to them in my decision 
includes its agents.
What happened
Mr F bought a home insurance policy with Fairmead. In October 2018 he insured two 
specific items of jewellery: a bracelet and a watch. 
Later in October 2018 Mr F was the victim of a robbery at home and was injured. The two 
items of jewellery were stolen. He made a claim to Fairmead. 
Fairmead settled the claim in May 2019. It paid the sum insured for both the bracelet and the 
watch. 
Mr F complained to Fairmead. He felt it had caused unreasonable delay and had asked for 
information that wasnt relevant. He said the value of the watch had gone up significantly 
during the time it had taken to settle the claim. He felt it wasnt until he instructed a solicitor 
to act for him that Fairmead moved his claim forward to settlement. Even then, further delays 
were caused.
Mr F wanted Fairmead to pay the difference in the appreciation of the watch and reimburse 
him for his legal fees. Mr F accepted that a reasonable period of time to investigate and 
settle would be between eight and ten weeks. In this time, the value of his stolen watch had 
appreciated by £5,000 and he would have accepted paying this difference to buy a 
replacement. Mr F said the items bought were an investment. He believes Fairmead should 
indemnify him for his loss as he couldnt buy a replacement. He said the value of the watch 
had appreciated by approximately £34,000 from £50,000 between October 2018 and March 
2019. It was no longer for sale and the wait time to purchase it was several years, which 
made it was even more valuable. 
Fairmead declined to pay any more than the sum insured for the watch. It accepted it had 
caused some delay and paid Mr F £50 compensation, which it later increased to a total of 
£200. Mr F remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator thought Fairmead had resolved Mr Fs complaint reasonably and settled the 
claim in line with the policy. 
Mr F didnt agree. His representative believes this claim should have been settled within 
eight weeks. He says Fairmead embarked on a fishing expedition and Section 13A of the 
Insurance Act is set up to combat such actions by an insurer. I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2020 intending to uphold the complaint. 
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision is along the same lines as my 
provisional decision. 
For ease, Ive set out the complaints under headings below.
Delay
The robbery happened in late October 2018. A loss adjuster interviewed Mr F on 2 
November 2018 and provided a report for Fairmead on 20 November 2018. Mr F had 
provided proof of purchase for both items by way of receipts and photos. At this stage the 
loss adjuster had no concerns about the claim and awaited advice from Fairmead. It had 
requested a report from the police on 21 November 2018. On 23 November 2018 the police 
replied to the loss adjuster. The police said it would be a further six to eight weeks before 
any further development while they waited for forensic evidence. 
In November 2018 Fairmead decided to instruct an investigator to carry out further 
background checks. 
The investigator provided a report on 5 December 2018. There were some inconsistencies in 
Mr Fs employment history and so they recommended a telephone discussion with Mr F. 
They also recommended obtaining further information in relation to the injuries Mr F had 
suffered in the incident. 
Fairmead agreed and the investigator spoke to Mr F on 17 December 2018. On the same 
day, the investigator provided a second report with no concerns as to the validity of Mr Fs 
claim. 
I think the enquiries Fairmead made here were reasonable to satisfy themselves that the 
claim was valid. So I dont think it was responsible for any delays up until this point. 
However, on 7 January 2019 Fairmead asked the investigator to obtain evidence of the 
injuries Mr F had suffered during the robbery. The investigator requested a copy of the 
ambulance report on 26 February 2019. On 6 March 2019 on receipt of the report, Fairmead 
was satisfied that the claim was genuine. 
In the meantime the final police report was available on 23 December 2018. The police 
report confirmed that Mr F had required hospital treatment and that first aid was 
administered at the scene by them. I cant see any evidence that the police report was 
followed up by the loss adjuster after the police updated them on 23 November 2018.
I dont think evidence of Mr Fs injury during the robbery had any relevance to the validity of 
his claim: particularly in light of the fact that the investigator had carried out a background 
check and telephone interview with Mr F and was satisfied his claim was valid. In any event, 
the police report which was available two months after the incident, would in my view have 
been enough to validate the claim for theft. So I think Fairmead caused undue delay by requesting further information not relevant to the claim. I think it was in a position to settle 
the claim on receipt of the finalised police crime report. Ive set out what I think Fairmead 
should do to put things right at the end of my final decision. 
Appreciation in value of the watch
On 7 January 2019 Mr F said he was unhappy with how long Fairmead was taking to settle 
his claim. On 21 January 2019 he provided the loss adjuster with a link to show that the 
watch had appreciated in value significantly since the theft. He explained that the watch was 
no longer available to buy, and the waiting list was around three years. 
Mr Fs policy says it will pay the sum insured of the item: which in this case was £50,000. Mr 
F bought the watch in July 2018. I think Mr F adequately insured his watch based on the 
price he paid for it three months before.
We think its reasonable for an insurer to put a customer back in the position they would 
have been in had the theft not happened. I think Fairmead would have done this had it 
settled the claim in a reasonable period of time. As Ive said, I think this would have been 
around two months after the incident  when the finalised police report was available. Mr F 
told us that the value of the watch had appreciated by around £5,000 at this stage  and he 
would have contributed the difference to buying a replacement watch then. He accepts that a 
reasonable period of time to settle his claim would have been between eight and ten weeks. 
If Fairmead had regularly chased the police for the report, I think an allowance of around two 
weeks from the date of availability (23 December 2018) is reasonable for Fairmead to have 
been in a position to settle the claim. This means I think Fairmead should have settled Mr Fs 
claim by 7 January 2019. And this is the date Fairmead made its decision to request 
evidence of Mr Fs injuries. 
But Fairmead didnt pay the claim until 13 May 2019  even though it accepted the claim in 
March 2019. Fairmead paid Mr F £200 compensation for its delay. But I dont think this is 
enough to put things right.
Putting things right
I think Fairmead is responsible for the difference in appreciation of Mr Fs stolen watch from 
7 January 2019 to 13 May 2019. This is the date I think Fairmead was in a position to settle 
Mr Fs claim if it had dealt with it in a timely manner. I understand that there is a very long 
waiting list to buy a replacement of Mr Fs type of watch due to demand. 
So I think the fairest outcome is for Fairmead to instruct an independent watch valuer to 
provide a valuation for Mr Fs watch between these dates. I think Fairmead should pay the 
difference in the appreciation as a result of the delay it caused in settling the claim. And I 
think Fairmead should pay interest on the difference at 8% simple interest a year from 7 
January 2019 to the date it pays Mr F.
Legal fees
In March 2019 Mr F instructed a solicitor as he was unhappy with how long it was taking 
Fairmead to settle his claim. I understand his reasons for doing this. But I think this was Mr 
Fs choice. So I dont think Fairmead is responsible for reimbursing Mr F for his legal costs in 
this case. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to do 
the following:
Pay the difference in appreciation in value of Mr Fs watch subject to independent 
valuation evidence from a specialist watch valuer  from 7 January 2019 to 13 May 
2019.
Pay interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from 7 January 
2019 to the date it pays Mr F. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman