DRN-3994945
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
has unfairly declined a legal expenses insurance (LEI) claim made under its commercial 
insurance policy.
Any reference to R or DAS includes respective agents or representatives unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events 
and focused on key issues.
R sought to make an LEI claim through its DAS policy related to a landlord dispute it 
said began in September 2019. The policy had been in place from August 2019.
R appointed its own solicitors who sought to make amendments to the standard 
terms of appointment with DAS.
Under DAS advice, arbitration began between R and the third party. R says it asked 
for an interim payment from DAS during this arbitration, and DAS was aware if the 
payment wasnt made by 22 October 2021 the arbitration would be struck out.
DAS says it had made it very clear to Rs solicitor that it will not make interim 
payments  which is a term of the conditions of appointment in place on several 
occasions across September and October 2021 prior to the deadline. 
R says DAS made the payment late, which led to the arbitration being struck out and 
R being liable for the costs of the arbitration. It complained to DAS, saying its policy 
did not say interim payments would not be made.
In October 2022 DAS declined the LEI claim for multiple reasons.
oUnder its fraud exclusion, as R had exaggerated its claim and supported the 
claim with false statements. 
oR was aware of the condition of the property prior to taking out the policy and 
failed to disclose this at inception or renewal.
DAS withdrew cover and declined the claim in full, including defendant and arbitrator 
costs, the claim for costs for Rs solicitor, and any other costs arising from 
enforcement action taken by the defendant.
R said this was unfair and held DAS responsible for the arbitration being struck out, 
and disputed any fraud took place. It also said it could have disputed the claims with 
expert evidence. R said the arbitrator was seeking costs.
The complaint came to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into what 
happened. She didnt uphold it, saying:
oDAS initial acceptance of the claim was based on the information provided to 
it at the time. And in October 2022 when key information  the statement of 
claim from August 2021  was provided, it showed knowledge of the condition 
of the property dated back to 2018. So, it reassessed the claim in light of this, 
as it was entitled to and had fairly decided the claim was exaggerated under 
its fraud clause. 
oThe arbitrators comments stated the property was still in use when DAS was 
told by R use was not possible. And she said while R disagreed with the 
comments, it was fair for DAS to rely on them. 
oDAS told R on multiple occasions that all costs would be considered at the 
end of the claim  which is in line with other policies on the market.
oDAS did make one payment for the arbitrator costs but this was not forwarded 
on as intended, which she said wasnt DAS responsibility.
R disagreed. It referred to a call in March 2021 in which it said a variation to the 
terms of business was made and agreed with DAS. And that DAS had been informed 
of the appointment of Rs solicitors from April 2020, related to a previous claim.
The Investigator said the call in question did not demonstrate that DAS agreed to 
change its terms of business  nor was confirmation given in the call about paying a 
court issue fee. And Rs solicitors did not provide any follow up evidence as 
requested. She also said the previous claim R referenced was a separate matter, so 
she didnt uphold the complaint.
Rs solicitors disagreed, saying It had sent an email to DAS in March 2021 confirming 
it would be acting for R but not in line with the working together document, having 
crossed out a line of the terms. It also said DAS paid an arbitration fee of £1,998.60 
but this didnt arrive until days after the matter was struck out. And it highlighted an 
email from April 2020 that referenced the previous claim. 
The Investigator responded to these points saying while it was clear Rs solicitors 
intended on amending terms of the contract, there was nothing in writing to confirm 
DAS had accepted these amended terms. While DAS agreed to pay a one off interim 
payment of £1,998.60, this was only two-thirds of the arbitrators fee  as the 
remaining third wasnt covered under the policy. So, even if the payment was late, 
given costs will be usually paid at the end of the claim and this wouldnt have been 
the full amount, she didnt consider DAS responsible for the arbitration being struck 
out. And she said the April 2020 email in question referenced a new claim but 
included a reference to an old claim that was closed in 2018  which likely explained 
why the matter wasnt registered until June 2020.
Rs solicitors responded, saying DAS had agreed to its amended terms of business, 
demonstrated by DAS not negotiating further when the subject was raised. It said the 
policy does not state interim payments cannot or will not be made.
Our Investigator shared these comments with DAS and concluded:
oDAS never countersigned the agreement Rs solicitors had amended, and the 
policy terms clearly state the appointed solicitor will work under DAS 
standard terms of appointment.
oWhile the policy is mute on the point of interim payments, it also does not say 
DAS will make such payments. And in line with its terms of appointment it 
says costs will be assessed and paid at the conclusion of a case.
oMisrepresentation and non-disclosure werent relevant in this case. And 
based on what was provided, DAS had been given nothing by R to suggest 
the two cases were linked, and given the time gap of several years, it was 
reasonable for DAS to assume this was separate from the 2018 closed case.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law, regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint 
should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made 
by the parties, thats not to say I havent seen or considered them, its just I dont 
consider it necessary to specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
There are two main issues at hand here. Has DAS failed to pay towards the claim as 
it shouldve done? And has it acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim 
and withdrawing cover?
Firstly, Rs solicitors argue that DAS shouldve made an interim payment  and its 
failure to do so in good time led to the arbitration being struck out. Its not in dispute 
that the DAS standard terms of appointment state that costs will be considered at the 
end of the claim as DAS will not make interim payments of legal expenses. 
Rs solicitor argues these terms do not apply to it as it sought to vary them. And it has 
put forward that DAS lack of disagreement/negotiation on this subject should mean 
these do not apply. I disagree  R has failed to put forward any evidence to show 
DAS agreed to these terms (including the March 2021 call it has referenced)  and I 
dont consider it fair or reasonable to conclude the absence of a dispute on DAS part 
to be its implied acceptance. As it has said, it never countersigned the document in 
question and its policy terms are clear on this matter.
Ive also seen many communications from DAS (emails and phone notes) prior to the 
deadline related to the arbitration payment where it has repeatedly stated costs will 
be considered at the end of the claim. To quote one instance, in October 2020 DAS 
specifically said to Rs solicitors that it suggested the solicitor take the necessary 
steps to protect the clients position and that any claim from Rs solicitor would be 
assessed at the conclusion of the claim. So, I dont consider it has been unclear in its 
position on the matter. 
Im aware DAS subsequently did make an interim payment. Whether this was made 
late is in dispute. But given the clear communications on DAS part prior to this, and 
given the payment made was only a percentage of the total necessary cost, Im not 
persuaded it would be reasonable to consider the arbitration being struck off as DAS 
fault as R has put forward.
R has argued its terms dont specify it cannot make interim payments. And Im in 
agreement this is the case. But this doesnt persuade me its reasonable to interpret 
the policy remaining silent on the subject to mean DAS is required to make interim 
payments. Nor will I overlook the terms of appointment that state the costs will be 
considered at the end. So, Im not going to direct DAS to do anything further in 
regard to this aspect of the complaint.
Second, I have to consider whether DAS has acted fairly when relying on its fraud 
exclusion. The policy states if the policyholder or anyone acting on their behalf makes any false, 
fraudulent, or exaggerated claim, or supports a claim by false statements or 
documents  DAS will refuse to pay the whole of the claim, recover any sums already 
paid, and terminate the policy from the date of any termination and not be entitled to 
a refund of premium.
In Rs claim form it said the roof was leaking and there was substantial damage to 
the property. And given the substantial disrepair, R had been paying rent on a 
property it could not use.
The respondent in the legal claim put forward that R had continued to use the 
property  which R denied.
The arbitrator visited the property in September 2021 with representatives for R in 
which they said the majority of the sales space was in use and stacked with goods  
but noted some areas were taped off. The arbitrator did an unannounced follow up 
visit another day  on this occasion they said there were no taped off areas, or 
buckets to collect water, and no leaks in an area previously stated to be damaged. 
DAS said the arbitrator had concluded the case was overstated  and at worst was 
not wholly truthful given the continued use of the property in question was not 
consistent with the allegations made. 
R has said it strongly denies the accuracy of the arbitrators comments. But having 
reviewed these carefully, I see no reason to doubt the independent arbitrators 
findings and find their review to be compelling and persuasive. 
R has referenced its own expert reports  but from what Ive been given these 
describe the condition of the property and alongside concerns and dangers to using 
certain parts of the property. While this may be the case, this simply wouldnt 
persuade me that R wasnt using the property as the arbitrator observed  which is 
not in keeping with the circumstances described to DAS.
For all these reasons, Im satisfied DAS has fairly relied upon the evidence available 
in reaching its conclusion and relying on its fraud exclusion.
R also relied on additional reasons for not covering this claim  but given Im satisfied 
it has fairly relied on the fraud term  I see no reason to discuss these further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman