DRN-2728515
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim made on 
his motor insurance policy. He wants it to record the claim as non-fault and compensate him 
for the consequent increase in his premiums.
 
What happened
Mr P was involved in a collision with a bus in 2016. He said the bus had pulled into his lane. 
Admiral offered Mr P the choice of claiming on his policy or using a claims management 
company. Mr P chose the latter, but the claim was later passed back to Admiral as liability 
was disputed. Admiral eventually settled the claim as 50/50 split liability based on dashcam 
footage from the bus. But Mr P thought he wasnt at fault. He said Admiral hadnt obtained 
CCTV footage that was available that would have shown the incident. 
Admiral offered Mr P £50 as a goodwill gesture to recognise the time he had to wait for his 
complaint to be addressed. But Mr P rejected this offer. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Admiral hadnt been told that CCTV footage was available until it was too late. So he didnt 
think it had failed to obtain it. He thought Admiral had given Mr P sufficient information about 
his options before passing him to the claims management company. He thought it wasnt 
able to tell him what his premium increase would be until the claim was settled. But he 
thought Admiral should pay Mr P an additional £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
hed been caused by its handling of his claim. 
Admiral agreed to do this. But Mr P replied that he thought he had been treated unfairly by 
Admiral not obtaining the CCTV footage. He thought it should be responsible for its agent. 
He said he would want more than £200 compensation. Mr P asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there are several businesses involved in this complaint, I can see that Mr P 
has already approached the legal ombudsman with his concerns about his legal service. And 
hes told us that hes intending to take legal action against the claims management 
company. 
I can only consider Mr Ps complaint against Admiral here as they are all separate 
businesses. And I think, from its response to Mr Ps complaint, that Admiral gave Mr P 
sufficient information when it gave him the option of having his claim handled by the claims 
management company. 
Admiral said, based on the buss dashcam footage that Mr P had moved into the buss lane 
to avoid a parked car. So it thought Mr P was at fault, but the other insurer accepted a split 
liability settlement. Mr P said he was already established in front of the bus. He said the bus 
driver had aggressively overtaken him and deliberately collided with him. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr P the same as someone else in his position. 
I think Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr P to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr P has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on how to settle it. 
In Mr Ps case, he was told by the police that there were council CCTV cameras at the scene 
and so footage of the incident may be available. Mr P said Admiral should have obtained this 
CCTV footage. But Ive looked at the file notes and I can see that Admiral wasnt made 
aware of the CCTV footage until after it had been deleted. So I cant say that Admiral did 
anything wrong by not obtaining it. 
Mr P provided photographs. Admiral approached witnesses but they didnt provide any 
witness statements for it to consider. And I cant see that Admiral was provided with the bus 
drivers version of events. 
Admiral was provided with dashcam footage from cameras on the bus. Mr P was also 
provided with a copy of the dashcam footage. But I havent seen this so I cant say what it 
showed. I can see that Admiral reviewed this footage several times and considered that it 
showed that Mr P was at fault. It thought a court would find that Mr P should have held back 
from overtaking the parked cars to let the bus pass. It thought a split liability settlement was 
the best possible outcome. 
Mr P has disagreed. But I cant say that Admirals decision, based on its experience of 
defending claims, is incorrect. I can see that it didnt rely on one claims handlers view, but it 
reviewed the footage several times. So I think Admiral investigated the claim as far as it was 
able to and considered the evidence before making its decision to accept a split liability 
settlement. I think it was entitled to this by the policy terms and conditions. So I cant say that 
it did anything wrong. 
Mr P thought an 80/20 split settlement in his favour would have been a preferred outcome. 
But this would still be recorded as a fault claim against him and so still have affected his No 
Claims Discount (NCD) and premiums at renewal. 
Mr P wanted Admiral to tell him the affect the claim would have on his premiums. But I think 
it was reasonable for Admiral to wait until the claim had been settled before it could confirm 
this. It had already told Mr P that his NCD protection would be affected. 
Resolving liability has taken some time and I can see that Mr P has been caused frustration 
and stress by some avoidable delays in the claim where Admiral could have pressed the 
other insurer for responses. The investigator recommended that Admiral should pay Mr P 
£150 further compensation for the time and effort hes had to spend on this claim. I think 
thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances. 
I also think Admiral should honour its offer of £50 compensation for the slight delay in 
providing its response to Mr Ps complaint as this too caused Mr P inconvenience. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr P £200 (in total) compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its 
already agreed to do.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman