DRN-2218847
The complaint
Mr Es unhappy Acromas Insurance Company Limited have turned down his claim on his 
Breakdown Repair Cover (BRC).
Another company was involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it for 
simplicity Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
On October 2019 Mr Es car experienced an overheating issue, so he called out Acromas to 
find out what the problem was. Acromas did a diagnostic check and felt the problem could 
be related to a blown head gasket, so Mr E was advised to take his car to a garage to get it 
fully checked over. Testing was done by the garage, who found the cylinder head gasket had 
blown. After this further testing was needed to understand why this had happened. Mr E 
says then there was some misunderstanding about what repairs were being authorised  
and this has led to his claim being turned down. Mr E complained about this to Acromas, and 
about information given by their agents as well as how Acromas spoke about him to the 
garage.
Acromas replied to the complaint, and simply said they didnt uphold his complaint about his 
claim under the BRC, or his complaints about their agents he spoke to either. They did 
explain if Mr E thought the garage had carried out unauthorised repairs, there was another 
body he could complain to about the garage specifically.
Unhappy with this, Mr E asked us to look into things  and told us hed contacted the other 
body, but they couldnt help as the garage wasnt part of their scheme.
Acromas also got in touch with us and said its clear there had been some confusion 
between them and the garage over whatd happened. So, they agreed to review the invoice 
provided by Mr E, to see if there was anything they should pay towards the claim. After 
receiving the invoice, they said the underlying issue was due to a blockage in the coolant 
system. And a blockage in the coolant system was excluded under the terms of the policy, 
so they wouldnt pay anything towards the claim.
Our investigator considered all of this information. She didnt find Acromas had said anything 
inappropriate about Mr E in the phone calls with the garage. She did feel theyd caused 
some confusion with the garage about what needed to happen  but had acted fairly by 
agreeing to re-review the claim. And, as the reason for the fault wasnt covered, she felt 
theyd acted fairly in turning it down.
Mr E though didnt agree, he said hes not happy hes got to pay the invoice and has 
incurred more costs because of this confusion. Hed at least expect some of the invoice to 
be paid. As a result of this the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has raised concerns that work has been carried out on his car that otherwise wouldnt 
have been but for the confusion between the garage and Acromas. In addition, hes 
concerned that his claim was turned down, when he thinks it shouldnt have been and this 
will cause him some financial hardship.
Im sorry for the position Mr E finds himself in  as it cant be easy. But I think its important 
to explain that if the correct position of Mr Es claim is that it shouldnt be met, then its 
unlikely Id be able to uphold his complaint. To decide that, I need to consider the cause of 
his car breaking down, and whether the terms and conditions of his policy covers that.
Ultimately, it was found the reason for Mr Es car having issues was due to a blockage in the 
coolant system. This doesnt appear to be disputed by Mr E, and the garage who inspected 
his car have said this is the reason for his breakdown. As they inspected the car, Ive seen 
no reason to doubt this.
The policy terms and conditions say that Acromas wont provide cover for:
Any cost for Mechanical or Electrical Failure caused by accidental damage, frost, freezing, 
blockage, water penetration, road traffic accidents, theft or vandalism.
So, while I understand Mr Es frustration about Acromas not paying anything towards the 
invoice hes received, Im satisfied the reason for his breakdown isnt covered under the 
policy terms. Because of this, I wont be ordering Acromas to pay the invoice in full or part.
Im aware there was some confusion in getting to this point  where Acromas adviser didnt 
fully explain to the garage what diagnostic tests would mean they may not meet any claim. 
This initially led to the claim being turned down before it should have been, and as a result of 
Acromas error caused Mr E some distress. I cant see that this confusion led to Mr E 
incurring costs he otherwise wouldnt have as hes said though. The costs I can see hes 
incurred relate to fully understanding what the issues were. The garage, and Acromas 
specialists have both confirmed everything thats happened was necessary to understand 
what caused the breakdown. Ive not seen anything to make me think this isnt correct 
information. And as Im satisfied overall its correct for the claim not to be met I wont be 
ordering Acromas to do anything further here.
In addition, I note Mr E had some concerns about Acromas staff being rude about him to the 
garages mechanics. But Ive listened to those calls, and I havent heard Mr E being spoken 
about rudely.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman