DRN-3106471
The complaint
Ms M complains Santander UK plc (Santander) provided her with incorrect information 
concerning the effect of the remaining term of her mortgage account, following a large 
overpayment she had made. 
What happened
Ms M says she has a mortgage account with Santander and in September 2020 she 
telephoned them to ask what the impact would be on the term of her fixed rate mortgage 
account, if she was to make an overpayment of 10% of the balance, as she was allowed to. 
Miss M says the mortgage advisor informed her she was entitled, without an early 
repayment charge (ERC), to reduce the balance of her mortgage account by 10% of the 
outstanding balance as of December the previous year, and this reduction amount was 
calculated as a sum of approximately £18,000. The advisor then told Ms M such an over  
payment would reduce the term of her mortgage account by approximately 16 months. Ms M 
says the advisor told her to wait until she had taken up her new fixed interest rate product 
and the proposed lump sum reduction of £40,000 had been taken, before making the 10% 
allowable overpayment. Ms M says when she contacted Santander in November 2020, to 
arrange for the 10% reduction, she was then told the reduction would only reduce the term 
by 13 months and not 16 months as she was told originally. Ms M says no one explained to 
her that the reduction in the term, would change if the payment was made at a later date. 
Ms M says Santander should compensate her for the extra three months mortgage 
payments she will now have to pay as a result of the misinformation she was given, and for 
the inconvenience this matter has caused.
Santander says because Ms M made changes to her mortgage account since the original 
telephone conversation she had in September 2020, this altered the basis on which, the 
number of months her mortgage term is reduced by. Santander says Ms M was provided 
with the correct information at the time.
Ms M wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information and only partly upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt Santander hadnt made a mistake in the alteration of the reduction to the 
term of the mortgage, but it could have been clearer that the effect of the 10% reduction was 
only valid at the time of the call in September 2020. As a result, the investigator felt 
Santander should pay Ms M £50 by way of compensation for the upset this has caused. 
Both Ms M and Santander disagreed with the investigators view, but Santander offered to 
pay £50 as a goodwill gesture. Ms M didnt feel the offer was acceptable and still feels 
Santander should recompense her for the misinformation she was given and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I have come to the same outcome to that of the investigator, and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms M to have believed, after she was 
about to make an overpayment on her mortgage, the reduction in its term wasnt going to be 
as beneficial as she had previously been informed. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander had misled Ms M in the earlier 
discussion they held with her in September 2020, and if Ms M had been financially 
disadvantaged as a result of this. 
Ms Ms complaint centres around the fact she had spoken with an advisor at Santander in 
September 2020 and was told, in simple terms, if she exercised the 10% overpayment she 
was entitled to make without an ERC, this would reduce the term of her mortgage account 
by 16 months. Ms M makes the point, when she then went to make the overpayment of 
approximately £18,000 in November 2020, she was then informed the reduction in her 
mortgage term would now only be 13 months. Ms M says Santander never explained to her 
that this reduction in the remaining term of her mortgage account could change, if she were 
to alter the fixed interest rate on it or the balance owing, or if she was to make this 
overpayment at a later date. 
I have understood the points Ms M makes here and unfortunately we have not been able to 
get a copy of the telephone call Ms M refers to of September 2020. But, from the telephone 
transcripts and by Santanders own admission its fair to say in that telephone call in 
September, the advisor tells Ms M her mortgage would be reduced by 16 months, if she 
made the £18,000 overpayment. While its not possible to know what else was said without 
listening to the call, its reasonable to say the advisor when providing the details of the 
benefit of the overpayment to the remaining mortgage term, would be basing this on the fact 
it was going to happen at around that time. But here it was two months following that call 
when Ms M actually made the 10% overpayment, but by this time she had entered into a 
new fixed interest rate product and made a sizeable capital reduction to her mortgage 
account. So, its reasonable to say any other previous details provided to her about the 
reduction in the term of her mortgage account, werent likely to remain the same. 
Its worth mentioning here, the number of months Ms Ms mortgage would reduce by, 
following a lump sum reduction, would also be dependent on the prevailing interest rate at 
the time. I should say, the effect of an over payment on the reduction of the remaining term 
of her mortgage, is lessened when the interest rate is reduced, which is what happened 
here.
When Ms M was told her mortgage term would reduce by 16 months in September 2020, 
this was based on the capital sum outstanding at that time of approximately £174,000 which 
was to be reduced by approximately £18,000 ( the allowable 10% reduction), which would 
have left the outstanding balance at around £156,000. What happened here was Ms M 
entered into a new fixed interest rate product in October 2020, and her interest rate reduced 
from 2.84% to 1.49%, in addition Ms M made a lump sum reduction to the capital sum of 
£40,000 in October 2020. At the same time the standard variable mortgage interest rate that 
followed the expiry of the fixed interest rate period, also reduced and these interest rates 
would have been used to calculate the remaining term of the mortgage, and the impact the 
lump sum reductions would have, when Ms M went on to make the 10% reduction in late 
November 2020. So, when Ms M made the reductions, this was some time after the call she 
made, and it follows any repayment term calculation made before, would no longer apply. What I can say is, Santander have provided this service with details of the effect of the 10% 
reduction Ms M refers to. This shows, if the 10% reduction had been made in late 
September 2020, at the time Ms M called them, it would have reduced the remaining  term of 
her mortgage to approximately 9 years 10 months, from the 11 years 2 months remaining at 
that time -so reducing the existing remaining term by 16 months as Santander advised.  
As Ms M didnt carry out that reduction or make any other lump sum reduction until some -
time later in October 2020 and November 2020, its fair to say the effect of this and the lower 
interest rate she had secured would have altered the benefit of how many months it reduced 
the remaining mortgage term by, for the reasons I have already explained.
So, I cant say Santander gave Ms M incorrect information when she called them in 
September 2020, neither can I see she has been financially disadvantaged here. Afterall, the 
impact of the reductions and the lower interest rate has correctly delivered a reduction in the 
number of months remaining on her mortgage account.
Like the investigator, while perhaps Santander could have been a little clearer when 
explaining the impact of not making the reduction at the time she called in September 2020, 
on balance, I am satisfied they did provide the information, based on the reduction 
happening around that time and not at a later date. So, with that in mind I agree £50 as an 
apology for this is fair here. 
While Ms M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Santander 
here, other than the £50 compensation proposed by the investigator.
Putting things right
I instruct Santander UK plc to pay Ms M £50 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Santander UK plc to pay Ms M £50 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman