DRN-3272500
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to refund transactions he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr C transferred a large sum of money into his Nationwide account after hed won the 
money using an online betting merchant Ill refer to as M. The funds were transferred just 
before Christmas and over the holiday period Mr C says he used the account to withdraw 
cash from Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) on a few occasions. He explained that he 
tried to use his card on New Years Eve, when he realised his account was overdrawn.
Mr C has stated that he notified Nationwide the next day about the problem, but Nationwide 
have said they were first contacted by Mr C four days later about his losses. In his call to 
Nationwide, Mr C stated he hadnt carried out a series of transactions to an online betting 
merchant who Ill refer to as V. Mr C had genuine relationships with both M & V. Mr C said 
hed been restricted from using both their websites prior to Christmas. But later in the 
conversation, Mr C stated hed sent information to V in order to remove the restriction. He 
also confirmed hed carried out gambling transactions with V which resulted in winnings that 
were paid into his account and these were after hed paid his large sum into the account. Mr 
C said he didnt recognise many of the transactions and told Nationwide he was out with 
friends when some of the transactions were made or at home. Mr C said the level of betting 
was different to his normal level and he would never bet the larger amounts that he was now 
disputing.
Mr C told Nationwide he thought his phone had been hacked and in a later call he said hed 
been in touch with cyber  police in London who wanted to examine his phone. Nationwide 
asked for evidence of this  but never received anything from Mr C. 
Nationwide looked into the transactions and believed Mr C was responsible for them as they 
were done using his debit card and the transactions had matching IP addresses to earlier 
undisputed transactions. Nationwide advised Mr C that they werent going to refund him, and 
Mr C wanted to dispute another earlier set of transactions made mainly to M, which he also 
claimed were fraudulent.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
Nationwide declined to refund any of the transactions and issued a 60-day notice to close 
the account. Mr C made a complaint to Nationwide who looked into the situation. They didnt 
change their position and Mr C then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for 
an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who sought evidence 
from both parties. Mr C maintained that he wasnt responsible and that his phone had been 
hacked. He told our investigator that he couldnt use his account with V because it was 
restricted. He said a similar complaint hed made to another bank had been accepted as 
fraud  so he couldnt understand why Nationwide had turned his claim down. Mr C 
confirmed no one else had access to his banking details or were given permission by him to 
use them or his card details. 
Nationwide provided evidence of the use of Mr Cs account activity including use of his 
online banking. IP address data was also sent showing a consistent address was used for 
earlier undisputed transactions that matched the disputed activity. Nationwide believed the 
incoming large payment was used to fund all the following disputed payments. Nationwide 
later removed some of the service charges theyd applied to Mr Cs account.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Nationwide to hold Mr C liable for the 
transactions. It was noted that Mr C had used an ATM several times during this period to 
make withdrawals  and the account balance was printed on the receipts, also that Mr C had 
checked his account using his online banking much earlier than when hed reported it. So, 
he was aware of the losses for some days before notifying Nationwide. Our investigator 
pointed out that the IP address data was consistent and Mr Cs claim that his account was 
suspended by both V & M wasnt supported by the evidence hed supplied. Mr Cs complaint 
wasnt upheld, and he asked for a further review.
Its now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Nationwide can hold Mr C liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Nationwide have supplied evidence 
that shows the transactions were made using Mr Cs card details. Im satisfied the evidence 
shows the disputed transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Nationwide and Mr C agreed to operate the account to 
allow Nationwide to make payments on Mr Cs behalf. For example, Nationwides terms and 
conditions set out that if a payment is arranged online or over the phone and the correct card 
details are entered, then Nationwide accept that the instruction to make the payment is 
authorised by the account holder. So, because Mr Cs correct debit card details were 
entered into the merchants website, Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed 
transaction was authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for 
Nationwide to hold Mr C responsible, for example if his card details were used without his 
permission.
Mr C transferred a large sum into his Nationwide account before Christmas and stated hed 
only used an ATM a few times to withdraw cash. When he spoke to Nationwide, which was 
several days after he noticed his account was overdrawn, he told them he hadnt used his 
account with V because hed received a notice that his account was restricted. V had asked 
for identification information as part of their security checks to be sent to them. In the same 
call, Mr C tells Nationwide that he responded to V with documents to enable his account to 
be used. He confirmed that two transactions he made with V had resulted in winnings being 
paid into his account. Its apparent from his winnings that his account wasnt suspended 
because he was able to make bets which resulted in the payments into his account. So, I 
dont think that Mr C was unable to use his account because the evidence indicates he was 
successfully gambling at the time he denied making a large number of transactions.Mr C has claimed that his phone had a bug in it, and hed been in touch with the cyber 
police. Mr C told Nationwide who asked for evidence of this so they could consider it. Mr C 
didnt provide any evidence of this to Nationwide or the Financial Ombudsman. I would have 
thought this was critical evidence that Mr C wasnt involved , but as it hasnt been sent, Im 
unable to consider this as a realistic possibility to explain how the disputed transactions were 
made.
Mr C made the case that another bank had refunded him when he made a similar request to 
them. He supplied a letter from the bank in question which Ive examined. The letter explains 
that Mr Cs complaint isnt being upheld and he should contact M about the circumstances 
which appear to be both a refund from M and other payments to Mr C being taken back by 
M. So, I dont think that its correct to say another bank refunded him because the letter 
states they werent upholding the complaint. What appears to be the case is that the 
merchant, M, made a refund and took other funds back from Mr C. 
Mr C said hed notified Nationwide the day after hed noticed his card was declined. The 
evidence Ive seen doesnt show he contacted them at that point, rather it was several days 
later and the call Ive listened to appears to be the first occasion it was raised with 
Nationwide. What that means here is that Mr C knew several days before he told Nationwide 
that there had been a problem with his card. Hed also checked his online account to 
examine his statements several days before notifying Nationwide. So, I think its fair to 
conclude he knew the full extent of the problem quite some time before he told them. I would 
have thought that the loss of such a large amount of money would have resulted in a much 
quicker notification to Nationwide.
Mr C confirmed he hadnt provided his card details or given his phone to anyone else to use. 
Ive already made a finding that I dont think a bug in his phone is responsible and as no 
one else knew the card details, I dont think the transactions were carried out by anyone 
unknown to Mr C. The IP address data held by both M and Nationwide is consistent with 
undisputed transactions and what that means is that the same location was used to make 
transactions that Mr C accepted as genuine and those that hes disputed.
It seems unlikely that anyone without his knowledge could gain access to the same location 
to carry out transactions using his debit card. Disputed transactions were claimed with both 
V & M and I find it difficult to imagine a plausible reason how someone would gain access to 
Mr Cs accounts without his knowledge because each one would require information known 
only to Mr C, including his passwords. Id also question why they would carry out 
transactions with a gambling merchant and thats because any winnings would likely be paid 
back to the account they came from, so it seems unlikely anyone could gain any benefit from 
the gambling apart from Mr C.
Mr C made an additional complaint about service charges added to his account by 
Nationwide. By the time Mr C brought it to our attention, Nationwide had already removed 
those charges , so I dont need to consider this further.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr C was responsible for 
making these transactions or allowing someone else to use his account. I think its 
reasonable for Nationwide to hold him liable for them and I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman