DRN-3188843
The complaint
Mr S complains that Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd (Virgin Money) caused 
unnecessary delays with his request for information about his investments, and gave him 
poor service in the process. He says these delays caused issues in preparing his financial 
accounts, as well as inconvenience due to having to contact Virgin Money several times.
What happened
Mr S called Virgin Money on 28 July 2021 to ask for a copy of the tax voucher for his 
investment account, as well as a statement showing what hed paid into it. During this call 
Virgin Money said it would be sending him a dividend tax voucher and a transaction history, 
and that he should receive that within five working days.
Virgin Money got the information Mr S asked for together on 4 August and sent it to him the 
next day. Between 7 August and 13 August Mr S spoke to Virgin Money a number of times 
about his request. He said he wasnt happy at how long it was taking to get the documents to 
him (he says he received them around 11 August). During these calls Mr S also notes Virgin 
Money hadnt called him back at times theyd said they would, and says hes unhappy with 
some of the agents tone and customer service.
In his calls with Virgin Money Mr S also mentions issues with a relatives account  for clarity 
this complaint and my decision are only concerned with the issues Mr S has raised about his 
own investments and his interaction with Virgin Money about them.
Virgin Money considered Mr S complaint and said it took a day longer than it shouldve to 
send the documents to Mr S. It also said it didnt call him back when it said it would. To 
compensate Mr S for that inconvenience, Virgin Money offered him £50.
Mr S didnt think this offer fairly addressed the issues and delays he felt he experienced and 
so, asked our service to look into what happened further. One of our Investigators 
considered his complaint and agreed that Virgin Money caused delays which 
inconvenienced Mr S by causing him to call them to chase this information. She explained 
that the offer made already was fair and so wouldnt be asking Virgin Money to do anything 
more to resolve the complaint.
Mr S didnt agree saying that Virgin Money caused him a loss of around £30 of returns each 
day due to these delays. He thought the experience hed had warranted compensation of 
more like £250. Our Investigator didnt think Virgin Money had caused Mr S any investment 
loss. And she remained of the view that Virgin Moneys offer of £50 was a fair way to put 
things right. As the matter couldnt be resolved its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having listened to the phone calls between Mr S and Virgin Money, it is clear Mr S first 
asked for the tax voucher and transaction history on 28 July 2021. Mr S appears throughout 
his complaint, and in the calls with Virgin Money, to think that he asked for these documents 
before this date. While there was an earlier call on 9 July 2021 where Mr S discussed with 
Virgin Money what hes paid into the investment, he doesnt ask for the tax voucher or 
transaction statement to be sent to him. Nor is anything else said which Virgin Money ought 
to have understood as such a request. 
From this Im satisfied that Mr S first asked for these documents on 28 July 2021. Virgin 
Money does tell Mr S in this call that the tax voucher and transaction history should be with 
him in five working days. Based on later conversations between Mr S and Virgin Money, it 
appears Mr S received these documents for his account on, or around, 11 August 2021 and 
were sent to him by first class post. Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Virgin 
Money more likely than not sent the documents on 5 August. Its unfortunate that Mr S didnt 
receive them until some days later, but whatever the reason for that I dont think it would be 
fair to hold Virgin Money responsible for it.
However Virgin Money did take longer than theyd initially said to send the documents. Virgin 
Money told Mr S hed have the documents in five working days, and even presuming Virgin 
Money expected them to arrive the day after sending, this would have been a day longer 
than theyd said. Im satisfied this caused Mr S some inconvenience in having to initially 
chase things up with Virgin Money. Im pleased to see Mr S did however get the information 
just a few days later. 
Theres also some dispute about whether what Virgin Money sent was sufficient to satisfy Mr 
Ss request for tax vouchers for the dividends hed received. Tax vouchers show how much 
someone has been paid in dividends and any tax already paid on that income. Mr S had also 
asked for a record of his investment amounts. Im satisfied that the documents Virgin Money 
sent Mr S gave him the information he wanted. It gave him a statement showing investment 
values, and gave the income distributions from his investments along with tax paid.
Mr S has said hes unhappy at the way some of Virgin Moneys staff dealt with him on the 
phone. Having listened to his calls with the firm, Im not persuaded it acted unreasonably 
towards him in a way that caused him material distress or inconvenience. I think Virgin 
Money explained the situation and told him what had been sent. I dont think it took an 
unreasonable time to answer his questions or deal with his complaint.
Mr S also says this delay caused him financial loss but hasnt been able to provide any 
evidence of this loss, or further reasoning to explain his loss. He told the Investigator that he 
was losing £30 a day in returns but Ive not seen evidence to show this. The account 
information he asked for was a history of the account so wouldnt affect income, or returns, 
being received. Mr S also hasnt provided any evidence or explanation that this delay in 
preparing his accounts caused him any loss. And so, I dont find that Mr S has incurred any 
financial loss which Virgin Money would need to reimburse. 
Virgin Money offered Mr S £50 to compensate for the inconvenience caused by not sending 
Mr S his tax voucher and transaction history in the time it told him to expect it by. I think 
thats fair compensation for the inconvenience Mr S was caused by having to chase Virgin 
Money for documents he thought he ought to have received by then. 
My final decision
Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd has already offered to pay £50 to settle the complaint, 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Virgin Money Unit 
Trust Managers Ltd should pay Mr S £50, if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman