DRN-2193973
The complaint
Mr F complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as RateSetter) failed to pay him a 
bonus that he was expecting as part of an introductory offer when he opened a 
crowdfunding account. 
What happened
In December 2018, Mr F opened a crowdfunding account that invested in peer-to-peer 
loans. As part of the application process RateSetter offered a £100 bonus after the first 
12 months. Shortly after opening the account, Mr F invested £1,000 in a 12-month loan.
After the initial 12 months past, Mr F checked his account to see if the expected bonus 
had been allocated. As there was no sign of any bonus, he contacted RateSetter and 
was informed that the loan he was invested in had been repaid early in June 2019  
because of this the bonus conditions were not met.  Further, he was told his funds 
remined uninvested, so he hadnt earnt any interest since June 2019. Mr F raised a 
complaint. He didnt recall receiving information that his loan had been repaid early. And 
he didnt think the terms and conditions of the bonus were clear that he needed to be 
invested continuously. He said he was induced into opening the account because of the 
introductory bonus and has lost out on receiving it through no fault of his own. He also 
feels hes has lost out by not receiving any interest when his funds remained uninvested. 
RateSetter didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the borrower repaid Mr Fs loan early 
in June 2019. It said it wrote to him to confirm this at the time. It said as Mr Fs account 
settings had auto reinvestment set to off, the repaid funds were place in his holding 
account. It said the requirements to receive the bonus meant the funds had to be 
invested for 12 months. As Mr Fs funds had been in the holding account since June, he 
wasnt eligible for the bonus. 
Mr F wasnt happy with the response, so referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. One of our investigators looked into it, he didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought RateSetter had correctly applied the terms and conditions of the 
promotion and because of the way Mr F set his account, he was not eligible for the £100 
bonus payment as his funds were not allocated for a full 365 days. He was satisfied the 
account has been operated correctly and in line with Mr Fs specific wish not to reinvest 
his funds automatically. And RateSetter was not a fault for Mr F not receiving interest 
after June 2019. 
Mr F didnt accept the investigators conclusions. In summary, he said that he has missed 
out on the bonus through no fault of his own. He thinks the conditions of the introductory 
offer werent transparent. He didnt think he would have received the bonus even if he 
had selected for auto reinvestment on his account. He said he wouldnt have left his 
money in the account if he would have known that RateSetter would fail to honour the 
promotion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered the terms of the introductory offer. RateSetter has provided a 
copy of the promotional terms and conditions that it says were available to Mr F when he 
opened his account. 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of the promotion, the most relevant part 
relates to funds being invested continuously for a year. The specific term says:
You will qualify for a £100 bonus if you invest and put on loan a minimum of 
£1,000 within 8 weeks post registration and keep this invested for 365 days
Mr F met the first part of this term as he did invest £1,000 within eight weeks of opening 
his account but he didnt meet the second part as his funds didnt remain invested for the 
whole year. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions and having done so Im satisfied that it was 
made clear that funds needed to remain invested for the whole year in order to receive 
the bonus.  
Ive also gone on to consider whether Mr F has been treated fairly by RateSetter in how 
it has applied the terms and whether it treated him fairly in its decision not to pay him the 
bonus. 
RateSetter has provided evidence that it informed Mr F his initial 12-month investment 
into a loan was repaid early by the borrower. This resulted Mr Fs funds being returned 
to his holding account  and no longer invested. The reason the funds were placed in 
the holding account rather than reinvested was because of the settings applied to his 
account. Its not in dispute that Mr F set his account to turn off auto reinvestment. So, the 
result of this was Mr F no longer had invested funds  which as explained above, was a 
requirement to receive the bonus. 
I appreciate Mr Fs frustration that the early loan repayment and his decision to set his 
account to turn auto reinvestment off has impacted his eligibility for the bonus, but I dont 
think RateSetter can be found at fault for this situation. I also dont think its reasonable 
to say RateSetter was required to tell Mr F that by not having the reinvestment setting 
turned on, it could impact his bonus payment. I appreciate Mr F believes the investment 
and bonus terms were difficult to follow. But I think they were sufficiently clear around 
the requirement for funds to be invested for 365 days. 
Ive also considered the other comments Mr F has made about the reinvestment setting. 
He says, even if he would have selected to keep auto reinvestment turned on, its still 
unlikely he would have been eligible for the bonus. While this is a hypothetical scenario, 
I still dont agree it is clear Mr F wouldnt have qualified for the bonus payment  
assuming he met all of the other terms. The purpose of the auto reinvestment function is 
that when funds are returned, they will be reinvested into another loan  and thus 
allowing customers to remain invested and earning interest. I appreciate Mr F had 
concerns about not being tied into an investment for longer than he intended. But this 
suggests a disparity in aims as Mr F was reluctant to commit his money for more than 
the year required to earn the bonus and the terms of the bonus seem to be designed to attract longer term investors. But in any case, the terms were clear the funds needed to 
remain invested and didnt account for situations where customers wanted to restrict 
their investment to no more than a year. Overall, I dont think there is a strong argument 
to say Mr F has been treated unfairly by RateSetter. 
Ive also considered the points Mr F raises about him not earning interest on his funds 
from June 2019. RateSetter has provided a copy of an email it holds from Mr Fs account 
that it says was sent in June 2019 to inform him of the early repayment of his 
investment. Having reviewed the email, it contains the following statement confirming 
repayment of the loan We're writing to inform you that your investment of £1,000.00 that 
was matched to loan contract CXXXXX427 in the 1 Year market, has been fully repaid 
by the borrower. It also confirms that his settings were to return the funds to the holding 
account. 
I understand Mr F doesnt recall receiving this email. But as explained, RateSetter has 
been able to send a copy of the contents of the email and its contact records to show the 
date it was sent. So, on balance I think it was sent. It follows that Im satisfied Mr F was 
informed that the loan he invested in had been re-paid early. The reason no interest was 
earnt from June 2019 was because of the instruction made by Mr F not to reinvest. So 
again, I dont think it would be reasonable to find RateSetter responsible for the lack of 
return on the funds.
I do understand Mr Fs comments about not leaving the money in the account if he was 
aware he wouldnt receive the bonus or earn interest. But in order to say RateSetter 
should do something to compensate him, I would need to establish that it has made a 
mistake or treated Mr F unfairly. I havent found this to be the case  for the reasons 
already explained. So, this means that Im not going to ask RateSetter to do anything 
further. I appreciate this will come as disappointment to Mr F, but I havent found 
grounds to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman