DRN-2641209
The complaint
Miss H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax recorded an entry about her 
on fraud prevention databases in connection with her mortgage.
What happened
Miss H took out a residential mortgage with Halifax in 2015. In 2017, following an internal 
audit, Halifax recorded markers against her. Miss H discovered the markers when alerted by 
her employer following a background check.
Miss H complained. She didnt think it was fair for the markers to be added. She said she 
was at risk of losing her job as a result.
Halifax wouldnt agree to remove the markers. It said its checks had revealed concerns 
about what Miss H told it when she took the mortgage out.
She says that although it is a residential mortgage she hasnt lived in the property herself. 
She originally took the mortgage out intending for a close family member to live in the 
property, and when they moved out briefly she let it out until they moved back in. Her family 
member has lived in the property for some of the time, Miss H has been there herself, and 
she has on occasion let it out commercially. But she applied for it on the basis that her family 
member would live there, said so at the time, and the family member did live there for some 
time.
Halifax said it was told when the mortgage application was made that Miss H intended to live 
in the property herself. It said it did allow residential mortgages for family members  which it 
classed as second home mortgages  but this mortgage wouldnt have qualified for one of 
those because the loan to value was too high. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Miss H asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fraud prevention databases exist so that various financial businesses can share 
information with each other about applications they receive about which they have 
suspicions. Theyre an important tool  but the consequences for an individual entered on 
the database can be severe, so its also important theyre only used appropriately. 
The various databases all have rules, therefore. A common feature is that a report should 
only be made where theres reasonable suspicion of fraud. That means the evidence 
required to make a report doesnt need to prove fraud beyond reasonable doubt or even on 
the balance of probabilities. But it means there needs to be enough so that, for example, a 
credible report could be made to the police for investigation (whether or not that was actually 
done).
In this case, Im considering whether Halifax acted fairly. Its not for me to make a finding 
about whether or not Miss H misled Halifax when she took the mortgage out. What I need to 
decide is whether it was reasonable for Halifax to conclude it had enough evidence to make 
the entry on the databases.
Halifax allows customers to apply for residential mortgages where they are not planning to 
live in the property themselves. This isnt appropriate for a formal tenancy (that would need a 
buy to let mortgage), but can be used either for a borrowers second home, or as a home for 
a family member. The maximum loan to value Halifax allows for such mortgages is 75%. As 
this mortgage was for around 90% loan to value, it wouldnt qualify for this scheme.
Ive seen evidence of the application Miss H made, via a broker. In that application, she said 
that she would be living at the property herself all the time, and that no one else would live 
there.
Miss H has given us her council tax bills. These show the liability for the property, and also 
Miss Hs personal liability for paying the council tax. Miss H would be liable personally if she 
was living in the property or it was unoccupied; if someone else was resident, they would be 
liable for paying it. The 2015-16 bill shows that Miss H was only liable for council tax for two 
weeks after the mortgage completed  suggesting someone else occupied the property 
thereafter. And Ive also seen evidence which suggests that shortly after the mortgage 
completed the property was let through a commercial letting agency.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence and Ive taken into account everything Miss H has 
said, including about the impact the marker has had on her. But in all the circumstances, I 
dont think Halifax acted unreasonably when it concluded it had enough evidence to place 
the marker. And so I dont think I can fairly tell Halifax to remove it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman