DRN-3486567
The complaint
Mr M complains Monzo Bank Ltd registered a fraud marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database. He doesnt think its done so fairly.
What happened
Mr M held an account with Monzo. On 6 February 2021, his account was credited with £300. 
Shortly afterwards he transferred £250 and £50 to two different parties. 
The payment into Mr Ms account was identified as fraudulent - the bank from which the 
funds had come told Monzo their customer had been the victim of a scam. Monzo froze the 
account and on 7 February Mr M contacted Monzo about this. Monzo said it was conducting 
a review. 
Following a review, Monzo told Mr M that it would be closing his account.  Mr M wasnt 
overly concerned about the closure as he says this was only an online account, but he later 
discovered Monzo had also placed a misuse of facility marker against him with CIFAS 
which was preventing him from opening an account with another bank. He contacted Monzo 
to complain, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said, it had placed the marker in 
line with its internal policies and regulatory obligations. Mr M referred his complaint to us. 
In doing so, Mr M explained that hed loaned £551.99 to a friend in September 2020, who I 
shall refer to as J. He said J had agreed to pay him back and he provided text messages 
showing J had asked for his account details on the day in question. So, he understood that 
the money he received was payment back from J.
Mr M went onto explain that he paid £250 from those funds to an acquaintance  T. As T had 
previously sent money for him overseas to his family and he needed to pay him.  He said T 
acted as a broker in sending and receiving money and that this was an established 
arrangement. And he said the payment for £50 was for a desk he was buying and provided 
further text messages in respect of this. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but he didnt think Monzo had treated Mr 
M unfairly.  He was satisfied Monzo was entitled to record the marker as it had received 
evidence to show that the payment of £300 was fraudulent and he didnt find Mr Ms 
explanation for what he says he understood the payment was for persuasive. Moreover, he 
noted that Monzo was entitled to close the account in line with the account terms and 
conditions.  
Mr M didnt accept the adjudicators conclusion about the CIFAS marker and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
- There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and] 
- The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Ms account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr M was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. To meet the standard of 
proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out checks of sufficient depth 
and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the account holder the 
opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand their level of 
knowledge and intention.
Monzo received a report from the third party bank that the incoming payment was from a 
fraud. And while the adjudicator noted Monzo didnt ask Mr M for more information about 
what he knew, he explained that this wouldnt be the end of the matter. As there are further 
considerations. In order to determine Mr Ms complaint, I need to consider whether I think 
having regard for what we know now that theres enough evidence to show fraudulent funds 
entered the account and that Mr Ms actions suggest he was complicit in this. And having 
considered everything, I find that Monzo is justified in recording the fraud marker here. Id 
like to explain why in a little more detail.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ms 
account on 6 February, did so because of fraudulent activity. I have seen the report from the 
sending bank. So, the only matter which remains in dispute here is whether Mr M was 
complicit in allowing his account to receive this illegitimate payment.
Mr M has provided information about why he was expecting money into his account and why 
he also needed to pay that out. He blames his friend J for what happened and says he had 
no idea hed use the account to send fraudulent funds. Ive thought about what Mr M has 
said but Im afraid Im not persuaded by his version of events. While hes provided evidence 
to show hed lent J money in the past and J had asked him for his account details on 6 
February, the senders details didnt match those of J - they were for someone else. And I 
would have expected him to question that. Mr M says that he thought J might have arranged 
to send the money through someone else but this doesnt explain why he didnt query why J 
had only sent him £300 and not £551.99, after checking his account and then confirming 
with J that hed got the money. J replied, okay nice. The available evidence also doesnt 
demonstrate that what J was arranging to pay was in respect of what had been loaned. The 
evidence only shows that Mr M had at a point in the past lent J money.
Mr M told us that he then paid £250 to T because he owed him that. But as an observation if 
this was the case, then I dont understand why T didnt simply deduct that amount from the 
£608 hed sent Mr M the day before into his account with another bank. So, some of the testimony here isnt in my view plausible. 
The account with Monzo was opened in September 2020 and Ive reviewed the statements. 
The transactions are all for very small amounts with a nominal balance of mostly a few 
pounds and then the payment into the account on 6 February 2021 is out of character with 
the established conduct.  Funds are then paid out shortly after receipt of what was ultimately 
a fraudulent payment. Again, I note Mr Ms comments about why J was sending him money. 
But when taking all these points together, I think theres enough to say that if Monzo had 
made enquiries and been presented with the same evidence, it was reasonably justified in 
loading the marker. So, I dont think its treated Mr M unfairly in relation to the marker and I 
dont think it needs to remove it.  It follows that I wont be requiring Monzo to do anything. 
Finally, for completeness Im satisfied Monzo closed Mr Ms account in line with the terms 
and conditions. So, I find it made no mistake here either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman