DRN-2434564
The complaint
Mr L has complained about fees and charges added to his mortgage account by Landmark 
Mortgages Limited. Mr L also says that Landmark has changed the terms and conditions of 
his mortgage when it is not allowed to do so.
What happened
In May 2004 Mr L borrowed £155,000 on an interest-only basis over a 25-year term from 
Northern Rock, which later became NRAM and which, from 2016, has been known as 
Landmark. The loan is secured by a mortgage over a leasehold property, and under the 
terms of the lease the freeholders (or their agents) require payment of ground rent and 
service charges. 
The freeholders have, over the years, been granted six county court judgments against Mr L, 
for a total of £22,600, in relation to non-payment of ground rent and service charges. In order 
to prevent forfeiture of the lease, Landmark has paid the ground rent and services charges 
and added the cost of this to Mr Ls mortgage (I will refer to these payments as expenses). 
Landmark has also applied administrative fees (I will refer to these payments as fees) to the 
account in relation to the work it has had to do in respect of the payment of the expenses. 
Interest has been applied to both expenses and fees.
On 22 February 2020 Mr L complained about the expenses and fees on his account. Mr L 
said that these must be reimbursed. Mr L also said that the fees had been £50 from the date 
his mortgage began on 20 May 2004 until they were changed to £30 plus Bank of England 
Base Rate + 2.5% in 2013. Mr L says this is unlawful and that Landmark had no right to do 
this. 
Landmark didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr L raised it with us.
An investigator looked at the complaint. She thought part of the complaint had been brought 
too late for us to consider. 
The investigator looked at the issues that she thought had been raised in time but didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that the terms and conditions 
specified that Mr L was required to pay ground rent and service charges under his lease. 
She noted that they also allowed Landmark to pay these where Mr L had not paid them and 
where there was a risk of the lease being forfeited. 
The investigator was also satisfied that the fees charged by Landmark for paying the 
expenses hadnt changed since 2013. She explained to Mr L that the expenses, plus the 
fees charged by Landmark, were in sub-accounts. She noted that Landmark had written to 
Mr L about this at the time. 
The investigator was satisfied that the tariff and terms and conditions provided that interest 
would be added to unpaid expenses and fees at Bank of England Base Rate + 2.5%, and 
that this would be added annually whilst the expenses and fees remained outstanding. The 
investigator thought this was reasonable, and that the figures in the sub-accounts were 
correct.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators findings. In summary, Mr L is insistent that Landmark 
has changed his terms and conditions, and that, because of its corporate structure, 
regulatory supervision and governance, it had no right to do so. As a result, Mr L says that 
the application of interest at BOE + 2.5% to unpaid fees is unlawful. Mr L also says he was 
in dispute with the freeholders and so the amounts should never have been paid in the first 
place. 
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 11 February 2021 I issued a decision which explained that we can only consider 
expenses and fees applied to the account after 22 February 2014.
Payment of ground rent and service charges: Im satisfied that Landmark acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account in paying these. The terms and 
conditions provide that Mr L is required to pay any expenses due on the secured property, 
but that if he does not, Landmark is entitled to do so. 
Prior to February 2014, there had been several previous demands, six county court 
judgments and even possession proceedings by the freeholders due to Mr Ls failure to pay 
the expenses. Given this, Im satisfied that it was reasonable, when further expenses 
became outstanding, and demands for payment were sent to Landmark, for Landmark to 
pay them.
I can see Mr L disputes liability for the expenses Landmark has paid on his behalf. If Mr L 
doesnt believe he owes these sums, its a matter between him and his freeholders and their 
managing agents. Im satisfied that Landmark was presented with sufficient evidence  
county court judgements  to justify payment of the expenses, particularly as at one stage 
possession proceedings to forfeit the lease had been started. Landmark was entitled to 
protect its security.
Mr L also says he disputes the six county court judgments entered against him by the 
freeholders totalling £22,600. If thats the case, Mr L will need to apply to the county court to 
have those judgments set aside. If any of them are set aside, I would expect the freeholders 
to reimburse Landmark with whatever amount the court has decided Mr L doesnt owe, 
where that amount has already been paid by Landmark. If I were to order Landmark to 
remove the £22,600 for the six county court judgments from Mr Ls account, I would be 
interfering in the decisions made by the court, which I have no power to do.
Change in administrative fees: The terms and conditions say at clause 20.3:
The amount of any Fee which we charge under condition 20.2 will not exceed the 
amount stated in our Tariff. We may add new Fees to our Tariff, or remove existing 
Fees from it, to reflect changes in the nature of the work described in condition 20.2. 
We may change the amount of any Fee listed in our Tariff to reflect changes in the 
cost of doing the work for which the Fee is charged.The Northern Rock tariff from 23 December 2005 shows that the fee it will charge when it 
has had to pay Ground Rent and Service Charge is £50. This equates with Mr Ls 
recollection that this is the fee that applied when he took out the mortgage in May 2004. 
According to the original account terms and conditions, interest is chargeable at the account 
rate on all expenses and fees outstanding. 
In 2013 the fee for paying these expenses was changed from £50 to £30, with interest being 
charged on unpaid expenses and fees at Bank of England Base Rate + 2.5%. The terms 
and conditions allow for this. The £30 fee is applied annually on the outstanding sum if it is 
not repaid in full. This change in fee pre-dates the point from which I am able to consider 
expenses and fees, which is 22 February 2014, so I will make no further comment on it.
Bank of England Base Rate is currently 0.10%, so the rate charged on the outstanding 
expenses and fees is 2.6%. If this had not changed in 2013, Mr L would be charged interest 
at the account rate. Mr Ls account is, I believe, on Standard Variable Rate (SVR), currently 
4.39%. 
The expenses and fees have been moved to sub-accounts and are no longer shown in the 
main mortgage account. As the rate of interest (Bank of England Base Rate + 2.5%) applied 
to the expenses and fees is different from the rate which applies to the main account (SVR), 
it makes commercial sense to do this. I note Landmark informed Mr L of this.
Im satisfied it is reasonable to separate out the expenses and fees into sub-accounts, as it 
maintains a clear delineation between the mortgage borrowing separate from any other 
expenses and fees which Mr L is required to pay. It also reduces the likelihood of there being 
any problems calculating interest on mortgage arrears, should the mortgage account fall into 
arrears.
Ive looked at what the investigator has said about the expenses, fees and interest in the 
sub-accounts, and I confirm that I agree with her that the correct rate of interest has been 
applied to each.
Ive taken note that Mr L has said that if his complaint isnt upheld, he will be contacting his 
MP and the media. But I have to reach my decision on the basis of the evidence, and if the 
evidence doesnt lead me to find in Mr Ls favour, I cannot allow myself to be swayed or to 
have my impartiality compromised by the possibility of external involvement. Ive given very 
careful consideration to everything Mr L and Landmark have said. And, having done so, Im 
unable to find that Landmark has done anything wrong.
I appreciate this is not the outcome Mr L wanted. I can see from what hes told us that Mr L 
feels very aggrieved with Landmark and its predecessor businesses, NRAM and Northern 
Rock. The concerns Mr L has about his dissatisfaction with the corporate dealings of these 
businesses are outside my remit, but I see he has raised his concerns with the regulator in 
any event. I have no doubt Mr L feels very strongly about those matters but theyre not 
issues I can comment on as they dont fall within our jurisdiction.
In addition to the mortgage debt, Mr L now also owes Landmark approx. £24,500 in relation 
to expenses, fees and interest which Landmark has paid out since the mortgage began. The 
mortgage has about eight years left of its term, and this will need to be repaid by the time the 
mortgage has reached the end of its term. Mr L still has time to put in place a repayment 
strategy for these fees and expenses. 
But if Mr L wants to contest liability for the county court judgments and apply in the courts to 
have them set aside, I would suggest he takes legal advice from a solicitor before doing so.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman