DRN-1619017
The complaint 
Mr P complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance ('PPI') 
to him alongside a store card in 1997. 
As I said above, I know the credit Mr P applied for was a store card. But AXA is responsible 
for complaints like this about those cards. So to keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA for the 
rest of this decision. 
Background
Mr P opened his store card account in January 1997. The PPI policy was added in 
September 1997 before being cancelled in 2003.  In total, Mr P paid PPI premiums of 
£191.81. 
Mr P complained to this service because he strongly believed PPI had been mis-sold, and 
he thought he had been unfairly treated. Our adjudicator didnt think the matter should be 
upheld. Mr P disagreed with that view and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
The first thing Ive thought about is how this policy came to be sold to Mr P. Mr P told us he 
couldnt remember. Thats not surprising given that it was sold around 23 years ago.  AXA 
said Mr P bought the policy over the telephone when his store card was already open. 
Looking at the dates, I think thats probably right. The PPI was added around nine months 
after the credit started. If PPI had been sold in store when he applied for the card, I would 
have expected the cover to have started more or less straightaway. It seems most likely that 
AXA sold this cover to Mr P by contacting him directly afterwards or when Mr P contacted it 
for something else. 
Ive considered whether Mr P would have known the PPI was optional and he didnt have to 
buy it if he didnt want it. As the cover was sold some time after the store card account was 
opened, I think he would have known it wasnt a condition of him being approved for the 
card. And I think he must have agreed to buy it  otherwise he would have questioned what 
the premiums were for when they appeared as a new charge on his statements. 
When it sold PPI to Mr P, AXA had to give Mr P enough information about the cover so he 
could decide for himself whether it was right for his needs. That information had to be clear, 
fair and not misleading. 
Without a recording of the sales call, I cant know what AXA told Mr P. So I think its possible 
that it didnt tell him everything it should have done. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I have to also think about what Mr P would have done if 
AXA had given him all the relevant information. To help me decide on that point, Ive looked 
at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought carefully about what he told 
us about his personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if Mr P had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of his outstanding balance 
would have been repaid for every month he was out of work up to a maximum of 12 months. 
Mr P told us that he had less than three months sick pay from work if he became unwell. And 
he didnt have any other way of making his repayments if he lost his job. So the PPI would 
have lasted for longer than his existing means. 
Mr P told us he was fit and healthy when he bought the PPI policy. So I dont think he would 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual about his wider circumstances that would have stopped him from 
being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
I know Mr P feels hard done by in respect of this PPI policy. But looking at all the information 
in front of me, I think PPI could have been helpful at what would have no doubt been a very 
stressful time for Mr P if he had lost his job. With all of that in mind, I dont think he would 
have acted differently even if AXA had told him everything it should have done about the 
cover. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr P, but it follows that I havent upheld his complaint and I dont 
need to tell AXA to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman