DRN-4041443
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy Starling Bank Limited will not refund the money she lost as the result of a 
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, I will only 
provide a brief overview here. Miss P fell victim to a safe account scam on 17 September 
2022 and made four card payments (£877.90, £1,203.60, £1,203.92, £266.50) to a new 
account in her name at a money transfer platform, as the scammer instructed her to. From 
there the funds were moved to the scammer. Miss P was able to transfer back £465.70 from 
her account at the money transfer platform and she has confirmed a separate faster 
payment for £868.83 was returned, so her total claimed loss is £2,217.09.  
Miss P says Starling must refund her in full as it subscribes to the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code and she qualifies for a refund under this code. She is 
unhappy that none of the transactions were picked up as unusual by Starlings system. This 
loss has caused her severe distress.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ps complaint. She said the payments were not covered 
by the CRM code as they were card payments and it only covers faster payments. The 
payments were authorised by Miss P and she did not find Starling ought to have thought 
Miss P was at risk of financial harm, and blocked any of the payments, given her account 
history.  
Miss P disagreed with this assessment. She said the transactions were out of character and 
the CRM code states firms must be able to identify payments that are at higher risk of being 
an APP (authorised push payments) scam. Had Starling intervened it would have prevented 
her loss. She said her case does not meet any of the CRM codes exceptions to 
reimbursement of losses.
A second investigator reviewed Miss Ps case. He reached the same conclusion, and 
explained in more detail why the CRM code is not applicable here and why he agreed that 
the payments were not unusual enough for Starling to have intervened.
Miss P asked for an ombudsmans review and so the case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Miss Ps complaint. I have carefully considered all the 
comments she has submitted and I mean no discourtesy by this, but, in keeping with our role 
as an informal dispute resolution service and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the 
points I find to be material to the outcome of her complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss P made and authorised the payments. Miss P knew why she 
was making the payments. At the stage she was making these payments, she believed
her Starling account had been compromised and so she needed to move the money to 
protect it. I dont dispute Miss P was scammed and she wasnt making payments for the 
reason she thought she was, but I remain satisfied the transactions were authorised under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Starling has an obligation to follow Miss Ps instructions. So in the
first instance Miss P is presumed liable for her loss. But there are other factors that must be 
taken into account.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. This means I think that Starling should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
Certain scams are also covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model code. Miss P is 
correct that Starling is a member of this code. But as the investigators explained that code 
covers push payments. Here, Miss P paid by card using a mobile payment service and this 
means her transactions are classified as pull payments. So the principles of the CRM code 
do not apply.
But this does not change Starlings obligations to work to protect its account holders from 
fraud, amongst other risks. This means I have to decide whether the bank ought to have 
intervened and paused any of the payments until it had made direct contact with Miss P. I 
dont find that it should have. 
To reach this conclusion I have considered the value of the transactions; the destination (an 
account in Miss Ps own name); and Miss Ps account history that shows payments of similar 
amounts in recent months, as well as other repeated uses of the mobile payment service on 
the same day. Plus, her account balance did at times drop to similarly low levels. There is a 
balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments. So, in the round, I cannot fairly conclude that 
Starling ought to have intervened in any of the transactions or to have reasonably suspected 
Miss P was the potential victim of financial harm. 
I have then considered whether Starling ought to have done more to help Miss P recover the 
payments. It could have looked to raise the dispute as a chargeback. In certain 
circumstances card issuers (so here Starling) can request refunds from goods/service 
providers by raising a chargeback claim  but theres no obligation on an issuer to do this. 
This system has rules which means there are only certain grounds under which a 
chargeback can succeed. So in this case I need to decide whether Starling acted fairly and 
reasonably in its decision not to present a chargeback on behalf of Miss P. The payments went to an account in Miss Ps name at the money transfer platform, and the 
scammer was not party to those transactions. Miss P would not have had a valid chargeback 
claim against the money transfer platform as it provided the services as offered. And it has 
been established that the transactions were authorised by Miss P. The subsequent transfer 
to a different account in the scammers control would not support an effective chargeback 
dispute, so I dont think Miss P had a valid chargeback claim here. It follows I find it was fair 
and reasonable for Starling not to attempt a chargeback claim.
This means I am not instructing Starling to refund any money to Miss P. This is a difficult 
decision to make, Im sorry Miss P lost a considerable amount of money which was very 
distressing for her. I can understand why she would like to be compensated for her loss. And 
I do accept Miss P has fallen victim to a sophisticated scam. But I can only consider whether 
the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible for what 
happened. For the reasons set out above I do not find Starling can be held liable in the 
circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman