DRN-3628401
The complaint
Mr T complains that CB Payments Ltd wont refund money he was tricked into transferring to 
a fraudster.
What happened
Mr T became involved with what he believed was a genuine investment firm. Unfortunately, 
he was actually dealing with fraudsters. He deposited funds into a CB Payments electronic 
money account, before converting those funds into cryptocurrency. This credited a 
cryptocurrency account held in his own name which was provided by a separate entity  
Coinbase Europe Limited. From that account he sent his cryptocurrency to a blockchain 
address presumably controlled by the fraudster. In total, Mr T lost over £8,000.
In April 2021 he reported the matter to CB Payments. Coinbase (responding on behalf of 
both CB Payments and Coinbase Europe) responded to his complaint. It said that it had no 
connection with the fraudulent trading platform, was unable to recover his funds and, 
because hed made the payments himself, had no liability to him. 
Mr T referred the matter to our service. Coinbase said our service didnt have the power to 
consider the complaint as it did not relate to the regulated electronic money services 
provided by CB Payments, but rather the unregulated cryptocurrency activity provided by 
Coinbase Europe.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. They were satisfied that parts of Mr Ts 
complaint did relate to the electronic money activities provided by CB Payments  in 
particular those which related to whether CB Payments failed to identify suspicious activity 
on his account and carry out adequate due diligence at account opening. However, the 
investigator concluded that CB Payments couldnt have reasonably believed that Mr T was 
at risk of financial harm from fraud, so they didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld.
CB Payments had no further comments, but Mr T disagreed. In summary, he said:
- Money laundering law requires that both the source and destination of the funds are 
checked by CB Payments. Even if CB Payments checked both the source of the 
funds and his identity documents, this was not sufficient.
- Instead, in Mr Ts view, they were required to check what he intended to do with the 
money and specifically the name of the company he intended to ultimately invest it 
with. Had they done this, his loss would have been prevented. 
- CB Payments failed to identify unusual and out of character transactions  in 
particular the significant sum which he transferred as a new customer and amateur 
trader.
- CB Payments have also violated a code of conduct designed to combat money 
laundering.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that our service cannot consider the actions of 
Coinbase Europe, so I dont need to comment on this further. Neither is it in dispute that Mr 
T authorised the transactions on his CB Payments account. So, the starting point is that he, 
rather than CB Payments, is responsible for them.
However, in line with good industry practice, I agree that CB Payments should monitor its 
customers accounts for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. 
This should include monitoring account activity for transactions that are unusual or out of 
character. In some circumstances, it should take additional steps, or carry out additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Its relevant here that Mr Ts account was a new one. As such there was little activity from 
which CB Payments could have established what was typical activity for Mr T. Its also the 
case that CB Payments accounts are only really designed for one purpose  to purchase, or 
receive the proceeds of sale from, cryptocurrency  which is exactly what Mr T was doing. 
And, I have to take into account that the purchase of cryptocurrency from Mr Ts account 
was, in effect, a transfer between two accounts under his control.
All of these factors mean that it would be difficult for CB Payments to identify the fact that Mr 
T was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Theres also no dispute that the source of Mr Ts funds was entirely legitimate and that he 
opened the account using genuine identity documents. So, theres nothing about the account 
opening that I think ought to have given CB Payments cause for concern either. 
Turning to Mr Ts arguments, Im afraid that I cant agree that the relevant regulations (or 
best practice)  whether in relation to money laundering or otherwise  place the obligations 
on CB Payments that Mr T suggests. In effect he argues that it should have a fairly detailed 
conversation with every account holder  establishing their level of experience and their 
exact intentions in relation to their deposits. Im afraid no such general obligation exists and I 
cant fairly say that CB Payments should have done this, given how onerous such a 
requirement would be. Its also important to mention that the aims of anti-money laundering 
regulation arent necessarily aligned with preventing consumers falling victim to scams.  
Mr T points to a code of conduct which provides guidance on money laundering to UK firms. 
Hes quoted a number of paragraphs from that code, that Ive considered carefully. The 
quoted sections refer to the specific risks of cryptocurrency transactions (transactions that, in 
this case, our service has no power to consider). But, even if I was to accept that these 
sections also apply to CB Payments because of their close association with Coinbase 
Europe, theres nothing within them that supports Mr Ts assertions about the enquiries he 
feels CB Payments were obligated to make, instead they simply point to money laundering 
risk factors associated with cryptocurrency and general obligations on staff to detect 
suspicious activity (which Ive already accepted apply to CB Payments). 
So, I dont think CB Payments acted unfairly by not picking up on the activity as suspicious 
and, as Mr Ts funds were ultimately sent to a blockchain address controlled by the 
fraudsters, CB Payments could not have recovered them.Im sorry that Mr T has lost out to a cruel scam, but I dont think CB Payments have made a 
mistake in rejecting his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman