DRN-3312025
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Whitechurch Securities Limited didnt give them the financial 
advice it should have when it received their investments from a previous adviser. 
What happened
Whitechurch purchased some assets from Mr and Mrs Ws previous adviser in 2013. This 
included the rights to trail commission being paid for investments the previous adviser had 
sold to Mr and Mrs W. 
That commission continued to be paid, but there doesnt ever seem to have been a formal 
service agreement with Whitechurch. Whitechurch has shown us a few letters it sent to Mr 
and Mrs W over the years, offering them an advisory service. But Mr and Mrs W have said 
they didnt receive these. 
Mr and Mrs W do seem to have been aware of the change in adviser though. In 2017, Mrs W 
contacted Whitechurch to ask about making a withdrawal from one of her investments. 
In 2020, Mr and Mrs W decided to seek advice from a new adviser. They complained to 
Whitechurch that they didnt feel theyd received the service they should have over the 
previous seven years. 
In response, Whitechurch explained that although it had received commission, that didnt 
automatically create an advisory relationship between it and Mr and Mrs W. But Whitechurch 
noticed that the money it had received from investments held with a particular company had 
included a fee for providing advice. Whitechurch calculated what had been paid over the 
years, and refunded that to Mr and Mrs W. 
Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to us, as they felt Whitechurch needed to pay a lot 
more compensation. Specifically, they felt that if theyd had the advice theyd paid for from 
Whitechurch, their investments would have more than doubled over the years. 
Our investigator considered the complaint, but felt Whitechurch had already done enough to 
put things right here. She explained how regulatory rules about trail commission set no 
automatic expectation for Whitechurch to have provided advice when there was no 
agreement to do so. And she explained how some other rules said all that was needed was 
for any advice fee received to be refunded to the customer. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept that view, so the matters come to me for a final decision. They 
still feel that they should have been receiving advice from Whitechurch. And they feel the 
fees Whitechurch received extended beyond the period it refunded. Theyve also said they 
feel the payments Whitechurch received for their other investments included a fee for advice, 
and should be refunded too. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Whitechurch has already taken reasonable steps to put things 
right in this case. So Im not going to direct it to do anything beyond that. 
It seems to be agreed there was no direct service agreement between Whitechurch and Mr 
and Mrs W. So the question is really about whether Whitechurchs purchase of the assets 
that entitled them to the commissions and fees being paid by Mr and Mrs W carried with it a 
duty to provide a particular type of service to them.
I cant see weve had any documents that confirm Mr and Mrs Ws belief that all of the 
commission they were paying was to provide an ongoing advisory service. Trail commission 
doesnt always mean such advice will be provided  there needs to be an agreement for that 
to be the case. So Im not going to automatically conclude that the payment of commission 
means there was also an agreement to provide advice. Or that Whitechurch were aware of  
or agreed to take on  that duty when they made the asset purchase that entitled them to 
receive the commission. 
Trail commission was stopped for products sold after 2012. But Mr and Mrs Ws investments 
seem to pre-date that change. So it doesnt break any rules for Whitechurch to have gone on 
receiving commission here. And with no agreement to provide advice in return for that 
commission, I find its reasonable Whitechurch didnt give any to Mr and Mrs W for those 
investments. 
The investments that included a specific fee for advice are different. It seems to be agreed 
Mr and Mrs W were paying for a service there that they didnt receive. Whitechurch has now 
refunded that fee because of that. That makes sense to me. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W say the fees were paid for longer than Whitechurch calculated. 
But Id expect Mr and Mrs W to be able to show their evidence of that to Whitechurch, and 
there wont be much argument about refunding any extra thats due. Whitechurch doesnt 
dispute that the adviser fee that was paid prior to the complaint should be refunded.
But the issue here is whether Whitechurchs failure to provide the advice it was being paid to 
give has caused a loss for Mr and Mrs W. Two factors stop me saying it has. 
Firstly, Whitechurch offered  in letters sent to the correct address  to give Mr and Mrs W 
some advice. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs W have denied receiving those letters, I cant 
see any evidence that Whitechurch are responsible for them not arriving. Having sent letters 
to engage with Mr and Mrs W, the lack of response could reasonably have been interpreted 
by Whitechurch as Mr and Mrs W not being interested in an advisory service from it. 
And secondly, theres an absence of evidence showing Mr and Mrs W seeking more advice 
from Whitechurch about their investments. They were aware they had the investments, and 
they appear to have been aware  at least by 2017  of Whitechurchs involvement with 
them. But the lack of a complaint at that point suggests Mr and Mrs W either had no 
expectation of  or no wish for  advice from Whitechurch. 
The lack of response to Whitechurchs offers of an advisory service, plus the absence of any 
requests for such advice, is consistent with Mr and Mrs W not expecting or wanting any 
advice from Whitechurch. Had Whitechurch noticed it was receiving a fee to provide advice 
and raised this with Mr and Mrs W, I find it more likely than not the fee would have stopped 
being paid, rather than there being an agreement advice would be provided for that fee. 
With that in mind, the refund already agreed and paid by Whitechurch does enough to put Mr and Mrs W in the position they would have been in, if the service had been reasonable. I find 
Whitechurch doesnt need to do more to resolve this complaint, so Im not going to uphold it. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman