DRN-3921899
The complaint
Ms A complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) has unfairly 
handled a claim for rent arrears.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Ms A owns a property that is let to tenants. On 16 March 2021 Ms A was informed 
the tenant had fallen into arrears as their income was impacted by Covid-19.
Ms A says the rules at the time provided additional protection for tenants, and in line 
with Government advice she reached an agreement with the tenant to pay any 
outstanding arrears by 16 July 2021. And if arrears werent paid by this date, she 
says it was understood she would seek possession of the property.
The arrears werent repaid  so Ms A contacted DAS on 30 July 2021 to make a 
claim under her rent arrears cover. DAS considered this and sought prospects of 
success from a firm of solicitors, who agreed it did.
Across September and November 2021 DAS made payments to Ms A covering the 
rent arrears between March  September 2021 which totalled £11,500.
In December 2021 DAS reconsidered the claim, saying it had settled it incorrectly. It 
said the policy required a policyholder to notify an insurer within 90 days of the date 
they shouldve known about the insured incident.
DAS said the 90 days began in March 2021, meaning Ms A had reported the matter 
136 days after the incident, so it declined the claim. DAS said it would not look to 
recoup the payments already made. And it awarded £200 in compensation for delays 
and communication issues.
Ms A brought the complaint to this Service. She said the compensation was not in 
line with the value of her time and DAS should pay the remaining rent arrears.
Our Investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said while Ms A 
hadnt adhered to the 90-day requirement, DASs position wasnt prejudiced by this 
inaction when taking into account the Government rules at the time around evictions. 
She directed DAS to pay a further two months arrears plus 8% simple interest.
Ms A disagreed, saying the arrears had continued until February 2022, so she was 
owed £11,767.67 taking into account sums already paid by DAS. And she provided a 
notice of surrender from 1 February 2022 which showed when the tenant left.
DAS also disagreed, saying it couldve taken various steps to minimise the claim had 
it been informed of the loss earlier.
Our Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She expanded on her 
proposed redress calculation and said she still wasnt satisfied DAS position had 
been prejudiced by Ms As late notification.
So, the matter was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I issued my 
provisional thoughts on the matter on 10 January 2023 explaining why I didnt intend 
to uphold the complaint. Ive included an extract of this below.
Ms As policy covers her for rent arrears in the event of tenant default. This 
says DAS will pay rent arrears for a specific period, subject to certain 
requirements.
The policy general exclusions are clear that a policyholder will not be covered 
for any claim reported to DAS more than 90 days after the date they should 
have known about the insured incident. This is where the crux of this dispute 
arises.
So the first thing I have to consider, is whether Ms A has met this 
requirement. DAS states the arrears began in March 2021. This isnt disputed 
by Ms A, but she states the agreement she made between her, the tenant 
and estate agent to have any arrears cleared by 16 July 2021 should 
supersede the March 2021 arrears and should be the starting point for the 90 
days timeframe.
Having carefully reviewed all of the information provided, Im satisfied the 
negotiation or agreement to catch up on the arrears was an attempt to simply 
resolve the matter of the ongoing arrears that began in March 2021. So Im 
satisfied March 2021 is the time Ms A became aware an insured incident had 
taken place  the start of the arrears she sought under the tenant default 
peril in the policy.
So, Im satisfied the exclusion here has been applied in line with the policy 
terms. Ive gone on to consider whether DAS has applied this fairly in the 
circumstances, taking into account whether this delay had impacted its 
position.
Due to Government Covid-19 rules, between November 2020 and 31 May 
2021 it was not possible to deliver a notice of eviction. From what Ive seen, 
these temporary rules were lifted on 1 June 2021. Had Ms A informed DAS of 
the tenants arrears within 90 days of 16 March, it seems DAS wouldve 
known of the circumstances around mid-June 2021. Several weeks after the 
temporary rules around eviction came to an end.
Instead, Ms A notified DAS of the claim on 30 July 2021. Around six weeks 
after the 90 day policy requirement. DAS says within this time it couldve 
instructed a solicitor ready to act when possible and to provide guidance to 
Ms A about the matter, ensuring notice was served at the correct time. It also 
highlighted the notice wasnt served on the tenant until 2 September 2021.
Having thought about this, Im persuaded DAS position was impacted by the 
late notification. And Im in agreement it seems most likely that it couldve 
handled the matter more swiftly if it had been involved at an earlier stage  by 
appointing solicitors and providing advice as it has suggested.
I appreciate Ms A may have taken the steps she did  reaching an agreement 
with her tenant  in the interests of her tenant, but this didnt halt her 
obligations as a policyholder to contact her insurer. So, overall Im satisfied 
DAS ability to provide advice, and limit the claim has been prejudiced by Ms 
As delay in raising the claim within 90 days as she should have done.
For these reasons Im minded to reject this complaint and direct DAS to do 
nothing further as Im satisfied it has applied the 90 day notification exclusion 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this claim.Ms A also complained about the service provided by DAS. DAS 
acknowledged failings in this regard, agreeing it had caused delays of around 
a week, as well as poor communication and failing to return several calls. And 
it awarded a sum of £200 to Ms A for this.
Ive reviewed the claim in full, and Im in agreement DAS hasnt met its 
obligations here and couldve handled this claim better than it did. And I can 
see how this wouldve added unnecessary frustration to Ms A at a challenging 
time. 
Ms A has indicated the sum is not reflective of the value of her time given her 
profession. This isnt a factor that this Service would consider when deciding 
compensation as we will look at the impact on the individual. But in any case, 
taking into account the sum it has already paid alongside its agreement to not 
seek to recoup any of the funds it paid towards the claim already, Im satisfied 
it has already provided a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
Both parties were given until 24 January 2023 to provide any further comments or evidence. 
DAS wrote to say it had nothing further to add, Ms A didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive been provided with no new arguments or evidence to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman