DRN-4197079
The complaint
Mr S complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr S applied for a loan with L2G. L2G approved the application and gave 
Mr S a loan for £300 repayable over 18 months at £67.96 per month.
Mr S complained that L2G lent to him irresponsibly.
L2G didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr S.
Mr S remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the information gathered from the 
checks showed that the loan was affordable for Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, L2G needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mr S could sustainably repay what was being lent to him.
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to carry out. But lenders are required to have 
regard to things such as the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ive looked at the checks completed by L2G. L2G gathered information about Mr Ss income 
and expenditure. It obtained payslips to verify the income, It also carried out a credit check to 
see what other unsecured debt Mr S had.
Based on what Ive seen. I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate. Ive gone on 
to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
Ive looked at the information gathered by L2G. It appeared that Mr S had sufficient monthly 
disposable income to afford the loan repayment of £67.96 based on weekly repayments of 
£16.31.
I can see from Mr Ss credit search that he had defaulted on some other credit accounts. 
Because of this, I think it wouldve been proportionate for L2G to carry out further checks to 
gain a  more detailed understanding of Mr Ss financial circumstances.
I cant be certain of what further checks L2G wouldve done. But I think a review of Mr Ss 
bank statements wouldve provided information about his overall financial circumstances.
Ive reviewed the information provided by Mr S and Ive thought about whether L2G wouldve 
done anything differently if it had seen this. Having looked at it, I dont think L2G wouldve 
reached a different decision. Theres nothing in the information to suggest that Mr S wouldnt 
be able to sustainably repay the loan.
For these reasons Im unable to say that L2G lent irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman