DRN-3974027
The complaint
Miss B and Mr C have complained about delays and poor customer service from Clydesdale 
Bank Plc in relation to a mortgage application.
To settle the complaint Miss B and Mr C would like Clydesdale to pay for their financial 
losses which they estimate at no less than £28,000, as well as substantial damages for the 
stress and upset they say they suffered due to the delays.
Mr C has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of himself and Miss B.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 16 February 2023, in which the investigator set out a 
detailed timeline of events. All parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no need for me to 
repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. 
In addition, Clydesdale has acknowledged there were delays, so I dont need to analyse the 
events in detail in order to determine if there has been any error; all I need to decide is what 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Miss B and Mr C being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my 
summary of what happened quite brief.
In December 2019 Miss B and Mr C applied to Clydesdale to port a mortgage interest rate 
product onto a new mortgage. The application was non-standard and (as detailed in the 
investigators letter of 16 February 2023) it was necessary for Clydesdale to make further 
enquiries and obtain more information before it was able to approve the application. It wasnt 
until July 2020 that the application completed.
After Miss B and Mr C complained, Clydesdale acknowledged that the application had taken 
longer than anticipated. The bank explained that this was partly due to the impact of Covid 
on its operations. But the bank also clarified that, because this wasnt a standard application, 
it required more detailed consideration, in order for the bank to determine whether it was 
able to make an exception to its lending criteria in this particular case. Clydesdale offered 
compensation of £200 for any trouble and upset caused. Clydesdale also refunded the 
mortgage valuation fee. 
Dissatisfied with Clydesdales response, Miss B and Mr C raised the complaint with our 
service. An investigator looked at what had happened but was satisfied that, overall, the 
compensation of £200 was fair and reasonable. The investigator explained that it wasnt our 
role to punish businesses, and although she acknowledged Mr Cs strength of feeling, she 
didnt think Clydesdale needed to do anything further.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings. He 
reiterated the points he had already made about why he thought Clydesdale was at fault, 
and re-submitted his claim for damages.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Clydesdale has already accepted that compensation is warranted, so the only issue I need 
to focus on is whether the £200 offered by the bank is sufficient, or whether further 
compensation should be paid. In this regard, I will explain that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service doesnt award damages, in the way that a court would. Nor do we compensate 
consumers at the hourly rate they would be paid by their employment for any time spent on a 
complaint.
Clydesdale is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Clydesdale makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending 
assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary 
matters for Clydesdales own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
This wasnt a straightforward mortgage application; Clydesdale was presented with an 
application that was outside its lending criteria. As a result, the application needed to be 
considered outside the banks normal processes,. This required further information to be 
provided to enable the bank to determine whether or not an exception should be made in 
order to approve the application. 
Clydesdale has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that 
it was reasonable for Clydesdale to request further information, particularly as the bank was 
being asked to go outside its standard lending criteria to approve this mortgage.
I fully understand that this was frustrating for Mr C, who (from he has told us) felt there was 
no risk to Clydesdale in approving the application, given his financial position. But its up to 
Clydesdale to determine its own exposure to risk, and the extent to which it is prepared to 
make an exception to its standard lending criteria.
After careful consideration of everything that happened, I think that there were some 
customer service issues as a result of the pandemic  which was an exceptional situation outside the control of Clydesdale. Overall, I think the £200 compensation offered by 
Clydesdale is fair, reasonable and proportionate, in all the circumstances of this case. This 
means that I do not think Clydesdale should pay any further compensation.
I appreciate that Mr C might not agree; if he and Miss B decide not to accept my final 
decision, they will be free to pursue their claim against Clydesdale in court, should they wish 
to do so. I would suggest they take advice from a solicitor before pursuing any legal action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman