DRN-1946530
The complaint
Ms H says PDL Finance Limited - trading as Mr Lender - irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Ms H between           
April 2014 and January 2018. A summary of Ms Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 14/04/2014 25/07/2014 1 £200.00 £235.00
2 25/07/2014 26/11/2014 6 £500.00 £233.33
3 09/12/2014 25/09/2015 6 £500.00 £264.33
Break in lending
4 04/07/2017 26/01/2018 6 £200.00 £73.33
5 26/01/2018 Outstanding 6 £400.00 £165.86
Ms Hs complaint was reviewed by two of our adjudicators. The first adjudicator partly upheld 
the complaint and thought loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been given as they thought Ms Hs 
borrowing behaviour was an indication that she wasnt managing her money. Mr Lender 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
Whilst the complaint was waiting for a decision, another of our adjudicators reviewed the 
complaint again but didnt think any of the loans should be upheld. They thought that whilst 
Mr Lender should have done further checks, as it wasnt clear what those checks would 
show, they couldnt say Mr Lender was wrong to lend to Ms H. 
We didnt hear back from Ms H but as the complaint was already waiting for an 
ombudsmans decision, it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Both adjudicators didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint about loans 1, 4 and 5. Ms H didnt 
respond to either set of findings. As there no longer appears to be a dispute about these 
loans, I wont be making any further findings on them. This just leaves loans 2 and 3 for me 
to consider. 
Mr Lender has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Ms H about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and at the time she applied for loan 2 she had a monthly income of £2,000. 
She also declared her outgoings were around £970. Mr Lender says it also searched Ms Hs 
credit file. Ive seen a copy of the findings and there werent any recent adverse entries like 
defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan was taken 
out. So, I dont think there was anything that would have prompted Mr Lender to do more 
checks. 
However, looking at loan 2 in isolation, it could be argued that a pattern was beginning to 
emerge which might suggest Ms H was struggling to repay her loans sustainably. Ms H 
struggled to repay loan 1 on time  she needed to rollover the repayment three times before 
she cleared the balance. Then loan 2 was taken out the same day she repaid loan 1 and 
was for a larger amount. 
So, based on this behaviour I think Mr Lender should have been looking to build a clearer 
picture than it did about Ms Hs finances before lending her this loan. Asking to see things 
such as her bank statements, or for copies of her payslips and/or bills. 
But, in saying this, Ms H hasnt provided this service with any information about her financial 
position at the time, such as bank statements or a credit file. So, without any further 
information, I can only conclude that while Mr Lenders checks didnt go far enough, I cant 
say an error has been made as I dont know whether it would have thought the loan was 
affordable for Ms H. Therefore, I cant say Mr Lender was wrong to have provided Ms H with 
loan 2. 
Like with loan 2, Mr Lender says it carried out checks before approving loan 3. Ms H 
confirmed she was employed and had a monthly income of £2,000. She also declared her 
outgoings were £955. Again, Mr Lender has provided a copy of the findings from the search it did on Ms Hs credit file and there werent any adverse entries. So, like with loan 2, there 
wasnt anything that ought to have prompted Mr Lender to do further checks. 
There was then nearly a two-week gap between Ms H repaying loan 2 and taking out loan 3 
and the amount she was borrowing didnt increase. Based on what Mr Lender would have 
been aware of at the time, I dont think at this point it would have been aware that Ms H was 
using the loan in an unsustainable manner. As such I cant say Mr Lender was wrong to 
provide loan 3 to Ms H either. 
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Ms H, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Hs complaint and make no award against PDL Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman