DRN-3761191
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the foreign exchange margin Barclays Bank UK PLC applied when 
her account was credited with a foreign currency.         
What happened
In August 2022, 14950.35 Swiss Francs were credited to Mrs Cs UK bank account with 
Barclays who converted it to GBP.
Mrs C noticed that in addition to the £6 commission charge Barclays applied a 2.75% margin 
on the conversion.
Mrs C complained to Barclays as she thinks this margin is extortionate. Also, she didnt know 
about the rate until it had been applied and couldnt see this was advertised. In addition, she 
was dissatisfied that it couldnt be explained by Barclays staff and also by the service 
provided by branch staff.
Mrs C complained to Barclays who offered her £40 compensation due to the service issues 
she experienced, however Mrs C is dissatisfied about the amount of money she lost due to 
the exchange rate margin.
Mrs C complained to our service; however, our investigator didnt uphold her complaint.
As Mrs C remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
Firstly, its not unusual for banks to apply margins as foreign exchange rates are constantly 
changing and risks are involved. Also, there are commercial considerations and Im satisfied 
that Barclays have been transparent here with their foreign exchange rates available on their 
website. 
I appreciate Mrs C feels she had no choice in the matter as the money was credited to her 
account by a third party. However, Barclays exchange rate was accepted on the completion 
of a transaction which credited funds to Mrs Cs account. And, as stated by our investigator, 
this meant the opportunity for either the third party or Mrs C to look elsewhere for a more 
competitive exchange rate was lost when making the transaction. 
Whilst I understand Mrs Cs frustration here, whatever the method of payment, it is likely  
Mrs C wouldve faced a foreign exchange conversion rate with a margin applied and I cant 
see any evidence that Barclays applied a margin that is either incorrect or unfair.
I appreciate Mrs C had a poor experience in getting to speak with Barclays and getting 
information on exchange rates and margins. However, as mentioned above, if Mrs C was 
dissatisfied with the exchange rate and wanted to make enquiries or shop around, the time 
to do so wouldve been prior to the transaction taking place. As the currency was paid to a 
Barclays sterling account, Barclays had a responsibility to process the transaction and credit 
Mrs Cs account at the exchange rate of their earliest processing time. 
Furthermore, regarding foreign currency transactions, I can see that the terms & conditions 
of Mrs Cs account state:
Its converted into sterling based on the Barclays reference exchange rate, to which we add 
a charge (margin). 
So, I think Barclays have been transparent in both their terms and conditions and invoice. 
Also, they have recognised and addressed the service issues Mrs C experienced by 
providing a fair and reasonable amount of compensation.
In summary, I do understand Mrs Cs frustration as she didnt expect to pay a foreign 
exchange margin and thinks she has received less than she shouldve. But Barclays have 
acted in line with the account terms and used the exchange rate applicable when the Swiss 
Francs were paid in. As I havent found Barclays made an error and Im satisfied it acted 
fairly, Im not telling them to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman