DRN-3972269
The complaint
Mr C complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined his motor 
insurance claim. 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr C made a claim, for the theft of his car, against his Advantage motor 
insurance policy. He had taken his car to a couple of local garages for non-accident related 
repairs. The second garage said it was unable to make the repair, but found, on an internet 
auction site, details of an outfit advertising the specialist work required. I refer to this outfit as 
X. The garage spoke to X and told Mr C it seemed suitable for the work. Mr C called X 
himself. They agreed a price, he paid a deposit and the car was collected. 
After a couple of months there had been no progress with the car. Mr C told X he wanted to 
collect it. After an unsuccessful visit to Xs site he contacted local police. They told him X is 
fraudulent outfit that doesnt return cars to their owners. 
Advantage declined the claim. Its said Mr C failed to take reasonable care to protect the car 
from loss or damage. It explained the circumstances surrounding the theft of the car met an 
exclusion in the policy  youre not covered for loss or damage if someone claiming to be a 
buyer or agent takes possession of your car deceitfully. 
In response to a complaint, Advantage continued to refuse to pay the claim. It referred to the 
exclusion again  saying a pretend agent of a third party had deceitfully obtained 
possession of Mr Cs car. Mr C wasnt satisfied so came to this service. To resolve his 
complaint he wants Advantage to settle his claim. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She didnt agree Mr C had failed to take 
reasonable care of the car. She felt it unfair for Advantage to refer to the exclusion to decline 
the claim. She said whilst there many have been deception involved the perpetrator hadnt 
claimed to be a buyer or agent. So she recommended Advantage pay the claim, plus simple 
interest at 8%. She also said it should give Mr C £200 compensation. 
Mr C accepted the outcome, but Advantage didnt. It said the exclusion should apply as the 
thief was an agent of X  and Mr C had failed to protect the car from loss or damage. So the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy covers his car against loss or damage caused by theft. Advantage accepts a 
theft occurred  for example in its claim decline letter it says, We take the view that the 
circumstances surrounding the theft of your car. So I dont need to consider if what 
happened should be treated as a theft for the purposes of the claim. So Ive considered if 
Advantage has shown its fair and reasonable for it to decline the claim based on the 
exclusion set out above, and/or the reasonable care term. 
Advantages made various attempts to fit the circumstances to the exclusion. For example 
its said various individuals, including the recovery driver collecting the car and someone 
from X that communicated with Mr C, were an agent of X  or were claiming to be an agent.   
Ive considered these but ultimately, I dont feel the exclusion fits with the circumstances. It 
talks of someone, taking possession deceitfully, who is claiming to be a buyer or agent. In 
my opinion the exclusion is intended to apply to sale situations  i.e. where someone 
pretends to be a buyer or an agent that will buy the car  or sell it on behalf of Mr C. So 
agent is intended to mean some form of sales agent. As far as Im aware, X didnt claim to 
be a buyer or seller. There wasnt any discussion of the potential sale of Mr Cs car to X 
via X as an agent. 
I dont accept the exclusion was intended to cover, as Advantage has interpreted it, the 
involvement of any conceivable form of agent (i.e. any person that acts on behalf of another 
person or group). In any event Im not persuaded anyone involved in the theft was claiming 
to be an agent. The person Mr C spoke to, at X, wasnt claiming to be an agent of X  he 
was, as far as Im aware, X itself. So its not fair or reasonable for Advantage to rely on this 
exclusion to decline the claim. 
Advantage has also referred to a reasonable care term to decline the claim  you or any 
person in charge of your Car, must protect it from damage and loss. Ive considered the 
relevant case law (Sofi v Prudential)  its for Advantage to show Mr C acted in a way that 
amounted to recklessness. That being that he recognised a risk but took no measures at all 
or measures he knew to be inadequate to avoid it. 
The payment of a deposit to a personal account is perhaps unusual. But Mr Cs own garage 
had found X, informing him it seemed suitable. Hed spoken to X on the phone himself. So 
he had reason to be reassured about X. Theres nothing to suggest X and Mr Cs garage are 
connected in anyway either. Theres always a risk involved in handing possession of a 
valuable item to someone. But overall Im not persuaded Mr C was aware of a particularly 
heightened risk of his car being stolen by X and then failed to take measures he knew to be 
inadequate. So Advantage hasnt persuaded me Mr C acted recklessly. 
So its not fair or reasonable for Advantage to rely on the reasonable care term to decline the 
claim either. Im not aware of any further reasons for Advantage to decline the claim, so it 
should settle the claim in line with the policy terms. As Mr Cs been unfairly without the 
funds, Advantage should add simple interest, at 8%, from the date of decline to the date of 
settlement.  
I agree with the investigator that the decline has caused Mr C unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. So to recognise that Advantage will need to pay him £200 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Advantage Insurance Company Limited is required to: 
settle Mr Cs claim in line with the policy terms  adding simple interest, at 8%, from 
the date of the decline to the date of settlement* and
pay him £200 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman