DRN-3583887
The complaint
A company I will refer to as W, complains about how QBE UK Limited settled its business 
interruption insurance claim, made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary. Additionally, whilst other parties have 
been involved in the relevant correspondence, for the sake of simplicity I will just refer to W 
and QBE. 
W operates as a dentistry and held an industry specific commercial insurance policy 
underwritten by QBE. The policy offered cover for a number of areas of risk, including for 
business interruption. In March 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, Ws business 
was interrupted and it claimed for its losses. 
QBE initially declined the claim and it wasnt until late 2021 that it agreed the policy provided 
relevant cover and a settlement was arranged. W was unhappy with the length of time QBE 
had taken to settle the claim. QBE agreed that there had been some avoidable delays whilst 
it considered a potential underinsurance issue and offered W £250 compensation for this. 
But said that it had been necessary to wait for the clarity provided by the Supreme Court in 
The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 (the 
FCA test case), the judgment of which was handed down in January 2021. W remained 
unsatisfied and brought its complaint to the Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He recognised the difficulties 
insurers may have faced given the novel nature of the situation. However, he felt that the 
decision QBE made, in April 2020, to decline the claim was ultimately incorrect. And that as 
a result of this, W had been left without a settlement of a valid claim for some time. The 
Investigator felt that QBE should pay interest on the amount of the award from the date it 
ought reasonably to have been paid until it was settled. 
W accepted this view, but QBE did not. It said its initial decision was taken on the basis that, 
at that time, the relevant legal test was the but for test. So, it felt it had not made a mistake 
by rejecting the claim when it was submitted. QBE also said that the FCA has issued 
guidance saying an insurer could wait until the test case had been resolved before making a 
decision on a claim. And that to provide customers, such as W, who had made a claim 
without waiting for the FCA test case to conclude with an interest payment, was unfair on 
those customers who did wait. QBE therefore asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
Following this, our Investigator confirmed that W took out a Bounce Back Loan in 
May 2020, with W initially saying this was taken out because it had established at the time 
that QBE were not going to meet the claim. The Investigator said that this meant QBE didnt 
have to pay the full interest recommended for the full period. W has since said that it would 
have taken out the loan regardless of whether the claim was paid because of uncertainty 
over the length of lockdown and that the decline forced money that would have been used 
for growth to be used to sustain the business. W was also unhappy the approach to 
compensation did not provide a punitive element or account for loss of growth relevant to the 
business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all of the submissions from the parties but have focussed this decision on 
what I consider to be the key issue. Largely speaking this complaint comes down to whether 
it is appropriate for QBE to compensate W for not having money it would otherwise have had 
if its claim had been settled at the time it was made in 2020. 
The COVID-19 pandemic and surrounding circumstances presented a novel situation for 
insurers. And I recognise that there was some uncertainty about whether the wording of 
certain types of clause would cover claims. This was part of the reason for the FCA test 
case. But whilst the court judgments provided clarity, this does not mean QBE was unable to 
have reached a different conclusion to the one it did prior to the judgments. Ultimately, the 
decision it reached on Ws claim in 2020 was shown to have been incorrect. And as a result 
of this incorrect decision W was left without the settlement of its claim when it would 
otherwise have received this. 
I note QBEs comments over the guidance for firms about the FCA test case issued by the 
FCA in 20201. Whilst I note that this indicates insurers might be able to wait until the 
conclusion of the court case, no mention was made in relation to compensating customers 
who then had to wait for a decision on their claim. QBE has said adding interest to Ws claim 
would unfairly advantage this customer over others who did not make their claim in 2020 but 
rather waited. However, if a customer waited to make a claim, that would be their choice. 
Additionally, my role here is to consider the circumstances of Ws case.
The role of the Ombudsman Service where consideration of a complaint identifies, for 
example, that an insurer has reached the incorrect decision on a claim, is to put the 
complainant back in the position it would have been in had the correct decision been made. I 
note W has referred to punitive measures, but it is not the role of the Ombudsman Service to 
regulate or punish financial firms. That is the role of the FCA. So, my task here is to try to put 
the parties back in the position they would have been in had QBE met Ws claim in 2020.
In attempting to put the parties back in the position they wouldve been in, we consider that if 
a party has been left without funds they ought to have had, interest should be paid on this 
sum. The level of this interest takes into account the fact that the complainant will have been 
denied opportunities to use the money theyve been without. And the level of interest we 
tend to award is 8% simple per annum, which is in line with the rate awarded on judgment 
debts. 
This level of interest is dependent on the circumstances of the complaint though. And it is 
open to the parties to provide evidence that a different rate is more appropriate. 
W has referred to a loss of growth, but as above the 8% rate takes into account the 
complainants inability to use the money. And based on what has been provided from both 
QBE and W, I am not persuaded that 8% is inappropriate in this case. 
As I consider QBE could have come to the decision to uphold Ws claim in 2020, I consider 
that interest should be payable from when the claim would have been settled as a result of 
this. With an ongoing loss such as a business interruption claim of this nature, I consider that 
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/finalised-guidance-bi-test-case.pdf it would generally be appropriate for an insurer to make monthly, interim payments. An 
insurer would need to wait for a period for the claimants loss to crystalise to an extent  and 
I consider a period of a month would be reasonable in this case. And then the insurer would 
need some time to assess the claim and losses, before making payment, which might take 
another month. 
So, in Ws case, I consider that QBE should have made monthly payments from a point two 
months after Ws insured losses started, until the insured losses were fully paid  taking into 
account the indemnity period and other relevant circumstances. And that interest, at a rate of 
8% simple, should be added to settlement from the date each of these payments would have 
been made, until the ultimate date of settlement. 
However, I also need to take into account the fact W took out a Bounce Back Loan on 
4 May 2020. When initially asked about this loan, W said that it took the loan to help our 
business, because we had established at the time that Insurers were not going to honour the 
policy. After our Investigator informed the parties that this would impact the interest 
payable, W has provided further comments. It has said the loan almost certainly would have 
been taken out regardless of whether or not the claim was paid. And added that whilst the 
decline of the claim may have been a trigger that led to the loan being taken, the reasons 
also included uncertainty over the length of lockdown and W had planned expenditure on 
growth. 
I do note Ws more recent comments over whether a loan would have been taken even had 
the claim been met in April 2020. However, I am not persuaded that this loan would have 
been taken in those circumstances. As W has said, the decline of the claim acted as a 
trigger for this decision. 
Given I consider the loan was taken due to the decline of the claim, this finance represents 
money W would not have had if the claim had been met as I consider it should have. So, the 
decline of the claim did not cause W to be without the amount of the borrowing. And so QBE 
need not pay 8% interest on the sum of this borrowing. Instead, QBE should compensate W 
for the actual cost of this borrowing. I understand that would have been 0% for the first 
12 months, and then 2.5% after this. 
Putting things right
I consider Ws complaint should be upheld. In order to put things right, QBE should pay W 
interest on the claims settlement. The interest payable should be based on W having been 
deprived of monthly interim payments that should have been made during the course of the 
claim. 
The first of these payments should have been paid two months after the date Ws insured 
losses first started to accrue and should have covered Ws indemnified losses for first month 
of these losses. Subsequent monthly payments should have been based on losses for the 
subsequent months. 
QBE should pay W interest on the amount of each of these interim payments, for the period 
from the date of each of these interim payments should have been made to the date of 
settlement. This interest should be paid at a rate of 8% simple per annum. 
However, QBE is entitled to deduct from this interest calculation any interest that would be 
payable on the sum of Ws bounce back loan, for the period W had the benefit of this loan. 
QBE should instead pay W the cost of its borrowing under the bounce back loan, including 
any fees and interest that has accrued at the point of settlement.QBE has already offered to pay W £250 compensation. QBE should do this if it has not done 
so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. QBE UK Limited should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman