DRN-1720082
The complaint
Mr W complained that Transunion International UK Limited (Transunion) gave the wrong 
information about him to companies making searches.  So those companies wrote to him at 
one of his old addresses.
What happened
In 2019, Mr W was being written to by two debt recovery companies.  But, instead of writing 
to him at his current address, they wrote to him at the house hed lived at with his ex-wife.  
When Mr W complained to them, both companies said that theyd checked his address with 
Transunion.  So they werent responsible for him not getting the letters.
Mr W checked his credit file.  He said this showed the right address for him.  So he 
contacted Transunion to find out why it was giving out different information from what he 
could see.  And he asked them for copies of what had been given to the debt recovery 
companies.
Transunion replied to Mr W, telling him that anyone searching his record would see the 
same information he could see on his credit report.  They offered to send him a copy of this.  
But Mr W said he could get that for himself.  He wanted to see what Transunion had given to 
companies searching his details.
Transunion treated this this as a complaint and investigated.  When theyd finished their 
investigation, they wrote to him and explained the electoral roll still showed him as living at 
his previous address.  So they didnt think theyd done anything wrong in passing that 
information on.  And they said they couldnt give him the companies searches because they 
cant access them; theyre available only to the searcher.
Mr W wasnt satisfied so he brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator considered all the 
evidence but didnt think Transunion had done anything wrong.  He said theyd provided 
information theyd got from a third party to the searchers.  And they werent responsible if 
that information wasnt right.
Mr W wasnt happy with the investigators conclusions.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Ws upset that companies wrote to him at an address he wasnt living at.  
That must have made it hard for him to sort out his business with them.  
Transunion have explained that they collect information and allow companies to search it 
when theyre trying to trace someone.  The informations both current and historic.  And Transunion have said that Mr W can see the same information their searchers can by 
looking at his credit report.
Mr Ws sent us a copy of his credit report.  That shows six different addresses for him.  It 
shows his links to the addresses at various times. And it doesnt show which address he 
lives at now. 
I cant judge whether the information on the credit report is right or wrong.  And Transunion 
doesnt check it.  Even if they did, Transunion have no control over how companies use their 
search results.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to say Transunions responsible for the 
companies writing to Mr W at an old address.
As I dont think Transunion have done anything wrong, Im not asking them to do anything 
else about this complaint.  Theyve confirmed that theyve been told that the electoral rolls 
now been updated, so I hope this will make it less likely there are any problems in the future. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Transunion International 
UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman