DRN-1866027
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the settlement amount he received from BUPA Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr K booked to go on a skiing holiday to France in March last year. Hed initially intended to 
be away for three weeks between 22 March  14 April but this was cut short as he injured 
himself three days into the trip. The injuries sustained were, a bruised rib cage, bruised right- 
side lung and damage to the surrounding muscle and tissue area. He was prescribed pain 
relief medication and advised to rest.
Mr K said that when he spoke to BUPA he was told to raise a claim when he returned home 
and wasnt connected to its medical assistance team. He said had BUPA done this, hed 
have likely been repatriated to the UK. Instead, Mr K had to rearrange his own early return 
flight on 6 April  cutting his trip early by more than a week. He would like BUPA to 
reimburse the cost of the holiday, including his additional costs for things like food and room 
service as he was unable to leave his hotel room during that time.
BUPA agreed that it should have told Mr K about its emergency assistance benefit and 
apologised for not doing so during the call. It also partially accepted his claim and paid for 
the unused accommodation of nine days from 6 April until his intended return date. BUPA 
also paid for the unused car hire during that time as well as the return flight and Mr Ks 
medical expenses. However, it said it would not cover the additional costs Mr K incurred for 
food, room service and some other minor expenses as these didnt fall within the scope of 
the policy.
Our investigator noted BUPA hadnt told Mr K about the emergency assistance benefit 
although she felt overall that this had little impact on Mr Ks situation as he was able to 
arrange a return flight quickly. She also said she was persuaded Mr K had seriously hurt 
himself and that from that date, his holiday should be effectively curtailed.
BUPA didnt agree. In summary, it said the policy didnt offer cover for loss of enjoyment and 
that because the sole purpose of Mr Ks trip was to ski, it considered this exclusion relevant. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered these arguments, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint, mainly for 
similar reasons already explained by our investigator. Ill explain why.
 
BUPA was obligated to deal with Mr Ks claim promptly and fairly. It should not reject a claim 
unreasonably. Im persuaded BUPA rejected part of Mr Ks claim unfairly because his 
holiday was effectively curtailed from the date he was injured. I say that because the injuries 
Mr K sustained, the medial evidence, and Mr Ks testimony about being confined to his hotel 
room are consistent in that he would have been unable to ski for the remainder of his holiday 
following his accident.
Mr K has explained this was the dominant reason for the trip. I take on board BUPAs 
comments about the policy not covering loss of enjoyment but thats not the reason Ive 
upheld Mr Ks complaint. Its because he was injured to a degree where he was unable to 
leave his hotel room, owing to severe back pain caused by his bruised ribs and bruised lung
 all symptoms consistent with this type of injury. It would have been helpful had the 
emergency assistance referral taken place as there likely would have been further 
investigation into Mr Ks circumstances and perhaps more detailed medical evidence.
But this didnt happen, and BUPA has recognised this and apologised. And so, I cant say 
whether Mr K would have been repatriated as theres not enough medical evidence. But I am 
persuaded he was unable to participate in the main reason for his holiday due to his injuries 
and so I think it should have been effectively curtailed from that date.
Mr K explained he stayed in his hotel room as the pain was such that he was unable to leave 
even for food. He had to have his food brought to the room. Ive seen a breakdown of his 
hotel costs and Im satisfied this was the case. Mr K also explained he waited until 6 April  
12 days after the accident  before arranging his own flight home. He said the pain had 
subsided enough that hed be able to endure the 200km car journey to the airport. He was 
unable to drive himself and instead, the hotel had put him in touch with another guest who 
drove Mr K to the airport.
The reason Im highlighting this is because it gives greater context to the difficulties Mr K 
experienced because of his injuries. He was also unable to carry his luggage on to the plane 
and was boarded and alighted by wheel chair. I think its also important to recognise this was 
an elderly gentleman who was travelling by himself. And so, considering the wider context, I 
think BUPAs emergency assistance omission somewhat impacted Mr K as this may have 
been a situation where it could have provided much need support. I note BUPAs comments 
that Mr K was told about the emergency assistance benefit when he originally took the 
policy. But I dont think its fair to portion responsibility solely with Mr K given he called BUPA 
for help and this wasnt discussed. BUPAs terms say;
We will make every effort to offer our range of services in all circumstances as shown in the 
policy
And given what Ive explained, Im not satisfied it did this.
BUPA has accepted that it was medically necessary for Mr K to cut his trip short from the 
date he booked his flight home. I say that because it agreed to cover this part of his claim for 
the unused accommodation, car hire and some other minor expenses. However, it hasnt 
extended its position to provide cover from the time the trip was effectively curtailed  and I 
think it should. I accept theres no provision for ski equipment /snow cover and so Im not 
asking BUPA to cover anything related to that. But it should pay Mr K the associated hotel
costs, less food, tips and room service, from the date he was injured and unable to leave the 
hotel room.
Putting things right
BUPA should pay Mr Ks cost of the hotel from the date his trip was effectively curtailed on 26 March  6 April. The cost of the hotel was 120 Euros for 12 nights
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ks complaint and BUPA Insurance Limited must now pay the remainder of 
his claim as set out above in the putting things right section of my final decision. BUPA must 
also add 8% simple interest to this award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman