DRN-2886023
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has handled his PPI policy. 
He says it was cancelled without his permission and doesnt think RBS has properly 
considered his complaint about this.
What happened
Mr J took out a loan in 2007, alongside this loan he also took a single premium PPI policy. 
Single premium means that the full cost of the PPI was added to the loan upfront, and then 
repaid over the term of the loan. In 2008 and 2009 Mr J tried to claim on his PPI policy, but 
was told that there was no PPI on his loan.
In 2013, RBS say they contacted Mr J to tell him he could make a claim for the mis-sale of 
his PPI policy if he wanted to. In 2016 Mr J did so, and as Mr Js 2007 loan formed part of a 
chain of loans, RBS issued a final response to his mis-sale complaint for each affected loan 
and offered to refund premiums and interest totalling £431.37. These letters said that if the 
PPI policy was still open it would now be cancelled, and Mr J took this to mean that his 
policy was still in force up to that point. As a result Mr J was unhappy that he had been told 
in 2008 and 2009 that he did not have PPI. Mr J feels that RBS should compensate him as if 
the policy had been in force when he tried to claim in 2008 and 2009. He says he didnt 
cancel the policy in 2007 and he wants RBS or the underwriter of the PPI policy to provide 
evidence to show why it was cancelled. He also wants compensation for what he considers 
to be poor complaint handling as he says this has caused him significant stress.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Js complaint, he felt that as there was no available evidence to 
show how or why the PPI policy was cancelled it would not be fair to uphold Mr Js 
complaint. Mr J remained unhappy, so his complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither RBS nor the underwriter of the PPI policy have been able to find any evidence to 
show why the policy was cancelled, other than to say that it was RBS who asked the 
underwriter to cancel it. We cant though be sure of whether RBS made this cancellation 
request on Mr Js instructions or for some other reason. Mr J is concerned that RBS and the 
underwriter are withholding this information, but I am satisfied that isnt the case. The policy 
was cancelled in October 2007, only a month after it began, and Ive seen records that show 
this, including Mr Js loan statement showing that most of the PPI premium that had been 
added to the loan was refunded at that stage. So the policy has been closed for nearly 14 
years, and I wouldnt expect either RBS or the underwriter to have kept detailed records of a 
closed policy for such a long time.
Given the extremely limited information available from when the policy was cancelled, I cant 
reasonably conclude that it was cancelled without Mr Js permission. I know Mr J has said he 
didnt cancel it, and I dont doubt he is giving us his honest recollection, but we are talking 
about events from over ten years ago, and memories do fade.
Regarding RBS letters in 2016, I appreciate that these caused Mr J some concern as he 
understood them to be saying that his PPI policy was only being cancelled in 2016. But 
thats not how I read these letters, they refer in very general terms to the PPI policy being 
cancelled if it is still open, and dont specifically state that Mr Js policy was still open at that 
time. The refund that RBS offered in those letters appears to be a refund of the part of the 
PPI premium that Mr J had repaid through his first loan payment back in 2007, which wasnt 
included in the refund of the rest of the premium when the policy was cancelled in 2007.
I understand that Mr J has found the confusion around the cancellation of his policy stressful 
at what is already a very difficult time for him. But I havent seen enough evidence to safely 
conclude that RBS made any errors when the policy was cancelled in 2007. From what Ive 
seen, it also seems that RBS correctly informed Mr J that he no longer had a PPI policy  
when he tried to make a claim. Finally, Im also satisfied that RBS has now offered to refund 
all of the PPI premium that was initially added to Mr Js loan which is a fair resolution to 
Mr Js original mis-sale complaint. 
With all this in mind, I dont think that RBS needs to do any more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
If the refunds offered in RBS letters from 2016 havent yet been paid then RBS should pay 
them to Mr J now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman