The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited have declined a claim she 
made on her personal sick pay policy.
What happened
Miss M has been absent from work since September 2018.
She previously made a complaint about LV declining a claim between September 2018 and 
January 2019. An investigator upheld the complaint and LV agreed to pay the benefit for that 
period. This complaint is about LV not paying a further claim Miss M made between January 
and April 2019. 
Miss M had back surgery in January 2019. Theres an exclusion on Miss Ms policy which 
says that she cant claim for issues relating to her back. But, she says that she was 
experiencing depression before, and after, her surgery. She says this claim is nothing to do 
with her surgery  its about her depression. Miss M says shes been signed off by a doctor 
for depression, was taking medication and had support from her life coach. 
LV says, in summary, that the medical evidence doesnt support that Miss M was so unwell 
she couldnt work. They said that the GP notes arent sufficient to support her absence and 
the medication wasnt prescribed in such a way that suggested she would get much benefit 
from it. They also said Miss M had been referred to a group wellbeing session, not one to 
one counselling, and that her life coach wasnt a medical professional. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think the medical evidence 
demonstrated that Miss M couldnt work. Miss M didnt agree as she says that we previously 
upheld her other complaint and that her doctor has confirmed shes being treated for 
depression. She says this is nothing to do with her back surgery.  So she asked an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that LV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms say what LV will pay the claim if: 
Your too unwell to carry out the main tasks of our occupation, and you arent doing 
any other paid or unpaid work.By main tasks we mean the things which cant 
reasonably be left out of our role, or changed by you or your employer.
DRN-1873837Miss M has made a number of points following the investigators review of her complaint. Ill 
only refer to those which I think are central to my decision. 
Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint as I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to decline 
her claim for the period between January and April 2019. I say that because: 
I appreciate that an investigator at our service upheld Miss Ms previous complaint. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that this complaint should be upheld too. My role is 
to look at the evidence in this complaint, which covers a different time period and Im 
not bound by the previous decision made by the investigator 
I also want to make it clear that I accept Miss Ms position that her claim and 
complaint has nothing to do with her back surgery. The issue Im considering is 
whether between January and April 2019 Miss Ms mental health condition meant 
that she was too unwell to carry out the main tasks of her occupation. I dont think the 
available medical evidence adequately demonstrates that to be the case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain 
The evidence from Miss Ms GP isnt detailed and doesnt give much insight into the 
severity of her condition or how it impacts on her ability to work. There isnt much 
detail about the symptoms she experienced or how her condition impacted on her 
daily life. The GP signed Miss M off work with depression but thats not the same as 
demonstrating that she meets the policy definition of incapacity which Ive set out 
above. I also bear in mind that the GP isnt a psychiatrist and has relied on Miss Ms 
reporting of her condition
 
Miss M had been prescribed some low doses of medication and was referred to a 
group wellbeing course comprising of two short one-hour sessions. Shes also seen a 
life coach, who isnt medically qualified. When Miss M met with the occupational 
physician she didnt identify her depression as being the main barrier to return to 
work or explain how it affected her ability to do her job. So, I think it was reasonable 
for LV to conclude that evidence in relation to Miss Ms mental health condition didnt 
suggest that she was so unwell that she couldnt carry about the main tasks of her 
occupation
 
LV also sought input from their Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and asked him to 
comment on Miss M medical records and the other information provided. He didnt 
think that there was evidence to support the claim on the basis of the available 
information. I note that the CMO was a psychiatrist. He concluded that the 
interventions by the GP didnt suggest that Miss M was experiencing a significant 
mental health problem. He also didnt think that the referral to a wellbeing session 
and the life coach appointments could reasonably be regarded as a response to a 
significant mental illness. So, Im satisfied that LV relied on the opinion of a suitably 
qualified expert when deciding to decline the claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2020.
 Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman