DRN-1628242
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Principality Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
 What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in December 2000. The policy was taken out 
to cover their mortgage and was in Mrs T's name only. It provided her with cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs T didnt
agree. Mrs T said that she only took the PPI because Principality advised her to do so, but 
she wasn't happy with it so she cancelled it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The PPI was sold almost 20 years ago so, unsurprisingly, some of the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory. So I reach my conclusion on the balance of 
probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
The PPI was taken out when Mr and Mrs T were re-mortgaging. They'd held mortgages 
before without a PPI policy, so I think they probably would have known that PPI wasn't 
required if they didn't want it. I can see that they completed and signed a PPI application 
form - separate from the mortgage application - together with a separate direct debit 
mandate. They applied for cover in Mrs T's name only. I think all of this shows that they 
were given a choice about whether to take the PPI.
Overall, I think Principality made Mr and Mrs T aware that PPI was optional and they chose 
to take it out.
Principality says it didn't recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T. And even if Mrs T feels the 
PPI was recommended, I don't think a recommendation to have PPI would have been 
unsuitable - so this doesn't affect the outcome of their complaint. But I've looked carefully at 
whether Principality gave Mr and Mrs T enough information to make a proper decision about 
whether the PPI was right for them - and if it didn't do this, I've thought about whether; that 
makes any overall difference to what happened.The policy was taken in Mrs T's name only. Most likely this was because Mr T had been 
diagnosed with a pre-existing medical condition and probably thought the policy would not 
be as useful for him if he couldn't claim for this condition. Mrs T was eligible for the policy, 
given her circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
Mrs T told us that she'd also been diagnosed with two conditions. But she also said that 
these were successfully controlled by medication and that she didn't need to take extended 
time off work because of them. She would have been able to claim for other conditions, so I 
don't think her diagnosis would have stopped her taking the policy if the exclusion terms had 
been brought to her attention.
Mrs T wasnt affected by any of the other conditions limiting the policys main benefits such 
as those affecting self-employed people. So I think it unlikely she needed better information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mrs T says she would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay 
from her employer if she couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. The mortgage was a 
significant long term financial commitment and Mr and Mrs Ts home was at risk if they didnt 
keep up with the repayments. And they didn't have any other means - such as savings - to 
rely on if Mrs T found herself unable to work. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 
months in the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness. So I think the PPI could 
have been a useful benefit, in addition to Mrs T's existing arrangements. It also covered her 
if she'd become unemployed 
Its not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs T 
before they agreed to purchase it. For this reason I have considered whether clearer 
information about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Ts decision to purchase the 
policy. They had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay something 
for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
they would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
I appreciate a compensation payment would be greatly welcome at this time bearing in mind 
Mr and Mrs T's current circumstances. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr 
and Mrs T would have made a different decision about taking out the policy if better  
information had been provided to them  overall I think they would have still taken out the 
policy. So I can't order Principality to compensate them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman