DRN-1587363
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service provided by Tesco Mobile Limited (Tesco) when he 
upgraded to a new phone. 
Where I refer to Tesco, this includes its agents.
What happened
Mr C decided to upgrade his new phone in March 2019. He handed in his old phone to a 
Tesco store. Tesco failed to record the phone as having been returned and later charged 
him about £350 for its non-return. Mr C received several letters from debt recovery agents 
over the next few months asking him to pay the amount outstanding. He says he called 
Tesco and the agents on numerous occasions, and went into the store on four separate 
occasions in an attempt to clarify the issue. He says the staff didnt believe hed given the 
phone back to them. So he complained. 
Tesco investigated and upheld his complaint. They accepted its store had made a mistake 
and apologised for the service it had provided. Mr C wasnt happy with that as he said hed 
had to take taxis to the store on four occasions (costing him about £50) and he should be 
reimbursed for that. And he wanted compensation for the worry and upset Tesco had 
caused.
After Mr C complained to this service, Tesco reviewed the circumstances and offered £50 to 
resolve the complaint. Mr C didnt think that was sufficient. Our investigator agreed with 
Mr C. She thought Tesco should pay a total of £200 to cover the taxi fares and phone call 
costs as well as to acknowledge the overall trouble and upset caused.
Mr C agreed with the investigators outcome but Tesco didnt. They asked an ombudsman to 
make a final decision. In summary, their points were as follows:
They had no confirmation the phone had been returned to the store so Mr C had 
been correctly charged for the failure to return the phone.
It was Mr Cs choice to take a taxi to the store. The trip was short and he could have 
used alternative transport or called the store.
Mr C could have contacted them sooner.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And in doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.Tesco have acknowledged they made a mistake. They dont know how it happened, but they 
accept they failed to correctly record the return of the phone in March 2019. Had they not 
made that mistake and correctly recorded the phone as having been returned, Mr C wouldnt 
have had any cause to complain. So I dont accept that Tesco were right to charge him for 
failing to return the phone. 
Mr C says he contacted Tesco on numerous occasions to try to rectify things. He also says 
he took taxis to the Tesco store. I have no reason to doubt that he did these things. Tesco 
said he could have called them but Mr C said he did that without any success. So visiting the 
store seems like a reasonable thing to do. He could have used alternative transport but each 
trip was only a few pounds and the reason it mounted up was because Mr C had to go in to 
the store four times. All of this should have been unnecessary and I think Tesco need to take 
responsibility for the costs Mr C has incurred in both telephone calls and taxis. 
Mr C also received several letters from debt collectors. He said he couldnt sleep because he 
feared bailiffs would come and he was worried his credit score would be affected. Receiving 
letters such as these is always likely to cause concern and I think Tesco should also 
recognise the impact its mistake has caused in this regard.
Putting things right
Overall, Im not satisfied Tesco handled things well so I will be upholding this complaint. 
Tesco have apologised and offered to pay Mr C £50. Our investigator thought £200 would be 
more appropriate and in light of the trouble and upset Ive outlined above, plus the 
unnecessary travel and contact costs, I agree with our investigator that £200 would be a fair 
and reasonable way of resolving this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and ask Tesco Mobile Limited 
to pay Mr C a total of £200 to cover the costs he incurred and to recognise the trouble and 
upset caused by its poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman