DRN-3124347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd has failed to process Mrs Fs critical 
illness claim in a timely manner. To resolve their complaint, they consider it ought to pay 
them £428.64 in lost interest on their policys sum assured.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs F held a joint life and critical illness policy with Zurich. In January 2020, Mrs F 
was sadly diagnosed with a type of lymphatic cancer. At the end of that month  on 30 
January 2020  Mr and Mrs F said they called Zurich to tell it about her diagnosis. They said 
Zurich told them they didnt need to do anything, and the call ended.
On 4 March 2021, Mr and Mrs F called Zurich again. They asked why they hadnt heard 
anything further about their claim. Zurich logged a complaint for Mr and Mrs F but explained 
it didnt have any record of a claim. It told Mr and Mrs F it would search the call history and in 
the interim, started the claim process for them.  
The £44,466.01 critical illness claim was paid in April 2021, along with a further 
reimbursement of premiums paid to the claims settlement date, totalling £411.60.  
In late April 2021, Zurich issued a final response to the complaint. It said it could not locate 
any call from January 2020. So it didnt think it had done anything wrong in paying the claim 
in 2021. It paid Mr and Mrs F £200 as a goodwill gesture but wouldnt do anything further.  
Mr and Mrs F brought the complaint to this service. They explained that they would have left 
the claim payment in a deposit account until at least 2022  as it was earmarked for 
accessibility changes to their home for their child. If they had received the payment as they 
should have in 2020, theyd have earned approximately £428.64 in interest (or £432.61 if the 
premium refund was included) based on an assumed claim payment date of 1 March 2020.  
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint, but he didnt think it should succeed. He 
said he did not dispute Mr and Mrs F made the call to Zurich  the evidence available clearly 
suggested it was placed. However, there was sadly no call recording or note to support what 
was said. On that basis, he couldnt conclude Zurich had misled Mr and Mrs F such that a 
claim ought to have been paid any sooner than it was.  
Mr and Mrs F said they did not agree with the investigator. They noted how Zurich accepted 
the call happened. It should have recorded it  they should not be at fault if it failed to do so. 
In their view it is perverse to find in Zurichs favour given it is the party that cant produce the 
required evidence. Zurich was told about Mrs Fs illness, and it should have opened up a 
claim for them in January 2020.  
The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about Mrs Fs diagnosis and wish to send both Mr and Mrs F my 
best wishes. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am unfortunately not able to 
uphold their complaint. Ill explain my reasons below.  
I have no reason to dispute Mr Fs recollection, and I can see he has gone into some detail 
about what happened at the time including obtaining a subject access request to confirm a 
call was placed to Zurich on 30 January 2020, which lasted for four minutes.   
However, whilst this evidence is something I take into account, I must also weigh up Zurichs 
version of events as it takes the view that a claim call cannot have happened within the time 
frame. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most likely, on 
the balance of probabilities.
The telephone number Mr F has evidenced is a Zurich help point number with various 
keypad options to be chosen once connected. Mr F says he then spoke to a call handler and 
explained about Mrs Fs circumstances, following which they were told that they didnt need 
to do anything. 
While I dont doubt what Mr F has told us, I cant verify what was said. He and Mrs F arent 
at fault for a lack of any recording, but I believe that  for whatever reason  it was not likely 
made clear that a claim was to be processed. If that was the case, Zurich would have sent 
out the required claim paperwork to Mr and Mrs F, as it did in 2021 within a matter of days.  
Further, Mr and Mrs F didnt follow the matter up, and neither did Zurich. Mr and Mrs F argue 
that they didnt need to because Zurich said nothing else was to be done, but that leads me 
to question how Zurich was supposed to validate a claim without detailed information about 
Mrs Fs medical position (which would be obtained by the sending of forms to elicit the 
information). Not every condition that a policyholder has will meet the definitions under a 
critical illness policy  and Zurich couldnt have known that. If there is any prospect that a 
policyholder could claim under their policy, Zurich will issue a claim form. 
Once Mr and Mrs F placed their call in 2021, the claim was accepted and paid in a 
reasonable and prompt manner. Ive not seen any clear reason that Zurich wouldnt have 
done the same in 2020, if it received the required evidence that Mrs F had a type of cancer 
of the severity to meet the critical illness policy definition. 
Despite this, Zurich has accounted for the claim occurring as at January 2020 and refunded 
15 monthly premium payments to Mr and Mrs F as if they had claimed at that time. 
If for some reason Zurich had disputed the claim, Mr and Mrs F referred a complaint here 
about that, and this service determined a claim should be paid then a backdated claim 
payment would include interest. But, that would be if I made findings to the effect that Zurich 
should have assessed the evidence and reached a claim payment conclusion sooner than it 
did. In that scenario, Mr and Mrs F would have been unreasonably deprived of their funds.  
In this case, there is no objective evidence to show that Zurich is liable for any delay in the 
claim payment. It cannot be said with any certainty what Zurich knew in January 2020  but 
the argument that it took a claims notification and didnt send out forms or note that on its 
systems not something I accept as persuasive in the circumstances.  
I also do not believe I should make an award of the lost opportunity to earn interest into the 
future. It is not something that would ordinarily be provided when a claim payment is upheld 
as a result of complaint at this service. Thats because it cant be said with certainty that Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have had other calls on the funds, rather than keeping them on deposit.  
Zurich has explained how the particular helpline works  if the call placed had come through 
to its contact centre, a note would have been placed against the policy records. To that end 
it has supplied us with a summary of notes throughout the history of Mr and Mrs Fs policy, 
and there is not an entry for January 2020. 
I agree with Mr and Mrs F that the call ought to have been recorded  as that is Zurichs 
standard policy, and for some reason it did not happen here. Zurich says it may be because 
the call (being brief) did not reach the relevant claims call centre. Be that as it may, it has 
rightly paid £200 compensation for the upset caused to Mr and Mrs F for the failure to 
capture the call. I believe that is a fair response in the circumstances, alongside the refund of 
policy premiums. Like our investigator, I do not believe Zurich should do anything more. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances, I find Zurich to have acted fairly in 
the payment of their claim. I therefore do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman