DRN-4010684
The complaint and background
Ms A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund money she lost to an investment 
scam. For the purposes of this decision, all reference to Ms A includes her representative. 
In summary, this complaint concerns eight payments Ms A made on 14 February 2022, to 
what she thought at the time was a genuine employment venture. All of the contended 
transactions were made using her HSBC bank account. Ms A was under the impression that 
she would be performing certain online tasks for Amazon, the well-known e-commerce 
company. She signed up for the scheme following a recommendation from a long-term friend 
who also had become involved. 
In order to be paid for completed tasks, Ms A was told she would first need to purchase 
cryptocurrency which would then allow her to claim renumeration from the employer. Happy 
with this, Ms A purchased cryptocurrency from Binance.com (a genuine currency exchange 
platform). Once she had the cryptocurrency, she was directed by the figures she was in 
touch with at the employment programme to send it onwards from her Binance account to an 
online cryptocurrency wallet address that was provided to her. After making eight payments 
on 14 February 2022, Ms A went on to remit further money to Binance as part of the same 
agreement (with these later transactions forming part of a separate complaint at this office). 
At first, Ms A was happy with the deal she had made with the outfit. But she subsequently 
encountered problems with claiming what she was owed and later realised that this was all 
an elaborate scam  there was in fact no employment agreement, and she had instead 
sent money to scammers in the form of cryptocurrency. 
Ms A wanted to retrieve what she had lost, so she raised a complaint with HSBC, citing that 
it ought to have protected her from being scammed. Upon reviewing what happened, the 
bank declined to reimburse Ms A; it said that it had made no error by processing the 
payments. Unhappy with this, Ms A raised this complaint. 
One of our investigators ultimately considered that HSBC could not fairly be held liable for 
Ms As loss. Ms A disagrees, submitting that the transactions that occurred on 14 February 
2022 ought to have caused HSBC alarm. And had bank staff stepped in and spoken to her, 
HSBC would have been able to recognise she was being scammed and prevented the 
payments from taking place. 
Because Ms A is not in agreement, the matter has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, my determination here is of the card payments Ms A authorised to Binance on   
14 February 2022; this complaint does not cover the subsequent transactions Ms A has 
raised with HSBC as being part of the same, or other scams. These form part of separate 
complaint(s) Ms A has with this service, which I make no finding on.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Ms A. This is a finely balanced case and Id like 
to assure her that Ive duly considered everything thats been provided. But on account of 
the evidence, Im not persuaded that HSBC ought to refund the transactions in dispute here. 
I say so for the following reasons:
relevant considerations
It's common ground that the disputed payments were all authorised by Ms A for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) in force at the time. The parties 
accept that these should be regarded as authorised payments, even though Ms A was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam.
As a starting position, HSBC has an obligation to follow a consumers payment instructions; 
pursuant to the PSRs and the terms and conditions of the account, it has a duty to fulfil 
payments requests correctly and promptly so that legitimate payments are made properly. 
So, even though its not in question that Ms A was tricked into sending the money by 
scammers, because she authorised these payments, she starts off on the back-foot when it 
comes to getting the money returned as HSBC was following a valid instruction.
Still, there are some situations where banks  taking into account the relevant rules, codes 
and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that something wasnt right or 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding a transaction before making the 
payment. In some circumstances, this might warrant an intervention from a bank, to pose 
reasonably probing questions as a means to guard against the risk of financial harm from 
fraud (amongst other things). Accordingly, Ive looked into what this means for this case and 
whether HSBC should have done more to prevent these disputed payments Ms A made.
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
So far as I am reasonably aware, all of the eight payments in question were made to 
Binance (or its subsidiaries). I have therefore reached my findings on the basis that the 
transactions Ms A would like returned initially went to a legitimate firm, where she held an 
account that she used to direct the funds to a separate cryptocurrency wallet held by the 
scammers. For the avoidance of any doubt, there is no indication that Binance were involved 
in this illicit scheme, other than its exchange platform was used to facilitate Ms As transfers. 
HSBC has said that it did not step in with these transactions as its monitoring systems did 
not deem any of them as suspicious or concerning. Looking at these payments, I do not 
consider that the first three (all of which had a value of £100 or less) were unusual or 
suspicious enough for HSBC to intervene. The PSRs are designed to protect consumers 
but also to ensure that banks provide services without undue delay. So, there is a balance to 
be struck between bankers identifying transactions that could potentially be fraudulent, and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Under these circumstances, if HSBC were 
expected to intervene for every payment of a similar size, it would risk grinding the banking 
payment system to a halt. 
It's evident Ms A often used her HSBC account to outlay multiple payments on the same 
day; there are at least a dozen occasions in the recent months leading up to February 2022 
whereby she paid money out to the same destination two to three times within the same 24 
hours. Whats more, Ms A hasnt disputed three card payments made to Binance on             
2 February 2022, meaning that the exchange platform was not a new beneficiary for her to 
pay (otherwise known as a payee) when these contended payments were made a week or 
so later. I find it fair to say that this wouldve made it increasingly difficult for HSBC to correctly 
identify genuine transactions from any at risk from fraud and scams. From the banks 
perspective, the first three payments to Binance on 14 February 2022 couldve simply been 
a repeat of the prior spending Ms A instructed some days before, and in keeping with her 
habitude to remit two to three payments to the same payee within the same day. I therefore 
cannot safely conclude that HSBC ought to have intervened for these three debit card 
payments. Indeed, Ms A accepted our investigators findings that they would not be refunded 
on the basis that HSBC could not reasonably be expected to have questioned them.
Conversely, I find that HSBC did have sufficient grounds to suspect fraud or a scam  and 
therefore justify an intervention  when Ms A instructed the fourth payment to Binance on 
the day in question. In recent times, Ms A very rarely (if ever) made a series of four 
payments to the same payee during the same day. Its my judgment that this card 
transaction, particularly given its quick succession, represented unusual and uncharacteristic 
behaviour for the account. It conflicted with Ms As typical pattern of spending, even bearing 
in mind how she often sent money to the same destination more than once a day. 
HSBC is aware that such a procession of payments to the same payee can be an indicator 
of fraud; fraudsters frequently use this technique in an attempt to avoid the alarm caused by 
a single, one-off larger transaction. As well as this, the series of transactions were draining 
the account of its available balance in a rapid fashion, to the extent that the available funds 
were swiftly moving from a healthy credit balance to one that was going to be overdrawn. 
Without an apparent reason for why separate increments were needed (given they were all 
evidently being directed to the same place within a matter of hours) it strikes me that this 
marked a deviation from how Ms A tended to operate her account and, instead, signified that 
it might be at risk of financial harm. With all this in mind, Im satisfied HSBC ought to have 
intervened with appropriate questioning before this transaction was allowed to be let go.  
causation
Having concluded that HSBC ought to have questioned Ms A about this fourth payment, next 
I need to determine what difference (if any) such an intervention wouldve made. So, would 
the loss being claimed for have occurred but for HSBC taking appropriate action? This can 
be referred to as causation.
Ive thought carefully about what sort of questions HSBC shouldve reasonably asked Ms A. 
Finding out details such as who the money is being paid to and why is accepted good 
practice in the banking industry, because it generally affords bank staff a more informed 
position when deciding whether to proceed with the payment instruction without further 
enquiries. This can be used in conjunction with the payment screening technology HSBC 
has, which I understand means it would have real-time notice of the intended payee, 
amongst some additional information about its nature of business. 
With that being the case, I find it would have been proportionate for HSBC to have asked  
Ms A the purpose behind making a fourth payment to Binance on the same day, whilst being 
aware that the company is a financial institution that provides currency services. 
Its not in dispute that Ms A was comfortable that her payments were going to Binance in the 
first instance. The scammers had convinced her that this was perfectly normal and just part 
of the scheme. I find it likely that, had bank staff checked that Ms A was aware she was 
sending money to a cryptocurrency exchange, she wouldve been able to answer without 
sufficient concern  where the money was going was not a surprise to Ms A. Similarly, had HSBC questioned why she was paying Binance, or even if the conversation 
had developed onto whether there was another party present in the transaction, Im not 
persuaded that Ms As answer would have been overly disconcerting for the bank. After all, 
we know Ms A decided to start working with the outfit having been recommended by a    
long-term friend of ten years or so. By her own admission, she trusted that this companion 
had prospered from the programme and had invited her to liaise with other participants, who 
had also benefited. 
Its not in question that, by the time Ms A instructed this fourth payment, she was associated 
with a group of people who were also completing tasks and were generally happy with the 
arrangement  thats precisely why she was confident with going ahead. Ms A went with 
this supposed opportunity specifically because word-of-mouth had given her assurance in 
their ability to make her money. I find this crucial, as reputation (especially when shared 
amongst close acquaintances) tends to add trust to the service being rendered. 
Furthermore, Ms A was under the impression that some of the fellow partakers (aside from 
her close friend) had successfully claimed money back from the task position in the early 
days. I cannot ignore the confidence this was likely to have given; being told peers had been 
paid for work naturally reinforces the belief that the employer will pay up again. 
Ms A has also said that the group had not voiced any real concern about what they were 
being asked to do. It follows that, in line with what Ms A has told this service, even if she had 
checked in and asked others whether she should still go ahead, it seems probable she 
would not have received a compelling reason to be swayed from her plans  the deceptive 
nature of the scheme only came to light later on. Understandably, Ms A relied not only on 
her longstanding friends experience with the programme, but also on other members who 
she was being told had benefited from being involved. 
Ms A submits that its a reasonable expectation for HSBC to have questioned why an 
employment venture would require deposits of cryptocurrency. This is a point Ive considered 
carefully. I accept that, unfortunately, cryptocurrency is associated with fraud and scams. 
Even so, at the time of writing this decision, it is not an unlawful service or asset. In 
accordance with its legal (albeit predominantly unregulated) status, I cannot assume that 
every transaction HSBC facilitates to do with this digital asset is automatically a scam. 
There are numerous genuine companies that accept cryptocurrency as a method of payment 
for services. To that end, it cannot be presumed that a consumer using cryptocurrency is a 
definitive sign that something untoward is in play. Besides, this is assuming that any 
intervening conversation would have established that there was a task-based scheme 
involved. Given Ms As apparent assuredness in the legitimacy of the programme, its 
plausible that she may not have even specified this. 
 
When weighing up causation, I have duly borne in mind that there is some disparity with 
parts of what Ms A has told this office. On the one hand, Ms A has said the she only 
exchanged fiat money to cryptocurrency with Binance, as a means to facilitate this 
employment arrangement (or other scams that form part of her separate complaint). She has 
put forward that HSBC ought to have recognised this as a new type of expenditure. 
Yet, on the other hand, this service has repeatedly checked whether the earlier payments to 
Binance that Ive described above (i.e. those made on 2 February 2022) were associated 
with a scam  to which Ms A has explained they were not. I make my determination on the balance of probabilities. And for me to accept her side of 
things and uphold the complaint, I would need to place considerable evidential weight on    
Ms As testimony. But, with respect, her statement is slightly vague and self-contradictory 
regarding what are critical elements to a case of this kind. 
That being so, I must work on the basis that Ms A did have some prior and separate 
cryptocurrency experience, despite some of her submissions. This has causative relevance. 
From HSBCs standpoint, this would not have been a consumer that had been cold called or 
targeted by persons unknown  but rather, Ms A was acting on a recommendation from a 
close friend, and was using a company (Binance) with which she had previous and very 
recent experience with that had not led to a dispute or alleged loss. 
In fact, Ms A had credited her HSBC account from her Binance wallet just two days prior to 
14 February 2022. On the face of things, this fourth payment was therefore an authorised 
transaction to a genuine company, in keeping with Ms A having exchanged currency before.
All of this casts significant doubts on causation. Ultimately, I am not satisfied that  but for 
proportionate questioning from HSBC  the scam wouldve been stopped, and Ms As 
losses prevented. Overall, Im not convinced that due questioning from HSBC would have 
unearthed what was really happening  whether that intervention came at the point of the 
fourth card payment or when the subsequent debit card transactions were made.
Finally, once the payments were sent to Binance, we know that Ms A moved the funds 
onwards  thereby prejudicing any recovery attempt by HSBC. In other words, once these 
authorised payments had left Ms As account, it seems highly unlikely that her bank could 
retrieve them. Hence, why I find that HSBC made no error in respect of trying to reclaim 
what was sent.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman