DRN-4378409
The complaint
Ms B and Mr U are unhappy with the advice given by Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers
Limited (AJG) after making a claim under their contents insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Ms B and Mr U purchased a contents insurance policy via AJG acting as a
broker. In March 2022 they contacted AJG to add cover for their hot tub and garden
furniture.
In October 2022 Ms B and Mr U discovered their hot tub had been maliciously damaged, so
they made a claim to the insurer. As part of the insurers claim validation, AJG contacted
Ms B and Mr U to confirm the value of their hot tub.
Ms B and Mr U advised it was worth more than was noted on their insurance policy when
they added it in March 2022. Ms B and Mr U paid to increase the noted value on the basis
AJG said the cover could be backdated and the insurer would pay the higher amount.
However, the insurer didnt pay this increased amount on the basis this wasnt what was
noted at the time of the loss, and increased cover couldnt be backdated.
Ms B and Mr U complained to AJG (and the insurer). AJG accepted they had given incorrect
advice and offered £100 compensation. Ms B and Mr U want AJG to pay the shortfall
between the amount the insurer provided cover for, and the amount they increased cover to
which AJG said would be backdated. As they remained unhappy with AJG (and the insurer),
they approached this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint about AJG but she didnt uphold it. She
recognised AJG had given incorrect advice, but she thought the compensation already
offered was reasonable. So, she didnt recommend AJG do anything further.
Ms B and Mr U didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings 
before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a 
provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings before I reach my final decision.
Ms B and Mr U raised complaints about both AJG and the insurer. My consideration 
here is only in relation to AJG and what they are responsible for.
In February 2022 Ms B and Mr U purchased a contents insurance policy via AJG 
acting as a broker. In March 2022 Ms B and Mr U contacted AJG to add cover for 
their hot tub and garden furniture.
During the call they were asked the value of the hot tub. Ms B and Mr U said theyd 
bought it for £7,000 so second hand it was probably worth £5,000.
AJG said theyd approach the insurer and would let Ms B and Mr U know once the 
insurer had confirmed they could add this cover. A short time later, AJG confirmed to 
add the hot tub at a value of £5,000 and garden furniture at a value of £4,000, an 
additional premium of £173 would be due. Ms B and Mr U paid this, the cover was 
added and amended documents were sent to reflect this.
In October 2022 Ms B and Mr U discovered the hot tub had been maliciously 
damaged, so they made a claim to the insurer. As part of the insurer validation, AJG 
contacted Ms B and Mr U to confirm the value of the hot tub. During this call, 
Ms B and Mr U advised it was purchased for £8,000.
AJG said theyd need to go back to the insurer as it was currently noted as £5,000 
and would be in contact in due course. Ive not been able to listen to the follow up 
call. But it appears to be accepted by AJG that during that call they gave incorrect 
advice. This is recognised in their final response in which they said:
Unfortunately, you had not requested our branch to increase the value of the 
hot tub to £8,000 until after the claim had occurred. Although the branch 
confirmed that the value of the hot tub was increased on the policy to £8,000, 
this was after the claim occurred and therefore would not have an impact on 
the claim. However, I accept that some confusion was caused around this 
value, and that the branch did not make it clear that increasing the value to 
£8,000 would not affect your existing claim.
And also, in AJGs file provided to this service:
They told the client at this time that they will back date this amendment to 
cover the claim, as client specifically asks the agent this. The agent 
incorrectly confirmed that the value of their hot tub would now be backdated 
to £8,000 and will affect their claim which is incorrect.So, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that AJG told Ms B and Mr U that if they paid the 
£11 additional premium, cover would be increased to £8,000 and backdated. 
However, the insurer said the maximum value covered would only be £7,000. 
Ms B and Mr U want AJG to cover the £1,000 shortfall based on the incorrect advice 
they were given. But Im not minded to direct AJG to pay the £1,000 shortfall. Ill 
explain why.
Ms B and Mr Us documents outlined cover for the hot tub would be for £5,000, but 
the insurer said that it would actually be covered for £7,000. This was because it was 
accepted there was an error when AJG added the cover in March 2022, as it should 
have been £7,000 which is the value Ms B and Mr U had said the hot tub was when 
new. And the amount theyd paid was for cover up to £7,000 too. So, that is the 
maximum cover they would ever have ever had, based on what they said the value 
was when they added the items in March 2022.
But just because AJG later gave incorrect advice after the claim was made, it doesnt 
mean it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct AJG to follow that incorrect 
advice and pay the shortfall. Instead, I need to consider what would have happened if 
theyd given the correct advice, and if by giving incorrect advice, Ms B and Mr U have 
been put into a worse position. But I dont think they have.
If AJG had given the correct advice that cover couldnt be backdated, the most the 
insurer would pay would still have been £7,000. Ms B and Mr U wouldnt have been 
able to obtain increased cover for £8,000 as the loss had already happened. So 
regardless of that incorrect advice, the maximum settlement they would have been 
covered for in any event would have been the same - £7,000. So, Ms B and Mr U 
arent in a worse position in terms of the claim settlement based on that incorrect 
advice from AJG.
That said, it is clear there is a loss of expectation for Ms B and Mr U based on AJGs
incorrect advice, as they were expecting to have more cover than they were ever 
entitled to. But AJG has already recognised this and offered £100 compensation. And 
I think that amount is reasonable for the incorrect advice and loss of expectation, so 
Im not minded to direct them to increase this.
However, had the correct advice been given by AJG, that cover couldnt be 
backdated, and the maximum settlement was what was already covered on the 
policy (and already paid for), I dont think its likely Ms B and Mr U would have paid 
an extra £11 to increase cover which they would never have been able to benefit 
from, given the loss had already occurred.
With this in mind, whilst Im not minded to increase the compensation, or direct AJG 
to cover the shortfall, Im minded to direct AJG to reimburse the £11 Ms B and Mr U 
paid. In addition, to add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to date of 
reimbursement, to take into account theyve not had these funds for this period.
By reimbursing this amount, Ms B and Mr U would be in the position they always 
would have been in, but for the incorrect advice given by AJG. And I think thats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct AJG to reimburse the £11 
charged, add 8% simple interest from date of payment to date of reimbursement and to pay 
the £100 compensation already offered, if it hadnt yet been paid.The responses to my provisional decision
AJG responded and said they thought there had been some misunderstanding regarding 
what the £11 additional premium was for. AJG said this was charged to increase the hot tub 
cover from £5,000 to £8,000, as the insurer was only going to cover £5,000 for the hot tub.
AJG say the mid-term adjustment fee was waived, and the £11 was for the increased cover 
as the insurer was only going to pay £5,000 for the hot tub.
Ms B and Mr U didnt respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I reached, and the response to 
my provisional decision. Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my 
provisional decision.
I note AJG says there has been some misunderstanding regarding what the £11 was for. 
They say that this was to increase the cover from £5,000 as that was all the insurer was 
going to pay in settlement of the claim.
Whilst I note what AJG has said, based on all the information provided, I dont agree. Ill 
explain why.
Within AJGs file sent to this service, in several places, this shows that the cover 
Ms B and Mr U took out should have been noted as £7,000, but due to a typo by AJG, only 
£5,000 was noted on the schedule. The notes also indicate the premium charged at that time 
was for cover up to £7,000 too. For example:
Hi (name), we established she originally asked for the hot tub to be valued at £7k, 
this is what should have been documented on the endorsement (not £5k) and this is 
the cover she paid for.
One of our agent(sic) rang her in November to increase the value, at which point £8k 
was discussed and she paid an extra premium of £11.00 for this.
And:
The error was just a typo on the manual endorsement which was added to show she 
had this extra cover. It was typed up as £5k value for the hot tub but it should have 
been £7k.
And in the final response dated 13 December 2022:
As discussed, you informed us that the hot tub was valued at £7,000 and it was an 
error on our part that we incorrectly added this to your policy at £5,000.
So, I think this supports that Ms B and Mr U already had cover for £7,000, and thats what 
theyd already paid for, albeit the schedule had a typo which said £5,000.Consequently, if the £11 hadnt been paid by Ms B and Mr U, then they still wouldve had 
cover for £7,000. With this in mind, the £11 was only paid due to AJGs incorrect advice that 
the limit would be increased to £8,000 but was otherwise unnecessary in order to be covered 
for £7,000  which is what the insurer paid. Therefore, my final decision remains that AJG 
need to reimburse this unnecessary £11, with 8% simple interest added from date of 
payment to date of reimbursement.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct
Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited to:
Reimburse the £11 paid to increase cover
Add 8% simple interest* from date of payment to date of reimbursement
Pay the £100 compensation already offered, if its not already been paid
*  If Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B and Mr U 
how much its taken off. It should also give Ms B and Mr U a tax deduction certificate if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman