DRN-4208775
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society have provided him with poor customer 
service, and they have made unfounded allegations against him.
What happened
Mr R says he visited a Nationwide branch on 24 April 2023. He says a member of staff tried 
unsuccessfully to force him to use an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) when he wanted to 
be served at the counter instead, which he says caused him public humiliation, in the way 
the member of staff spoke to him. He says the staff member did not apologise to him, and 
the branch staff were disrespectful to him. Mr R says that the branch manager did not 
witness what happened as she was in an office while it occurred, but she turned up as he 
was concluding his business with the staff member. Mr R made a complaint to Nationwide. 
Nationwide did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. They said they obtained statements to assist 
with their investigations and this confirms at the time of Mr Rs visit there was only one other 
member present in the branch, and therefore as they were not busy, a member of staff was 
stood by the doorway to meet and greet their members rather than serving behind a counter. 
They said it is their usual process to ask if they can help, because if its a transaction which 
can be done at the ATM they encourage their members to do this with their support, but if Mr 
R didnt want to do this he was welcome to use the counter, which happened on this 
occasion. They said that so Mr R didnt have to wait, he was served by the same member of 
staff at the counter who let him know she could have helped him with this at the ATM, and 
Nationwide said there was no intention to cause upset by making this comment.
Nationwide said the branch manager confirmed that while she didnt see Mr R when he first 
came into the branch, she heard the whole conversation at the counter, and Nationwide 
received a further independent witness confirming he was rude and aggressive to a member 
of staff. Nationwide said Mr R used a condescending tone and raised his voice towards their 
staff. So they registered a warning on his account for six months. Nationwide said the branch 
manager offered to log a complaint, but he declined, and he spoke to a complaint handler 
over the phone. They said the complaint handler remained calm and professional, and when 
Mr R asked for the name of his manager, he provided this, but his manager would not take 
over the call as the complaint handler was a senior complaint handler. They said staff are 
not obliged to provide surnames. Mr R brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said its clear this situation has left Mr 
R very upset. But as we are an impartial service, this means we do not take sides and so as 
she has not identified where Nationwide have made an error or acted unreasonably, she 
was unable to conclude that they did anything wrong. Mr R asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Rs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Id like to explain to Mr R that it is not within this services remit to tell a business where they 
should position staff, whether it to be on the counter or at the front door, or which method 
they can encourage members to carry out their day to day transactions. Im also unable to 
tell a business how to handle the complaints they receive such as making them give out 
surnames to members or mandating that senior complaint handlers managers must take a 
call if a member insists. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Nationwide to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr R has about his experience in the branch in April 
2023. He felt publicly humiliated and disrespected by the branch staff. So I asked Nationwide 
if they had the Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) of Mr Rs branch visit. While I would not 
expect this to contain audio, it may show the body language and give me an insight as to 
what happened on this date. But Nationwide have confirmed that this is unavailable as 60 
days has passed since the date of Mr Rs visit. So unfortunately Im unable to rely on this 
here.
Ive listened to the phone call that Mr R had with Nationwide after he visited the branch. Mr R 
details the conversation he had with the member of staff standing at the door who asked him 
can I help you and Mr R replied no and he went to the counter, but there was only one 
cashier serving at the time. He said the staff member who was at the door went behind the 
counter and he says she rudely told him I could have served you at the ATM you know. Mr 
R says he told her he didnt want to be lectured by her, to which the cashier replied she 
wasnt lecturing him, but Mr R felt she was trying to get him to do something he didnt want 
to do. 
Mr R says he got an A4 statement and as he was about to walk away from the counter, the 
branch manager was looming over his shoulder and said I believe you have a complaint, 
which Mr R confirmed he did, but he wouldnt be discussing it with her as she was friends 
with the person he was complaining about. Mr R says the branch manager was sarcastic in 
her tone and these people need to be taken down a peg or two.
Ive also read the testimonies from two people from the Nationwide branch. Mr R is 
described as being extremely rude to the member of staff he first spoke to, and he asked to 
be served by another person. They said he was rude and aggressive with his tone, and 
another statement said he was raising his voice against staff, and he came across as 
aggressive when he said he was going to raise a complaint against staff, and he was 
shouting. 
When it comes to complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the 
evidence available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of 
probabilities, that is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Here, Im persuaded that there is likely to be misunderstanding on both sides as different 
people can interpret the same thing differently, especially if they are involved in the moment 
themselves. The Nationwide staff might have interpreted Mr R as being rude by replying no 
to someone asking if she can help him, and walking away to the counter. But from Mr Rs 
point of view, he wanted to visit the counter, so in that respect the member of staff couldnt have helped him if he thought she was just going to help him use the ATM, which he didnt 
want to use. 
Mr R may have felt that the staff member was speaking down to him or lecturing him, 
whereas the staff member may have just been explaining that he could deposit a cheque at 
an ATM and she could have helped him. 
Based on Mr Rs transactions that he told us he completed that day, the ATM wouldnt have 
been able to complete everything Mr R wanted to do, so its likely he would have been 
referred to the counter/another person regardless as he said he got a monthly statement on 
A4 paper, which the ATM would be unlikely to produce in this format. As Mr R didnt tell the 
staff member what he wanted to do when he entered the branch, the staff would not be 
aware at the time that the ATM couldnt facilitate everything he needed that day.
If Mr R felt the staff were being unhelpful, this could be frustrating, so if he raised his voice 
as he didnt want to use the ATM, or to object to a complaint being raised in branch, then 
Nationwide may have interpreted this as him shouting if it was in a louder voice than what he 
had previously spoken to them, while Mr R may have been frustrated at the situation and 
wanted to leave the branch without speaking to a manager, as my understanding is he didnt 
ask to speak to a manager. 
Ive then listened to the call that Mr R had with the complaint handler. Mr R recounts what 
happened in the branch, and the complaint handler tells him hes received statements from 
the branch as to their side of what happened and that Mr R was quite frustrated when he 
was greeted. Mr Rs voice audibly gets louder as he says I did not express any frustration 
until I reached the counter. The complaint handler asked Mr R to stop raising his voice, and 
Mr R said I dont wish to speak to you any further. Mr R asks for his managers name, 
which the complaint handler gives Mr R, and Mr R asks for the managers surname, which 
the call handler said he was not obliged to give that out. Mr R then tells the complaint 
handler he would be putting in a further complaint about the call handler and his manager 
and says goodbye. 
Im satisfied that the call handler was professional throughout this call and in line with 
Nationwides processes he wasnt obliged to give out any surnames or transfer the call to 
someone else, when he was a senior complaint handler. Im not persuaded that the request 
for Mr R to stop raising his voice was an unreasonable one as Mr Rs voice was audibly 
louder than when he first was on the call. So if Mr R had done the same thing in the branch, 
they may have considered this as shouting. 
Mr R was given a warning for this which would stay on his record for six months. He was told 
in the final response letter dated 28 April 2023 that he used a condescending tone and 
raised your voice towards our staff. You also continued to show this type of behaviour during 
our call together. As Mr R did raise his voice on the call with the complaint handler, Im 
unable to ask Nationwide to remove the warning from his profile. While Mr R may feel he 
was just trying to make himself clearer, he was clear prior to raising his voice, its just he and 
the complaint handler did not agree with the version of events that happened. So it follows I 
dont require Nationwide to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman