DRN-3161859
The complaint
Miss M complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly refused to pay her claim for vet costs 
under her horse insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2018 Miss M took out a horse insurance policy thats underwritten by QIC. A vet 
examined her horse in October 2018 and noted a left hind leg lameness, which the vet 
diagnosed as suspected hock osteoarthritis. The horse was noted to be lame in the front and 
hind legs in a further assessment in January 2019. The horse was treated and QIC accepted 
Miss Ms claims for the costs of that treatment. In February 2019 a second vet examined her 
horse and again noted lameness in the left hind leg. The vet initially used a nerve block to 
resolve the lameness and the horse then had surgery to treat bilateral hind proximal 
suspensory desmitis. About a month later, the horse had further surgery for a dorsal spinous 
process resection. In September 2019 Miss M claimed for the costs of surgery for both 
conditions. QIC said that it had treated both conditions as one claimable incident as per the 
terms of her policy. And as there was a limit of £3,000 per incident, it wouldnt pay for the 
treatment costs that exceeded that amount. 
Miss M appealed the decision, supported by the second vet. The vet said the two conditions 
shouldnt be linked as they arent anatomically or physiologically linked. QIC maintained its 
decision and when Miss M complained, it referred the matter to an independent vet. In his 
report, the independent vet supported the decision taken by QIC to treat both conditions as 
one incident. Miss M wasnt happy with the response so brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator thought QIC had assessed Miss Ms claims fairly and reasonably by treating 
the conditions as one claimable incident. He didnt think QIC needed to take any further 
action. As Miss M didnt agree with the investigators view, her complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms horse insurance policy with QIC says itll pay vet fees up to a maximum of £3,000 
per incident. The policy defines what it means by an incident. It says, a claimable incident 
under this policy is not judged on each separately diagnosed condition but is considered to 
be an onset of symptoms. If a horse presents with a symptom or set of symptoms, any 
diagnoses which arise out of that investigation, or subsequent related investigations, are 
considered together to be one claimable incident under the policy.
The question I need to answer is whether QIC acted reasonably in treating Miss Ms 
September 2019 claim as one incident. Or whether it should treat the conditions as separate 
incidents. Miss Ms vet says the proximal suspensory desmitis and the dorsal spinous 
process are anatomically and physiologically two structures that do not link together and are 
not related. So, Miss M thinks its unfair to treat the two as one linked claimable incident for 
the purposes of her insurance.
Theres no dispute the conditions arent anatomically linked. QIC has accepted that and the 
independent vet appointed by QIC acknowledged that in his report as well. But QIC has 
pointed to the terms of the policy where it says a claimable incident isnt judged on each 
separately diagnosed condition but is considered to be an onset of symptoms. And while it 
recognised this was a complex case resulting in a diagnosis of multiple conditions, its 
satisfied that those diagnosed conditions have arisen out of investigations into the same 
clinical signs. The independent vet also concluded that the two diagnosed conditions formed 
part of the same clinical presentation and as such can reasonably be considered to be one 
claimable incident. 
So, is that fair? Miss Ms policy explains that if a horse presents with a symptom or set of 
symptoms, any diagnoses which arise out of that investigation are considered together to be 
one claimable incident under the policy. The symptoms Miss Ms horse was exhibiting were 
consistent throughout the claims she made. The claim she made in October 2018 said her 
horse was slightly stiff in his hocks, wasnt going forwards and was showing abnormal 
behaviour when ridden. The vet said the horse was showing left hindlimb lameness, which 
they said was suspected hock osteoarthritis. The claim form Miss M sent to QIC in 
September 2019 said that her horse was lame and uncomfortable when ridden. And when 
asked when she first noticed the horse had suffered an accident or was sick, she said 
September 2018. As the independent vet said, both vets noted that the lameness was 
predominantly in the left hind leg. And the clinical notes dont contain any reference to a 
different clinical presentation for the proximal sensory desmitis and dorsal spinous process 
conditions. 
In light of the above, I think it was fair and reasonable for QIC to conclude that both 
conditions Miss M claimed for arose from investigations into the symptoms her horse had 
been displaying since September 2018. And so, I think it was fair for QIC to treat the claims 
as one claimable incident under the terms of her policy.
Miss M said the first vet she used misdiagnosed the symptoms her horse was displaying, 
and she thinks this had an impact on her claim. But I dont think thats the case. The policy 
makes it clear that a claimable incident isnt judged on each separately diagnosed condition 
but is considered to be an onset of symptoms. So, even if the first vet misdiagnosed the 
symptoms her horse was displaying, I dont think that affects my decision that QIC has acted 
fairly in treating her claims as one incident.
Im sorry to hear about Miss Ms horse and the problems shes experienced but, for the 
reasons given, I dont think QIC needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman