DRN-4121841
The complaint
Ms T and Mr A complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their travel insurance 
claim. My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
In July 2021 Ms T bought an annual multi-trip Comprehensive travel insurance policy 
through a phone call with a broker. Great Lakes is the insurer of the policy.
The policy insured Ms T and her companion, Mr A. The policy cover started on 20 August 
2021 and ended on 19 November 2022. In October 2021 Ms T booked a package trip 
abroad for them. They were due to depart on 21 December 2021.
Ms T and Mr A had to have a PCR or a lateral flow test for Covid-19 72 hours before flying. 
On 19 December 2021 Ms T tested positive for Covid-19. Mr A didnt test positive but as 
Ms T was his travel companion and carer they both cancelled their trip due to her illness and 
claimed on the policy.
When Ms T and Mr A claimed for their cancellation costs Great Lakes asked for proof of their 
Covid-19 vaccination status. Mr A provided his vaccination card and Ms T said she wasnt 
vaccinated.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the policy didnt provide cancellation cover where a 
policyholder had contracted Covid-19 and hadnt had the recommended vaccinations, or 
proof of the vaccinations.
Ms T and Mr A complained to us. In summary they said:
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Offices (FCDO) advice about travel to 
the relevant country at the time didnt require them to be vaccinated against Covid-
19.
When Ms T took out the policy it wasnt made clear to her that to be covered for 
Covid-19 she had to be vaccinated against Covid-19, if it had been made clear she 
wouldnt have bought the policy.
Great Lakes should at the very least pay Mr As cancellation costs as he had been 
vaccinated against Covid-19. The policy said he was covered if he had to cancel a 
trip if his travelling companion was diagnosed with Covid-19.
They wanted Great Lakes to pay all the cost of the cancelled holiday which was just 
over £5,000.
Our investigator said Great Lakes fairly declined the claim for Ms T and Mr As costs.
Ms T and Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
Im very sorry to see that sadly Ms T has told us Mr A has now passed away.
Before I made this decision we asked Ms T who had paid for the holiday claimed for. Ms T 
told us she paid for the holiday, as a birthday present to Mr A, and she showed us her credit 
card statement which showed she paid for the whole cost of the holiday. On the basis of that 
evidence I havent asked to see the documents for Mr As estate before making my decision. 
Thats because if I decide that Great Lakes has to pay all or part of the holiday costs Im 
satisfied Ms T has shown she paid for those costs, so the claim is for her loss and 
Great Lakes would reimburse Ms T.
Ms T said she wasnt told about the no Covid-19 vaccination policy exclusion when she 
bought the policy during a telephone sale and that should have been brought to her 
attention. Because Ms T bought the policy through a broker any mis-sale complaint has to 
be made to the broker. I understand Ms T has now raised a separate complaint on that 
matter.
Great Lakes is the insurer for the relevant sections of the policy and its responsible for the 
claim. My decision is about whether Great Lakes reasonably declined the claim. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Im intending to partly uphold the complaint as I think Great Lakes unreasonably declined the 
claim for the costs Ms T paid for Mr A. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
Section 14 COVID-19 Cover
What is covered for Cancellation and Cutting Short Your Trip:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the table of benefits 
forCancellationper insured person for any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs (and other prepaid charges) which you have paid or are 
contracted to pay, if you were not able to travel and use your booked accommodation 
or undertake the trip as a result of:
a) you, a close relative, a member of your household, travelling companion or 
any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip has a 
diagnosis of Covid-19 in the 14 days prior to your booked departure date
What is not covered...
14. any claim where you contract Covid-19 and you have not had the recommended 
vaccination(s) (consideration will be given where you were medically unable to have 
the vaccination, and this is shown in your medical records)18. any claim where you do not hold the required confirmation of vaccination 
documentation, for example a vaccination passport.
Regardless of the entry requirements of the country Ms T and Mr A were travelling to, the 
policy exclusion says if they didnt have the recommended Covid-19 vaccination(s) there 
was no policy cover unless theres a medical reason why they couldnt have the vaccine.
Ive seen no evidence that Ms T had a medical reason not to have the Covid-19 vaccination 
so I think Great Lakes could reasonably rely on the policy exclusion at point 14 to decline the 
claim for the costs relating to Ms T.
Ms T and Mr A raised with Great Lakes that at least Mr As costs should be paid as he was 
vaccinated. But Great Lakes used the policy definition of You  Each person named on the 
Validation Certificate, and for whom the required premium has been paid - to decline Mr As
costs.
Under a strict interpretation of the policy terms and policy definition of You Great Lakes 
could decline the claim for the costs relating to Mr A. But I also have to consider whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to decline the costs that related to 
Mr A. His travelling companion, Ms T, did get Covid-19 within 14 days of the start date of 
their travel, so there was an insured event. Mr A tested negative for Covid-19 and had his 
Covid-19 vaccinations and I think a reasonable consumers reading of the policy exclusions 
at points 14 and 18, using the common everyday definition of you, would be that if they 
didnt personally have Covid-19 and had the Covid-19 vaccination(s) the exclusions wouldnt 
apply to them. I think a reasonable consumer could understand they would be covered if 
they were vaccinated and the only reason they werent able to travel was because their 
travelling companion got Covid-19, which was Mr As situation.
I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for Great Lakes to pay the claim for the costs that 
related to Mr A, less the excess. The amount is within the policy limit. As Ms T has shown 
she paid for those costs, so its her loss, Great Lakes should pay those costs to Ms T to 
reimburse her for her loss and add interest as Ive detailed below.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Great Lakes or Ms T responded to my provisional decision by the date we gave to 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Great Lakes or Ms T have responded to my provisional decision Ive no reason to 
change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings 
I partly uphold this complaint as I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to 
decline the claim for costs that related to Mr A.
Putting things rightGreat Lakes must pay the claim for the costs that related to Mr A, less the excess, plus 
interest as detailed below. As Ms T has shown she paid for those costs, so its her loss, 
Great Lakes should pay those costs to Ms T to reimburse her for her loss.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay the claim for the 
costs that related to Mr A, less the excess, plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the date 
of the claim to the date of settlement. As Ms T has shown she paid those costs, so its her 
loss, Great Lakes Insurance SE should pay Ms T.
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Ms T how much its taken off. It should also 
give Ms T a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman