DRN-3989745
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) updated her new debit card 
details with an online retailer.
What happened
In July 2022, Mrs C contacted Nationwide to say that her Visa debit card (linked to her 
current account) was damaged. Nationwide sent her a replacement. And at the same time, 
advised the new card details to an online retailer  who had Mrs Cs old card registered 
already. I will call the online retailer X.
Mrs C complained. She said it wasnt right to automatically advise the card details to X, and 
she should have the right to do so herself. She said this was a data breach.
Nationwide said that Mrs Cs new card was re-advised to X. Mrs Cs old card was already 
registered with X and any recurring Visa payments would continue. This is done  
automatically to save customers the hassle of contacting merchants/retailers each time their 
card is replaced. If Mrs C wanted to stop using the Visa card with X, she should contact X 
directly. Nationwide didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. She said Nationwide acted reasonably. Mrs Cs 
replacement card was advised to X as the continuation of a subscription service. This was in 
Nationwides terms and conditions. Mrs Cs old card was registered with X, and it was 
reasonable for Nationwide to advise X of her new card details  so she could continue to 
shop with X.
Mrs C asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset  I want to clarify what Mrs Cs complaint is here. I listened to the call she had 
with our service in July 2022. She said that she felt it was wrong that her new card details 
were advised to X without asking her - and said this was a data breach. 
On the call, she said that the account with X was in her daughters name  and so this then 
caused some confusion when we looked at her complaint. I say this as our investigator 
asked questions of Mrs C and Nationwide about Mrs Cs daughters account with X  and 
this wasnt necessary given what Mrs Cs complaint was about, and it led to some confusion. 
Also, Nationwides final response and our investigator referred to Mrs Cs Visa card being 
used to pay for Xs monthly subscription service  but the card wasnt used for that, as Mrs C 
has shown us.
So to be clear  Mrs Cs complaint is about the fact that Nationwide advised her replacement 
Visa card details to X when her old card was replaced. 
Nationwide said this was done so that customers didnt have to contact retailers such as X 
when a card was replaced.  And  I can see that is a benefit to customers in most 
circumstances - as it enables them to continue to shop with the retailer without any hassle. 
But Ive gone on to consider Mrs Cs points. She says she should be given the option of not 
allowing it to be re-advised.
Nationwide showed us Visas terms and conditions - and these say that where a card is 
replaced, Recurring Visa payments are typically used for memberships with 
companies.stopping and replacing your card wont stop the payments being taken in 
future. To stop recurring payments please see stopping recurring Visa payments. So  
Nationwide were entitled to re-advise the new card details to X, and said the onus is on 
customers to contact retailers if they want to stop the card being used.
Nationwide also told us that its standard industry practice to advise retailers of new card 
details. And I can see why that would be the case  given how many replacement cards are 
issued all the time. I can also see that Mrs Cs old card was previously registered with X as a 
recurring payment card  so it seems to me to make sense to keep that arrangement in 
place.
I looked at Mrs Cs Nationwide statements from January 2021 to December 2022  and she 
made regular payments to X for purchases  there were more than 60. And of these, about 
30-35 were made with Mrs Cs replacement card  after July 2022. We asked Mrs C if she 
disputed any of the payments to X, and she didnt tell us of any. So - it seems to me she was 
happy to continue to use the card with X. Therefore, it was reasonable for Nationwide to 
advise X of her new card details.
In summary, having looked at Mrs Cs complaint, I think Nationwide acted reasonably and I 
wont be asking them to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman