DRN-2041030
The complaint
Mr E complains about delay in transfer of his SIPP investments from Alliance Trust Saving 
Limited (ATS) trading as Stocktrade (Stocktrade) because it says it cannot sell some of 
his investments.
What happened
Mr E says he has a SIPP where the investments are managed by Stocktrade. In 2005 he 
purchased shares in an overseas company using Stocktrade. When he asked to sell the 
shares in early 2019, he was told Stocktrade couldnt help as they didnt have the facility to 
sell this type of share. He said that ownership of Stocktrade had changed since he bought 
the shares and under the previous ownership this type of trade was possible. He felt that he 
shouldve been notified that future trades wouldnt be possible following the change in 
ownership and given the opportunity to sell before the change took place. But this wasnt 
done. Mr E says he couldnt manage the shares himself as they were in his SIPP and that he 
needed Stocktrade to help him dispose of them. Mr E first complained in April 2019 but didnt 
get an effective response until early August 2019. There was now a deadlock between the 
parties.
Stocktrade said that it offered an execution only service with an investment platform and the 
information and services customers needed to manage their investments in a way that works 
for them. It didnt provide any investment advice. In 2015 ATS bought the Stocktrade 
business and Mr Es account was migrated to ATSs management including this overseas 
stock. While it was able to hold the stock on the platform it couldnt trade it. It acknowledged 
that Mr E had complained in early April and twice in early May but didnt receive a response. 
It accepted that it had given poor service and offered £50 for distress and inconvenience.
Stocktrade confirmed that Mr Es proposed new SIPP provider couldnt receive a transfer in 
specie of the overseas stock. Stocktrade outlined options provided by the custodian of the 
shares. It said it could make a transfer to another provider able to receive the shares, and 
this would be free of charge. 
The investigator said hed considered whether Stocktrade had offered Mr E alternatives to 
transfer the stock. He thought theyd done what would reasonably be expected in this 
situation. He thought the offer of £50 compensation for poor customer service in dealing with 
the queries was reasonable. Stocktrade accepted the findings.
Mr E didnt agree. He said that when the ownership of Stocktrade was transferred to ATS it 
didnt cancel the liabilities of the old contract. Stocktrade didnt notify shareholders in 
advance of the change re the overseas share dealing facility so he wasnt given a chance to 
sell the shares when he couldve. He felt that they should therefore correct the problem. 
He had made many enquiries and couldnt find an alternative stockbroker capable of selling 
the shares and willing to sign up with his current SIPP provider. This was complicated further 
because all the rest of his shareholding had now been transferred to a new SIPP provider. 
While Stocktrade had provided details of how to transfer the stock to an alternative custodian 
it had not given any indication how it could be sold. 
Mr E said his existing SIPP provider now said that if the stock couldnt be sold it would have 
to unwind the transfer to the new SIPP provider such that all shares and cash already 
transferred would need to be returned. He felt one alternative was to direct Stocktrade to buy 
the shares itself. The investigator felt that Stocktrade gave a reasonable explanation of the 
option and he couldnt recommend they buy the shares themselves.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Es frustration as he cannot sell the stock as he wishes. I note however 
that this is an unusual overseas stock that isnt listed on one of the major stock exchanges. 
Mr E has not commented on the reasons he purchased this stock, who gave him advice to 
do so and whether any risk warnings were given about the future liquidity of the stock given 
it wasnt listed on one of the major exchanges. Mr E hasnt suggested that Stocktrade 
advised him to purchase the stock just that he was able to hold it through them. This 
supports Stocktrades position that it is an execution only platform and didnt advise on the 
original purchase.
I have the papers from the time of the transfer of ownership to ATS and note there was no 
indication that he wouldnt be able to sell this type of stock in future. Having questioned 
Stocktrade it appears that at the time Stocktrade still had relationships with counterparties 
who could do this, so it wouldve been possible to trade at that time.
I would expect a business to be able to vary its services from time to time not least due to 
changes in regulatory and commercial circumstances. Stocktrades service guide says it can 
be varied. So just because such trades were possible in the past doesnt mean that 
Stocktrade must continue to offer them for the future.
Stocktrade says such sales wouldve been done through counterparties or other third-party 
companies. It says the counterparties it used had ceased to offer a service for this type of 
stock. It said it wasnt given advance warning this was going to happen, so it wasnt able to 
warn clients in advance and give them an opportunity to trade. So, while I think it wouldve 
been good to give advance notice, it doesnt seem there is anything that Stocktrade couldve 
done to warn Mr E of the change.
This service has pressed Stocktrade for answers and it has said it couldnt find any UK 
based counterparty that would sell this type of stock. It also says its US dealing arm cant 
assist either. 
This is very frustrating and leaves Mr E without a means to sell the stock while it is held with 
Stocktrade. But it seems the marketplace of services has changed over the time since the 
stock was purchased around 15 years ago. This is reflected by the fact Stocktrade cannot 
arrange a trade and the fact Mr E has also had similar difficulties in finding another business 
who will enable him to sell the stock.
I have considered whether Stocktrade is obliged to arrange sales in this stock. But I dont 
think Stocktrade could ever guarantee it was able to arrange a sale of any stock. I say that 
as it would always depend on access to a suitable market with a willing buyer. In this case 
that access isnt available. So, I dont think I can conclude Stocktrade was under an 
obligation to arrange of sale of this stock irrespective of the circumstances. 
I note that Mr E asked Stocktrade to buy the stock, but it has declined. I dont think I can 
reasonably direct it does this. I say that because it is an execution only platform that arranges transactions without advice. I dont think I can reasonably direct it to buy stock itself 
which wasnt part of its normal service to Mr E.
I note that Stocktrade have said that any transfer to a new custodian will be without charge 
and other potential custodians have been identified. I appreciate that a change in custodian 
may still leave Mr E unable to sell his stock but it I think Stocktrade has been helpful in 
confirming it will allow the transfer without charge.
On balance I dont think Stocktrade has acted unreasonably and wasnt able to give advance 
warning to Mr E. I think Stocktrade has done all that I could reasonably expect in the 
circumstances. I appreciate and am sorry that this decision leaves Mr E needing to reverse 
his SIPP transfer.
For the reasons given I cannot uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman