DRN-2749570
The complaint
Miss O complains that Covea Insurance plc trading as Provident Insurance has charged 
her for the recovery of her vehicle and failed to renew her policy when she asked. 
What happened
In December 2019 Miss O took out a car insurance policy with roadside assistance through 
a price comparison website. In November 2020 Miss O made a complaint to Covea by e-
mail about the £100 Covea charged her after she needed roadside assistance.  Later that 
month, Miss O e-mailed Covea again about the complaint and to ask about the renewal of 
her policy. 
On 5 December 2020 the policy lapsed. Miss O called Covea a few days later where she 
was offered a new policy which had to be paid up front, rather than by direct debit which is 
what she wanted. Covea reviewed the complaint but didnt refund the recovery charge. 
However, it did offer Miss O £50 for the trouble and upset it had caused when dealing with 
her complaint. 
Miss O remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. She said Covea 
should refund her the £100 recovery charge and pay compensation for not renewing her 
policy. She added that after her policy had lapsed, and she was offered a new policy, this 
had led to a cancellation marker being put against her name which made it difficult to get 
insurance with other providers. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Miss O wasnt covered 
for the recovery of her vehicle under her policy, so Covea had correctly charged her £100. 
He said that Covea had sent correspondence to Miss O making her aware that in order to 
renew her policy she had to call its helpline or log in through its online system. He added that 
it was up to Covea to decide if it wanted to offer a direct debit payment option. And he felt 
the £50 it had offered Miss O was fair. 
Miss O disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Covea has caused her 
trouble and upset when it didnt renew her policy which meant she found it difficult to find 
insurance elsewhere. She thinks Covea should pay her £400  not £50. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Miss O feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Reimbursing Miss O for the breakdown recovery charge
Ive reviewed the policy documentation here and I note that the recovery of Miss Os car isnt 
covered within the policy wording. The policy schedule only says that roadside assistance 
was selected. So, Im afraid I cant ask Covea to refund charges which arent covered by the 
policy. 
Covea has supplied a copy of an e-mail it says it sent to Miss O when the policy was set up 
in 2019 inviting her to log into her account and download the terms and conditions. It also 
said she could ask for a copy to be sent to her if she wanted. So, Im satisfied Miss O had 
the opportunity to check whether she was adequately covered. If Miss O thinks she did 
select a different level of cover, that point will have to be directed to the price comparison 
website she purchased the policy through. 
Renewal of the policy
Ive seen copies of e-mails, a text message and letters Covea sent to Miss Os e-mail in 
November 2020 making her aware of the policy being up for renewal shortly. The e-mails 
and letters make her aware of how she can renew her policy  by either logging into the 
online system or calling the helpline. 
One of the e-mails was sent by Covea on 28 November shortly before her renewal deadline, 
but this wasnt received by Miss O due to a system error. Its unfortunate one of the e-mails 
wasnt sent to Miss O about her renewal. But Im satisfied Covea had already made her 
sufficiently aware of the steps she needed to take to renew her policy on Coveas online 
system or by calling the helpline. So, I dont think Covea treated Miss O unfairly by not 
renewing her policy here. 
Miss O is unhappy that Covea didnt offer her a new policy which she could pay for by direct 
debit. Its up to Covea to make a decision on whether it wants to offer a policy to be paid by 
direct debit or if it wants this to be paid up front. And in this instance, its said its system 
didnt offer the option to pay by direct debit following a soft credit check. Its not for me to 
interfere with this decision by Covea if it doesnt want to accept a payment via direct debit for 
one of its policies. 
Cancellation and Coveas handling of the complaint
Miss O believes a cancellation marker has been placed against her name which led to her 
having trouble getting insurance elsewhere. Covea has said it hasnt placed an external 
marker against Miss Os name and that it isnt its policy to add an external marker against a 
customers name for a lapsed policy or when a quotation isnt accepted. I note Miss O had 
some trouble obtaining another insurance policy after she made the complaint, but Ive not 
seen any persuasive evidence this was a result of any marker being placed against her 
name by Covea. 
I note Miss O made a complaint about the recovery charges. Covea attempted to call her 
about this issue but didnt follow this up when Miss O didnt pick up the call. Covea has 
offered £50 for the trouble and upset this caused. Im satisfied thats a fair offer and in line 
with what Id expect to see in similar cases. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 Mark Dobson
Ombudsman