DRN-3094799
The complaint
Mr P complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) who wouldnt assess his 
claim, made under his gadget insurance. 
What happened
Mr P lost his mobile phone and contacted AGI to make a claim. It requested documentation 
in order to assess Mr Ps claim. AGI requested proof of address as well as screenshots of Mr 
Ps cloud storage account. 
Mr P provided the proof of address via the electoral roll and his driving licence, which AGI 
accepted. But Mr P said that he was unable to provide the cloud storage proof, as he 
couldnt recall his password for the account, so he raised a complaint with AGI.  He also 
complained about the time it had taken AGI to deal with this complaint.
In its final response, it said that there hadnt been any delay. AGI had attempted on a few 
occasions, to contact Mr P to progress the claim, but those attempts were unsuccessful. It 
explained that it assessed each claim based on individual merit, which meant that it was 
unable to request all required documents at the start of the claim. Also, that it reserved the 
right to investigate all claims as thoroughly as it deemed necessary in order to ensure a fair 
and accurate assessment was completed.
AGI said it needed the cloud account information, as it had found that the phone was now 
registered to another number, on another provider in another country. It concluded that if Mr 
P were to submit the cloud storage information, it would assess his claim. 
Mr P was unhappy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that it 
was usual business practice for insurers to request further information for claims to be 
validated. He said that the information that AGI had found was that the phone was registered 
to another mobile phone number as well as being in another country and provider. And 
because of this it was reasonable that AGI wanted more information, such as the 
screenshots from the cloud storage to validate the claim. He recommended that Mr P 
provide those screenshots for AGI to assess his claim. 
AGI accepted the view, Mr P did not. Mr P said that AGI wanted inadequate things that were 
not in his favour and questioned what grounds did it have to ask for the further documents. 
So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that Mr P will be disappointed 
with this outcome, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
Mr P took out the policy which covered his mobile phone for loss amongst other things. 
During the assessment of this claim, Mr P was asked to provide proof of address. Mr P 
provided evidence of being on the electoral register and his driving licence and Im satisfied 
that these were accepted by AGI, as nothing further has been raised regarding this. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether AGI were reasonable to request further 
information from Mr P, to assess his claim. I have considered the terms and conditions of the 
policy, as well as why AGI requested the further information and whether this request was 
fair and reasonable.
In the policy terms and conditions, it provided details of how claims are made. It says: We 
will walk you through the simple claims process and tell you what information you will need 
to provide for us to assess your claim. So, I think AGI did tell Mr P that information would be 
likely to be required, for it to assess a claim. 
During the investigations carried out by AGI, it found that the lost phone had been registered 
to another mobile phone number, another mobile phone provider and in another country. 
AGI said that it confirmed with Mr P that nobody had access to his cloud account
and requested evidence from it to show that the phone was registered there and that he had 
reported the phone as lost, so that it would be locked for any user. AGI said that screenshots 
from the cloud account were required to proceed with the claim.
Mr P said that he was unable to access his cloud account as he had been a victim of a crime 
and had suffered injuries. This meant that he had forgotten the password to the account. I 
am sorry to hear that Mr P was a victim of crime. But  I note that the incident in which he was 
injured, post-dates AGIs request for the information from Mr Ps cloud account. From 
January 2021 until April 2021, AGI requested Mr P provide it with the cloud account 
screenshots. 
Mr P sent me details about the incident that caused his injuries, which happened in June 
2021, so a few months after AGI had been requesting the information. Whilst I understand 
that Mr P had forgotten his password to the cloud account, I can see that he was given 
instructions on how to reset the password to enable him to access his cloud account. I have 
had a look at the instructions which gives details on how to reset a password. Mr P has not 
said why he was unable to follow those steps and reset his password. 
In addition, if Mr P felt unable to follow the instructions on how to reset the password, then it 
was available to him to contact the phone manufacturer who could assist him in doing this if 
he wanted to. But at this point without the information from the cloud, AGI are not able to 
assess Mr Ps claim. 
If Mr P were to provide the information, then I would expect AGI to assess his claim. But 
currently, Im not satisfied that AGI had been unreasonable in not assessing his claim, in the 
absence of the cloud information it had requested. 
Overall, I think AGI applied the policy terms fairly. I think that its request for the additional 
information was fair and reasonable given the information it had retrieved about the phone. 
So, I cant reasonably ask AGI to do anything more to resolve this complaint, without the 
further information requested. My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman