DRN-1984046
 
The complaint
Mr F says Western Circle Ltd  trading as Cashfloat - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Cashfloat provided to Mr F between   
September 2018 and July 2019. Mr Fs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 30/09/2018 30/11/2018 2 £200.00 £137.19
2 30/11/2018 28/02/2019 3 £400.00 £199.56
3 28/02/2019 06/06/2019 4 £500.00 £201.69
4 31/07/2019 Outstanding 4 £600.00 £242.80
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Fs complaint and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given because proportionate checks would have shown Mr F was struggling to manage his 
money. Cashfloat disagreed and said Mr F was in the early stages of borrowing with it and it 
had done additional checks which were reasonable at this stage. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator thought Cashfloat had carried out proportionate checks for loans 1 to 3. Mr F 
didnt respond to the view. As there is no dispute with the adjudicators opinion about these 
loans, I wont be making any findings on them. 
Cashfloat says it carried out checks before it lent loan 4 to Mr F and the results of these 
checks didnt raise any concerns. But as this was Mr Fs fourth loan in ten months, I think 
Cashfloat should have been looking to build a clearer picture about Mr Fs finances before 
lending him this loan. 
Had Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks before lending loan 4, its likely to have found 
that Mr F was borrowing from other short-term lenders. The repayments for these loans 
would have been increasing his monthly outgoings. This behaviour was most likely an 
indication he was in a cycle of debt and was further borrowing to cover the hole that repaying 
his previous loans was leaving in his finances. 
Additionally, Mr F had been in debt with Cashfloat almost continuingly during this ten-month 
period. Each time Mr F had repaid a loan he needed to borrow again shortly afterwards. For 
example, he took out loans 2 and 3 on the same day he had repaid the previous loan.      
Loan 4 was for significantly more than the amount he originally borrowed. It was likely this 
behaviour of indebtedness was becoming increasingly more difficult to sustain. I think this 
has been shown by the fact the balance on loan 4 remains outstanding. 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 4 and Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things right
If Cashfloat has sold the outstanding debt Cashfloat should buy it back if Cashfloat is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Cashfloat cant buy the debt back, then Cashfloat 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.A) Cashfloat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 4, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr F as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
loan 4. If this results in Mr F having made overpayments then Cashfloat should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then Cashfloat should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr F. Cashfloat shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal Cashfloat has already written-off.
C) Cashfloat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation 
to loan 4. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Western Circle Ltd 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman