DRN-3621421
The complaint
Mr B complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) attempts to repair 
his car following a claim he made under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr B was involved in an accident and his car was damaged. He made a 
claim to AA and it arranged for repairs to be carried out. There were issues with the quality 
of the work. Mr B had to liaise with the garage and AA for remedial repairs to be completed. 
The car was eventually referred to the main dealer where it was found that further work was 
needed. This meant ordering components involving long delays.
AA says after the initial repairs were carried out a fault with the steering rack was identified 
with Mr Bs car. It says the part was on back order and not expected for several months. It 
says because of the delays it offered Mr B a settlement payment for £21,500. It also offered 
£400 for the poor customer journey he had experienced. 
Mr B wanted more compensation. He says he spent a lot of time liaising with and visiting the 
garages involved as well as with AA. He says he has been prescribed with anti-depressants 
as a result of this experience and has lost income. 
Mr B paid for his car to be serviced by the main dealer. He says he agreed that once the car 
was repaired to its pre-accident condition it could be serviced and MOTd. But he says this 
was done prior to the repairs being completed. He hasnt had the car returned and so hasnt 
benefitted from the car being serviced. Mr B wants the cost of the service reimbursed. 
AA didnt think it should reimburse the cost of the service. It says it thinks there may be 
some confusion as to whether the car was written-off. But the car wasnt written-off it was 
repairable and so a service was required regardless of its decision to offer a settlement 
payment. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He didnt 
think it was fair that Mr B had to pay for a service when the car wasnt returned to him. He 
also thought £600 compensation in total was a fairer amount, because of the poor service 
and delays. Mr B accepted our investigators view but AA didnt think this was fair and asked 
for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Let me explain.
AA arranged for Mr Bs car to be sent to one of its approved garages to be repaired, 
following his accident. From the records provided the repairs were completed by the end of 
November 2021. Mr B noticed a number of issues with the car when it was returned to him 
and this meant it had to be sent back for further work to be carried out. This happened 
several times. I can see that issues with panel gaps were highlighted around the bonnet and 
lights. Mr B also reported hearing a knocking noise, the low battery warning was showing, 
and a tyre was deflating. He felt these issues were all related to the accident. 
It was agreed that the main dealer for Mr Bs type of car would examine the outstanding 
issues. Investigations continued through January 2022 and further problems were identified, 
including an issue with the steering rack. From the records delays were anticipated when 
obtaining the parts needed for the repair. The notes show this could be up to six months. 
The parts arrived sooner than this and Mr Bs car was reported to have been repaired in mid-
February 2022, AA arranged for an engineer to inspect the car, to assess the repairs that 
had been completed. Mr B met with the engineer and they both test drove the car. Mr B 
reported noticing vibrations through the steering wheel that werent present before the crash. 
He also highlighted an issue with the stop/start feature and an area where the paint was 
scratched. The engineer comments that the test drive was brief as the car ran out of fuel. 
Following the engineers inspection and the test drive with Mr B, the engineer proposed that 
Mr B should drive the car as normal for a period and report back any issues. He says the car 
may feel different to Mr B as he has been driving a different car for a period. He says he may 
need to give it some time to settle after the repairs and to get used to it again. The engineer 
thought the outstanding issues appeared relatively minor and could be repaired by AAs 
approved garage. However, he noted that Mr B wasnt confident in the repairs that had been 
carried out and didnt want to take the car back.  
Throughout March 2022 the records show Mr B chased progress on the outstanding repairs 
on a number of occasions. At the beginning of April, the car was returned to Mr B. I can see 
from the notes that he raised concerns with the steering and told AA that he didnt think the 
car was safe to drive. After several more calls from Mr B the decision was made to provide a 
settlement payment for £21,500. There was a delay in providing the payment. From the 
records this wasnt sent until just over two weeks after it had been agreed.  
Because of the ongoing issues with the repairs, the delays, and Mr Bs lack of confidence 
that his car was fixed, I think AAs decision to offer a settlement payment was fair. I also 
think it was fair to offer Mr B compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused by the delays and poor handling of his claim. AA accepts that Mr B didnt have a 
good customer journey in its final response to his complaint  and offered £400 
compensation.  
We expect an insurer to carry out effective repairs to a good standard and in a timely 
manner. Its clear there were a number of issues with the work AAs approved repairer 
carried out. Mr B spent a significant amount of time liaising with this garage and the main 
dealer when arranging for his car to be inspected and for repairs to be completed. AAs 
repairer didnt identify the problem with the steering. This required prompting and 
persistence from Mr B for the matter to be investigated by the main dealer  where issues 
were then identified.
The claim was first registered at the beginning of November 2021. Because of delays and 
problems carrying out the repairs, it wasnt until the end of April 2022 that Mr B received the 
settlement payment. I note Mr Bs reference to this matter causing him a lot of distress, that 
it has impacted on his work and that he has been prescribed anti-depressants as a result. 
Im sorry to hear of this impact all of this has had on Mr B. I hope he is now feeling better. 
In these circumstances I think a higher compensation payment for £600 is appropriate. This is to acknowledge the failings in the service Mr B received from AA and the impact this had 
on him. I havent seen evidence to support a claim for lost earnings as a result of the issues 
discussed here. So, Im satisfied £600 is appropriate to compensate Mr B for the problems 
described. 
I have thought about Mr Bs comments that he paid for a service, whilst his car was still with 
the main dealer undergoing investigation and repairs. I agree that he hasnt benefitted from 
the service as AA kept the car. I also note his comments that he didnt agree to a service 
being carried out until the car had been repaired in full - but that the garage carried out the 
service anyway. 
AA says that the car was due a service, so Mr B wouldve had to pay for this regardless of it 
agreeing to settle his claim with a cash payment. I acknowledge its view that it isnt 
responsible for paying for this. 
I understand AAs argument, but Mr B expected his car to be repaired and to receive it back. 
Ultimately a settlement payment was agreed because of the ongoing issues with AA 
repairing the car. I think this was a fair way to settle the claim because of the ongoing issues. 
But I dont think Mr B will have agreed to pay for a service had he known he wouldnt get his 
car back. The payment was offered because of the problems with AA arranging an effective 
and timely repair of the car. In the circumstances I think its fair that AA reimburses Mr B for 
the cost of this service. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think AA treated Mr B fairly when arranging for his car to 
be repaired. I think its settlement payment was fair, but it should pay a total of £600 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. AA should also reimburse Mr B for the cost of the 
service, which is a cost he incurred due to the issues that occurred in it arranging the 
repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited should:
pay a total of £600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr B 
experienced; and
reimburse Mr B with the cost of the service that was carried out whilst attempts were 
being made to repair his car. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman