DRN-3216000
The complaint
Mr G complains that Wise Payments Limiteds payment processes disadvantaged him when 
he fell victim to a scam. To put things right, he is seeking compensation for his loss, 
improved systems and for Wise to have a formal fraud investigation system like a clearing 
bank.  
What happened
On 5 June 2020, Mr G was tricked by fraudsters into making a payment of €6,000 from his 
personal Wise payments profile. The fraudsters impersonated an organisation well known to 
Mr G and sent him an email regarding an account that needed an urgent settlement. Mr G 
has explained the scam was so sophisticated someone else at the organisation thought it 
was genuine when he checked before going ahead. 
Mr G uncovered the scam very quickly and contacted Wise straight away. But Wise told him 
it was too late as the funds had already been sent. It said that there was nothing more that 
could be done. 
Mr G explains that he has used Wise to make payments in the past and there has been a 
delay enabling him to cancel a payment if necessary. On this occasion, Mr G made a faster 
payment directly from his bank account using the Open Banking process embedded into 
Wises payment journey. 
Wise said all transfers completed are final and cannot be reversed or recalled. Unhappy with 
the position, Mr G raised a complaint. He did not consider that Wise had a proper procedure 
for handling fraud cases. He felt Wises process were deficient because they did not alert 
him to the potential pitfalls of making a faster payment and did not do enough to protect him 
when he was sending a large sum of money to new payee. He said that Wise did nothing 
except tell him there was nothing it could do. 
Wise said it had completed the payment as Mr G had instructed. It confirmed that it had 
contacted the beneficiary to try and recover the funds that had been sent. 
Our Investigator considered the matter but did not recommend it should be upheld. She 
recognised this was the largest transfer Mr G had ever made from his Wise account and that 
it was being sent to a payee hed not paid before. But she didnt think Wise would have been 
able to stop the scam if it had contacted Mr G to discuss the payment further. She noted that 
Mr G had already contacted the organisation directly and checked the details with someone 
there who confirmed it to be a genuine instruction. She suggested that relying on a delay in 
funds reaching an account wasnt a good way to safeguard funds, especially as payment 
methods are now fast and efficient. 
Mr G didnt agree with the Investigators view. He explained the payment option he selected 
did not explain to him that it would be an instant transfer. He asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed afresh by an Ombudsman and added further points to be taken into consideration. 
In summary, he said:
He had used Wise for some time before the scam happened and all previous 
payments have taken several hours to place, sometimes overnight and over a 
weekend if initiated on a Friday. This was the first time a payment had been 
instantaneous. 
There is an option on the Wise website to cancel a transfer which he has 
successfully used once before. 
Generally, there is no guidance or advice given by Wise when setting up payments or 
making transfers. Wise does not make it clear that the option to cancel a transfer 
doesnt always work or offer protection. 
He made the scam payment using a method which was presented as being more 
convenient by connecting directly to his bank account, but no warnings or 
precautionary information was provided. 
There was a defect in Wises processes as its response said it was going to take 
certain measures to prevent others from falling victim to the same scam.
My further investigation 
When the complaint was allocated to me, I contacted Wise to confirm that Mr G had made 
an Open Banking faster payment and obtained copies of screenshots to show how that 
payment journey would have appeared to Mr G at the relevant time. 
I asked Mr G if hed contacted his bank. He confirmed that he had but it did not lead 
anywhere as it told him to pursue the matter directly with Wise. 
After reviewing the screenshots of the payment journey, I contacted Wise to ask it if it would 
have been possible for Mr G to have cancelled a manual payment at the time he uncovered 
the scam to see if he had been left in a worse position. I also asked Wise about the option to 
cancel payments as it was unclear how and when that would be possible. 
Mr G provided details of occasions he had been able to cancel payments in the past. He 
explained that the ability to be able to cancel a payment was a form of back of mind 
reassurance. 
Wise explained that a customer is unable to cancel once a payment is completed by the 
funds being converted into the target currency and sent to the beneficiary account details. It 
said he would have needed to have initiated cancellation before the transfer was paid out to 
the intended recipient bank details. 
I contacted Mr G and indicated that it was difficult to say with the required degree of certainty 
that he would have been able to stop the payment if it had been made another way. 
Mr G explained that everything he had learned about using Wise has been through trial and,  
unfortunately, error. He asked for a decision to finalise my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I can find no basis on which I could fairly and reasonably ask Wise to take 
responsibly to refund the money Mr G has lost. I can appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr G 
was hoping for, so I will explain why. 
Theres no question that Mr G has been the victim of a scam. Hes lost a lot of money 
through no fault of his own. But that alone doesnt mean that Wise must reimburse him. 
It would only be fair for me to say that Wise should refund Mr Gs loss if it has failed in some 
way resulting in the loss. I have first thought about whether Wise could have done more to 
prevent the scam from taking place or intervened so that Mr G would have realised what was 
happening and stopped before sending the money.
This was an authorised transaction even though Mr G was the victim of a sophisticated 
scam. He authorised the payment and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
 - Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams.
 - Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which payment service 
providers are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
 - In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
Im mindful that Mr G had been a Wise customer for over four years at the time he 
unwittingly made the payment to the fraudster. Whilst it wasnt unusual for him to make 
international payments from time to time, this payment was more than five times more than 
he'd ever paid previously. Wise should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
situations, such as a customer making a larger payment then they would typically make to a 
new payee. These can be indicators that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of 
a scam.
Ive thought about whether Wise ought to have known that Mr G was at the risk of financial 
harm from fraud when making this payment. Even if Wise had been concerned and had 
taken steps to find out more about the payment Mr G was making, Im not persuaded it 
would have made a difference to the position Mr G now finds himself in. The scam that Mr G 
fell victim to was sophisticated. The request for payment came into Mr Gs inbox purporting 
to be from a recipient that was known to him and with a plausible reason for contacting him. 
In addition to this, Mr G contacted the genuine organisation that the payment request was 
purporting to be from and spoke to another member of staff who verified it as being 
legitimate. This is most unfortunate as the organisation could have stopped the scam in its 
tracks at that point. But even if Wise had been concerned enough about the payment to 
make further enquiries about it, I think Mr G would have been able to satisfy it that he wasnt 
at any risk of financial harm from fraud. I think its most likely Mr G would have told Wise that 
hed spoken to the organisation directly and verified the payment request. This would have 
been very powerful and sufficient to allay any concerns Wise may have had about the payment. It is exactly the action Wise would have most likely recommended that Mr G take 
to protect himself if it had identified he was at risk of falling victim to an email interception 
scam. 
As I dont think Wise acted incorrectly by making the payment, Ive gone on to consider 
whether it should have refunded Mr G for any other reason, which includes consideration of 
whether its payment processes and systems have disadvantaged him on this occasion.
Wise are not a bank and it is not a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code. This means it does not have to reimburse a 
customer who is the victim of an authorised push payment scam because of any obligation 
under this Code. 
Ive thought about what Wise did after it found out about the scam. Mr G is concerned that it 
should have done more to investigate the fraud and that its processes are defective. I can 
see that Wise did try to contact the beneficiary and recall the funds. It also took steps to try 
and block the fraudster from continuing to use its services. Wise is limited in what it can do 
but contacting the beneficiary bank to see if it can recover any of the money thats been sent 
was the appropriate action for it to have taken. Wise did not receive any response from the 
beneficiary bank. Sadly, this is not unusual. The likelihood of funds being recoverable after a 
scam is slim as fraudsters tend to be waiting for the funds to arrive and then move the 
money on immediately upon receipt. 
Ive also thought about the way Mr G made the payment and whether he is any worse off as 
a result of making an Open Banking faster payment as oppose to manually making a faster 
payment from his bank to Wise himself and then instigating the transfer onwards from there. 
Mr G has provided details to show that some of the payments that he has made in the past 
have had processing times, but others are executed within minutes of the funds arriving. 
Ive thought about whether Mr G would have been able to cancel the payment if hed made a 
manual faster payment instead of using the Open Banking faster payment option that was 
integrated into the payment. But it is difficult for me to say with the required degree of 
certainty that Mr G would have been able to stop the payment if it had been made another 
way. Wise has been clear that Mr G would have needed to initiate cancellation before the 
transfer was paid to the recipient bank details because it is not possible to cancel once the 
funds have been converted into the target currency. But a manual faster payment generated 
by Mr G logging directly into bank account is most likely to still arrive with Wise as a faster 
payment rather than a slower BACS payment.
Looking at Mr Gs bank account statement, I can see that other payments hes made to Wise 
went over as faster payments even though they were manual payments rather than Open 
Banking payments. Faster payments usually arrive instantly, or within a couple of minutes at 
most. It is uncommon for a faster payment to take longer than this. I think it's more likely 
than not that a manual payment on that ill-fated day would have arrived as a faster payment 
too. As the payment Mr G made to the fraudster was processed very quickly by Wise when 
the funds arrived, I have no reason to think it would have been any different had Mr G 
logged into his online banking himself to send the money across to Wise rather than having 
Wise initiate it from within the integrated app. For this reason, I do not think Mr G lost the 
opportunity to cancel the payment and prevent his loss. 
Mr G is right when he notes that the embedded faster payment contained no warnings or 
guidance about who he was paying. The standards that apply to an Open Banking payment 
mean that by its design, it is quicker and has less friction. I am not a regulator, so I do not 
have the power to change those rules and processes and I cannot compel Wise to introduce 
friction such as warnings or additional guidance in situations where it is not obligated to do so. 
Mr G has my considerable sympathies. But having looked closely at the payment he made, 
I dont think Wise treated him unfairly when it concluded that it was not responsible for 
refunding the money Mr G has lost. For the reasons I have explained, there are no grounds 
on which I could say that Wise should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for 
Mr Gs loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman