DRN-3192496
The complaint
Mr N complained that Aviva Insurance Limited damaged his property when handling a claim 
under his home emergency insurance policy. 
Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Mr N has home emergency insurance, which is underwritten by Aviva. In January 2021 he 
contacted Aviva because of a problem with his storage heater. Aviva sent an engineer to 
inspect the heater. But as the heater was a discontinued model, it said it couldnt find parts 
to repair it. So, it ordered an equivalent heater and returned to Mr Ns property in early 
February 2021 to fit it. The heater didnt fit flush to the skirting board so the engineer 
suggested Mr N get a joiner to cut the skirting and they would then return to fit the heater. 
While re-packaging the new heater, the engineer dropped it onto the floor, causing some 
damage. The engineer returned about a week later and fitted the new heater. 
Mr N complained to Aviva about the damage to his floor. Aviva apologised for the damage 
caused and said it would arrange for a company (the repair company) to repair the damage. 
It said it was confident they would be able to complete the repair. But said if, for any reason, 
they were unable to complete the repair, or the repair wasnt to an adequate standard, it 
would consider providing a cash settlement to replace all of the flooring which runs 
continuously in Mr Ns flat. Aviva also offered Mr N £100 for the poor communication, and 
the inconvenience caused by having to repair the damage it had caused.
Mr N wasnt happy with Avivas offer and brought his complaint to this service. He wasnt 
confident the repair company would be able to provide a satisfactory finish to his floor. He 
said he wanted a cash settlement. 
Our investigator thought Avivas offer to repair Mr Ns flooring in the first instance was 
reasonable and the fairest solution. He also thought the £100 offered by Aviva was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
As Mr N didnt agree with the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Ns home emergency policy says it doesnt provide cover for any damage to 
the property, including its flooring, unless the damage was the result of an engineers 
negligence. As the damage in this instance was caused by its engineer, Im satisfied Aviva 
needs to take responsibility for the damage caused to Mr Ns floor when the engineer 
dropped the new storage heater. But whats the fairest way of putting things right?
Aviva has offered to repair the damage, although its also said itll consider providing a cash 
settlement to replace all of Mr Ns flooring if, for whatever reason, the repair is inadequate. I 
think thats a reasonable offer. Ive seen photographs of the damage caused and I think its 
fair to say the size and extent of the damage is minimal. So, I dont think it would be 
proportionate to expect Aviva to replace all of the flooring in Mr Ns property, which would be 
costly, without first being given an opportunity to repair the damage.
I can understand Mr Ns concern that the repair might not be adequate. But Aviva has said 
its confident the repair company will be able to complete the repair and said they provide a 
12-month guarantee. I think its provided a reasonable assurance that the repair will be done 
to a good quality standard. And, if its not, Aviva has said it will then discuss providing a cash 
settlement to replace the floor.
Mr N has also said he doesnt trust a company he doesnt know much about to complete the 
repair. Aviva has told this service it would be prepared to pay Mr N the cash equivalent of 
the amount it would cost Aviva to repair the damage. So, if Mr N would prefer to repair the 
damage himself or source a different company to repair the damage, he would need to 
contact Aviva and allow the repair company to assess the damage so it can provide an 
accurate quote. I think thats a fair offer and another way of resolving this matter.
The damage caused by Avivas engineer has meant Mr N has been put through a certain 
amount of trouble and upset that would have been unnecessary had they not dropped the 
heater onto his floor. Aviva has acknowledged the problems its caused, apologised for them 
and offered to pay Mr N £100. And, in light of the above, I think that amount is a fair and 
reasonable way to recognise the poor service provided. I dont think Aviva needs to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has offered to pay Mr N £100 to settle the complaint and I think that 
amount is fair in all the circumstances. It should pay that amount to Mr N if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman