DRN-1608356
 
The complaint
Mr D, on behalf of 1Click Cleaning Limited, complains about problems accessing his 
company's online TSB Bank plc account. 
What happened
Mr D says he tried to access the business account of 1, but experienced a number of 
problems. He says he spoke to TSB about this, and his details were changed, but he still 
experienced online access problems. Mr D says he spent a considerable amount of time on 
calls to TSB and the problem had an impact on the business. He would like TSB to explain 
what took place and pay the company compensation.
TSB accepts Mr D, on behalf of his company, received poor service. It also accepts there 
were a number of calls between it and Mr D. And the problems may have been caused by 
Mr D using his personal details to log into the business account. It's offered £30 for the call 
costs and £50 compensation. It also says part of the problem may have been caused by a 
change of password to a new password, that was too similar to the previous one. And that 
Mr D would have been unaware of that.
Mr D brought the complaint to us and our investigator upheld it and recommended TSB 
increase its compensation to £150 from £50. The investigator thought TSB couldn't explain 
what had taken place and could have done more to have helped Mr D when he called. The 
investigator thought TSB could have explored other options with Mr D.
Mr D accepts that view but TSB doesn't and says the compensation paid is fair and 
reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view that TSB ought to increase its compensation offer.
There is no doubt here that TSB didn't provide Mr D with appropriate service when he called 
about the access problems. I can see that TSB accept that and has apologised for what took 
place. And has explained what may have been part of the problem- that Mr D was using a 
new password similar to the previous one. So I have no doubt Mr D's company was caused 
inconvenience and that a considerable amount of time was spent by Mr D on behalf of the 
company to sort matters out. 
I don't think £50 compensation goes far enough or is fair and reasonable. I have explained 
that there were numerous calls made between the parties and I've not seen any evidence 
that TSB explained the problem with the passwords. I think if it had and also explained to Mr 
D that he may have been mixing up his login details, then the problems could have sorted 
out far earlier.Overall whilst I appreciate TSB has explained to us what it thinks is more likely to have taken 
place. I think it could have done more to help Mr D when he first made contact with it. For 
those reasons I find that TSB should increase its compensation to £150. I accept that it 
doesn't appear Mr D's company suffered any direct financial loss as a result of what took 
place.
Putting things right
I intend to order TSB to increase the compensation in this case to £150.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order TSB Bank plc to pay 1Click 
Cleaning Limited a further £100 compensation in addition to the compensation previously 
paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 1Click Cleaning 
Limited to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman