DRN-3157158
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the advisory services he received from Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd (Quilter) in relation to his investment into the Woodford Equity Income Fund 
(WEIF).
What happened
In 2016 Mr C was advised by his long-standing adviser from a business Quilter is now 
responsible for to invest a proportion of his defined benefit pension transfer monies into the 
WEIF as part of a wider investment portfolio.
At the time the WEIF was investing in larger companies providing equity and was a 
successful equity producing fund with a medium risk level.
However, as the years continued the funds investment strategy changed with more 
investments being made in smaller companies which were unquoted and often had liquidity 
issues.
By 2019 the WEIF was in difficulty and in June 2019 the fund was suspended and was 
closed down permanently a few months later. As a result, many investors, including Mr C 
found their investments in the WEIF frozen or at best significantly reduced in value.
Mr C has said that the change in the investment strategy was not communicated to him by 
Quilter at any point nor was he recommended to switch to alternatives during this time or at 
any of his annual reviews.
Mr C therefore feels the loss of around 50% in the value of his investment is due to failures 
on the part of Quilter.
When Quilter investigated the complaint it was satisfied that it had been proactive in its 
dealings with the WEIF. It stated the investment strategy was not regarded as being high 
risk. And given the fund managers past record it believed the strategy would be proved 
correct and so felt no need to make any changes to Mr Cs portfolio.
Unhappy with this response Mr C brought his complaint to this Service where it was 
assessed by one of our investigators. He felt it couldnt be upheld for broadly the same 
reasons as Quilter.
Mr C didnt agree with the assessment. He remained of the view that he wasnt kept 
informed of the funds changing strategy and that Quilter had a duty to tell him what was 
happening with the fund. He also stated that he had never wanted to take high levels of risk 
so when the fund was recategorised Quilter should have told him and allowed him to invest 
elsewhere.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. Ive taken into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulatory rules; guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, Ive reached my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.  
The advice to transfer into WEIF does not form part of this complaint. But its worth noting 
that I see nothing wrong with WEIF being recommended to Mr C in 2016. At that point in 
time, it wasnt a high risk or volatile fund. It had been a very popular and successful income 
producing fund which didnt contain a high proportion of unlisted securities in 2016. It was 
used in many portfolios of clients wanting an income producing fund and for those who were 
happy to take a low to medium level of risk. However, by 2017 the fund started to 
underperform and didnt recover ultimately leading to its suspension in 2019. Further to this, 
the WEIF was recategorised in March 2018 to an all companies fund to reflect the decrease 
in the income the fund was producing. The fund also continued to invest more and more in 
unlisted securities from this time. 
Mr C has said Quilter failed to keep him informed of the funds changing strategy and what 
was happening with the fund. But the types of investments the fund made from around 2017 
were permittable under the investment objective of the fund, as set out in the Authorised 
Corporate Directors prospectus. So, it isnt unreasonable that Quilter was not alarmed by 
this and didnt flag this up as a concern to Mr C or recommend he take any action. 
Furthermore, while the performance of the fund fluctuated around this point in time, given the 
fund managers previous record of successful investments along with the fact this fund 
recovered from significant dips in performance at least three times in the past, I  dont think it 
was unreasonable that Quilter, along with many other advisers, felt the fund would recover. 
The recategorisation of the fund in 2018 would have been due to the change in the risk 
levels of the fund but the increase in risk was slight. Nevertheless, Mr C didnt invest solely 
in the WEIF  his portfolio contained a number of different funds with differing risk profiles. 
So, the increase in risk of the WEIF, slight although it was, would have been balanced out by 
the other funds within his portfolio. And when assessing the level of risk of a portfolio it is 
only right to look at the portfolio as whole  as there will always be assets which are more 
towards the medium risk end of the risk spectrum, but these would be balanced out by those 
more towards the low/no risk end of the spectrum. 
So, whilst the WEIF at the point of recategoriastion would have been a higher risk than in 
2016, if Quilter had felt this didnt push Mr C over his overall appetite for risk for the entirety 
of his portfolio it isnt unreasonable that it didnt suggest Mr C make any changes to his 
investments at the time.
It is easy to say with hindsight that Quilter should have done something different. But at the 
time this particular fund manager had such a good reputation that collapse of the fund 
wouldnt have been easily foreseeable. So it isnt unreasonable that Quilter didnt think there 
was anything to be concerned about.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I  make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman