DRN-1826068
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the settlement British Gas Insurance Limited has paid for a claim 
she made on her landlords home emergency insurance policy.
Mr M has brought this complaint on Mrs Ms behalf.
In this final decision, Ive referred to all the contractors British Gas sent out as British Gas. 
Thats because they were acting on behalf of British Gas in dealing with Mrs Ms claim. So 
British Gas is responsible for their actions.
What happened
In late March 2019, there was a leak at Mrs Ms rental property. She made a claim on her 
home emergency policy. One of British Gas contractors went out and investigated the 
blockage. But they said a plumber would need to go out to get the pipe repairs done.
About two weeks later, British Gas plumber attended the property. But they said that due to 
unsafe conditions, scaffolding would need to be put up to make the area safe before the 
work could be started. Mr M wasnt happy with this as he hadnt been made aware of it by 
the first contractor. So he complained to British Gas.
Over a month went by and Mr M hadnt heard anything from British Gas about getting the 
scaffolding up or the repairs done. So he got a third party in to do the repairs. A further 
month after that, British Gas got back in touch to check what was happening with the repairs 
and to offer a plumber to come out and give a second opinion. Mr M told it hed had the 
works done and sent in the third party invoice for British Gas to consider.
British Gas agreed to settle the claim. But it told Mr M it was limiting the settlement to what it 
wouldve cost it to do the repairs. This was about £300 less than what Mr M had paid for the 
repairs to be done. British Gas recognised thered been delays in dealing with the claim 
though, so it offered £100 compensation.
Mrs M and Mr M werent happy with the settlement British Gas had offered. And they thought 
it should pay compensation of £250. So Mr M asked us to look into Mrs Ms complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought British Gas hadnt 
done enough to chase up getting the repairs done, although she also thought Mr M couldve 
been more proactive in contacting it. She didnt think the policy terms included a limitation on 
settlement to what it wouldve cost British Gas to get the repairs done. So she didnt think it 
could limit settlement based on something that wasnt in the policy. She recommended that 
British Gas pay the full costs of the repair. But she didnt think it needed to pay any more 
compensation.
Neither party agreed with the investigator. Mr M disagreed that hed contributed in any way 
to the delay in getting the repairs done. He wasnt happy that the investigator hadnt 
proposed that British Gas pay more compensation.British Gas said it hadnt limited settlement based on what it wouldve cost it to do 
the repairs. It said the policy specifically excluded the costs of cleaning debris and this work 
wouldve needed to have been done on a chargeable basis. So it had deducted the cleaning 
costs from the settlement it paid.
The investigator reconsidered the complaint, but didnt change her mind. She didnt think it 
was fair for British Gas to rely on the exclusion clause in these circumstances.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 April 2020. In my provisional 
decision, I explained the reasons why I thought British Gas had settled Mrs Ms claim fairly. I 
said:
I should make it clear that I completely understand why Mr M organised getting the repairs 
done by a third party. Ive looked carefully at the notes British Gas has sent us. I think there 
was an unreasonable delay between its plumber confirming that the works couldnt be done 
without scaffolding being put up and British Gas getting back in touch with Mr M to see what 
was happening with the claim.
After all, British Gas knew the landing was unsafe. Its own plumber had said so. And it knew 
the pipe was still leaking, so it wouldve still been causing damage. I think, like the 
investigator did, that the claim got lost in dealing with the complaint and things didnt 
progress as they shouldve done. So I think it was sensible and reasonable for Mr M to get a 
third party to put things right. And while I note British Gas wont usually pay cash settlements 
in lieu of repairs, I think it was entirely appropriate for it to do so in these circumstances.
But I have to bear in mind what British Gas does and doesnt want to cover and how it 
settles claims. It sets this out in the terms of its policy. The policy contains a list of General 
Exclusions  things the policy doesnt cover. One of these states:
Were not responsible for any loss or damage to or cleaning of property, furniture of fixtures 
as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we caused it.
I think that the waste pipe in Mrs Ms property can fairly be considered to be a fixture in line 
with the above policy term. So I think it falls within the scope of it. This means that if British 
Gas had carried out the repairs, it wouldnt have covered any of the costs of cleaning up the 
debris, or of cleaning the pipework. These costs wouldve always had to have been met by 
Mrs M.
Both Mr M and British Gas have sent me copies of the invoice for the repairs. I can see that 
three of the items on it relate to clearing up debris and cleaning of the pipes. These are the 
costs British Gas hasnt covered. I know Mr M feels that there was more debris because of 
the delay in getting the works done. But it would be difficult for me to attribute a value to this, 
especially given theres no expert evidence to suggest the costs wouldve been any lower if 
the repairs had happened when they should. And I think its most likely that the pipework 
would always have needed to be cleaned.
So on this basis, I currently think it was fair for British Gas to rely on this policy exclusion to 
deduct these costs from the settlement it paid Mrs M. These costs wouldnt have been 
covered even if British Gas had progressed the claim in a reasonable timeframe. So I dont 
plan to direct British Gas to reimburse Mrs M for the outstanding costs. 
Ive then thought about the compensation that British Gas has offered. I appreciate Mr M 
feels its too low. Ive thought about this. We generally dont award compensation to 
representatives or third parties. We look at the losses a policyholder has suffered and the impact on them. In this case, its clear British Gas didnt deal with this claim as it shouldve 
done. Its right that it should pay some compensation for this.
But Ive also considered the fact that Mrs M didnt chase up the repairs. So its difficult for me 
to find that the overall impact on her means that British Gas should pay her a higher amount 
of compensation.
So overall, I currently think the compensation British Gas has paid is fair. And I wont be 
telling it to pay anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 9 May 2020.
British Gas had nothing further to add.
Mr M disagreed with my provisional decision. He said it was necessary for the cleaning 
works to be done so the repairs could be carried out. He said British Gas wouldve needed to 
do the same cleaning if it had done the work. He said there was no indication on the invoice 
to show what was paid for cleaning. And its unfair to assume the costs of cleaning are the 
difference between what Mrs M paid for the repairs and what British Gas wouldve paid for 
them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I still think British Gas 
settled Mrs Ms claim fairly. Ill explain why. 
I understand the cleaning works needed to take place for the pipe repair to happen. Cleaning 
wouldve been necessary if British Gas had carried out the works. So I can understand why 
Mr M and Mrs M feel the cleaning costs should be covered.
But British Gas specifically excludes the costs of cleaning, even if it carries out cleaning 
before repairs. This is something it simply doesnt cover. This means that if British Gas had 
carried out the repair work, Mrs M wouldve still been charged for the costs of cleaning. 
Because the policy doesnt cover cleaning costs, I think it was fair for British Gas to deduct 
them from the settlement it paid her.
I appreciate Mrs M was initially told the settlement she was paid was lower than her actual 
costs because settlement had been limited to what the works would cost British Gas. But as 
I explained in my provisional decision, the amount deducted from what Mrs M was paid out 
was for the cleaning costs. Settlement wasnt based on what British Gas wouldve paid using 
its supplier discounts for everything listed on the invoice.
The invoice from the third party engineer doesnt individually itemise costs. Its possible it 
has over-estimated what the third party engineer actually charged for the cleaning costs. But 
I think British Gas has calculated the costs of cleaning based on what its costs wouldve 
been if it had done the cleaning and repairs. And Mrs M hasnt provided me with any 
evidence from the third party engineer in response to my provisional findings to show that 
British Gas deductions were too high. So overall, Im still persuaded British Gas deductions 
were fair and reasonable.
All in all, I think British Gas has settled Mrs Ms claim fairly. And Im still of the view that the 
compensation it offered her was fair and reasonable. So Im still not telling British Gas to do 
anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman