DRN-4322928
The complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd, who Ill call BMF.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I dont think BMF have been unreasonable to reject his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr T. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already completed about 79,000 miles. 
An old car with a high mileage will not be expected to be as good as a newer car with a low 
mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a condition that reflects its age and 
price.
Mr T has complained about many issues hes had with the car since he took receipt of it. 
Some of those issues have been repaired. Ive seen, for instance, that the air conditioning 
fault, and a suspension issue, were resolved under warranty, and that tyres were changed to 
minimise road noise. I understand that Mr T wasnt happy with the new tyres fitted, and that 
he didnt think the road noise had been sufficiently reduced, but I dont think I have evidence 
there was a fault thereafter.
It appears that a fault with the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) regeneration has developed 
since Mr T took receipt of the car. BMF only have responsibility for the quality of the car 
when supplied, and Ive not been provided with evidence that would suggest the DPF fault 
was developing at that point, so I dont think theres sufficient evidence they need to put that 
right for Mr T. Similarly, Ive not seen sufficient evidence that there was a coolant leak, or a 
noise on full lock that was present or developing at the point of supply and I dont therefore 
think BMF can fairly be held responsible for those faults or any remedial action. Mr T has 
explained that in July 2023 the air conditioning failed again, but Ive not been provided with 
sufficient evidence to suggest that was due to a failed repair in 2022 and, given the time that 
had elapsed that seems unlikely.
The relevant legislation explains that when we consider if a car has been of satisfactory 
quality we should think about whether it has proven durable. I can understand that given the 
problems Mr T has experienced he may feel this car hasnt been durable. But I need to take 
into account the age and mileage of the car when it was supplied to him and, in the absence 
of any independent expert testimony to the contrary, I think the faults Mr T has reported 
wouldnt be considered unusual on a car of this age and mileage. I think that would also 
apply to the boot latch replacement in November 2022.
Ultimately, while I have every sympathy for the difficulties Mr T has experienced I dont think 
it would be fair to hold BMF responsible for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman