DRN-3182118
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain Zurich Assurance Ltd unfairly declined a critical illness claim they 
made for Mrs M under their life and critical illness policy.
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs M took out a Zurich joint life and critical illness (CIC) policy to protect 
their mortgage payments. The policy would pay a sum assured if either Mr or Mrs M passed 
away or were diagnosed with one of the critical illnesses specified in the policy. 
Unfortunately, in 2019 Mrs M suffered multiple cardiac arrests. Shes explained she was 
placed in a coma for nine days and received life support through an extracorporeal 
membrane oxygenation machine (ECMO). Mr and Mrs M say Mrs Ms cardiovascular 
issues have improved, but shes unable to lift her leg or drive, has ongoing swallowing 
problems and needs to use a wheelchair outside her home. She remains medically signed 
off work. Shes receiving ongoing care from plastic surgeons and cardiologists, and is 
awaiting further endocrinology tests to determine the cause of her heart issues.
Mr and Mrs M claimed under the CIC part of their policy, but Zurich declined the claim. It 
said Mrs M didnt have one of the surgically implanted defibrillator devices required by the 
policys cardiac arrest definition. And she didnt have permanent neurological deficit with 
persisting clinical symptoms as required by the policys coma definition. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to Zurich and highlighted a case study from our service, in which 
wed upheld a critical illness complaint under what Mr and Mrs M saw to be similar 
circumstances. But Zurich didnt uphold their complaint and its letter of 11 June 2020 further 
explained why the coma definition hadnt been met  that from its claims team discussions 
and the medical evidence, Mrs M had neurological damage and persisting clinical symptoms 
but these were caused by the ECMO, not the coma as required by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to our service. They said Zurich applied the cardiac 
arrest definition too narrowly, since ECMO was a very significant treatment and effectively 
the most advanced form of defibrillation available in the sense it stabilised the hearts 
function by fully replacing it. Mrs M required ECMO to be implanted whilst she was in a coma 
and would have died if shed had one of the defibrillators specified in the policy definition 
instead. Mr and Mrs M also said Zurich interpreted the coma definition incorrectly, because 
the coma and ECMO resulted in permanent damage to Mrs Ms femoral nerve, and the last 
sentence of the policys coma definition said neurological deficit resulting from life support 
systems would be covered. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. He said the policy covered cardiac 
arrest with insertion of a defibrillator, and defined the defibrillators required. These 
defibrillators are implanted and kept in place to regulate cardiac function after recovery, 
whereas ECMO provides life support while treatment is carried out. While the evidence did 
show that Mrs M has ongoing neurological deficit, this wasnt caused by her coma. He also 
thought the circumstances of the case study were different and so not relevant here. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They acknowledged Mrs Ms treatment didnt strictly meet the 
cardiac arrest definition and Mrs M didnt have one of the specified defibrillators. But they 
thought Zurich was unfair to apply a strict formulaic assessment, as they said ECMO was at 
least as significant a course of treatment as the specified defibrillators, and wasnt available 
as a treatment when Mr and Mrs M bought their policy so couldnt have been specified in it.
Mr and Mrs M also thought Zurich had unfairly declined the claim under the coma definition 
on the basis Mrs Ms neurological deficit was caused by the ECMO not the coma. They 
again pointed to the last sentence of the policys coma definition. They acknowledged it was 
slightly differently worded than elsewhere in the coma definition, but thought mention of 
neurological deficit being joined to mention of life support systems was a clear and 
unambiguous statement that neurological deficit caused by life support was covered. 
As Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators assessment, their complaint was passed 
to me for a decision. 
I asked Mr and Mrs M for an opinion from Mrs Ms consultant cardiologist regarding why 
Mrs M was in a coma and why ECMO was used. The cardiologist said, [Mrs M] was placed 
on ECMO because she was in refractory ventricular tachycardia with associated cardiogenic 
shock. Without ECMO she would have died very quickly. And he said, After any protracted 
cardiac arrest it is usual and necessary to place such patients in a coma. After an ECMO 
implant it is usual to keep patients in a coma for a short period; because [Mrs M] had a 
protracted cardiac arrest, a prolonged period of coma was necessary to allow organ 
(including brain) recovery after a period of low blood flow and shock.
I asked Zurich whether it accepted Mrs M had permanent neurological deficit with persisting 
clinical symptoms as set out in the policy, and whether it had any medical evidence 
regarding why Mrs M was in a coma and why ECMO was used. Zurich said there was 
evidence of ongoing nerve damage to Mrs Ms leg, but this resulted from the ECMO 
procedure and not Mrs Ms coma and so didnt meet the policys coma definition. Zurich said 
the ECMO was used to let Mrs Ms heart functionality recover, and that patients are often 
placed in a coma where ECMO is used as its an invasive procedure. 
I issued my provisional decision on 15 September 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id firstly like to acknowledge Mrs Ms very significant health difficulties. Im sorry to hear 
about these and I understand this must have been, and continues to be, a very upsetting 
and difficult time for Mrs M, Mr M and their family. I dont wish to minimise their experience in 
any way, or to cause them any further distress. However, Im not intending to uphold their 
complaint. I realise this isnt the answer Mr and Mrs M wanted but Ill explain my reasons. 
What I need to consider here is whether Zurich was fair and reasonable to decline this claim. 
I should be clear that Mr and Mrs Ms policy doesnt cover every critical illness under every 
circumstance. Instead, it specifies a number of covered conditions and defines under what 
circumstances they will be paid. Zurich has considered this claim under the cardiac arrest 
and coma definitions specified in Mr and Mrs Ms policy. Ill consider each in turn. 
The cardiac arrest definition says:
Cardiac arrest - with insertion of a defibrillatorSudden loss of heart function with interruption of blood circulation around the body resulting 
in unconsciousness and resulting in either of the following devices being surgically 
implanted:
 Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillator (ICD); or
 Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy with Defibrillator (CRT-D).
The following are not covered:
 Insertion of a pacemaker
 Insertion of a defibrillator without cardiac arrest
Cardiac arrest is a life threatening condition in which the heart suddenly stops pumping 
blood around the body. You must have had a cardiac arrest requiring resuscitation and have 
a defibrillator fitted. This is a device which is put in to your chest to correct and control heart 
rhythm.
Its not disputed Mrs M suffered multiple cardiac arrests. Whats disputed here is whether 
Zurich has applied the cardiac arrest definition too narrowly so that it has unfairly excluded 
the ECMO Mrs M had implanted for a time. Mr and Mrs M say ECMO is at least as 
significant a treatment as the defibrillators specified by the policy, and is effectively the most 
advanced defibrillation available. But that it wasnt available as a treatment when 
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy and so couldnt be included in the policy terms.
I dont doubt ECMO is a relatively new and very significant treatment. I understand its a 
temporary form of life support that uses an artificial heart and lung to take over a patients 
own heart or lungs when they cant function, in order to give the patients organs time to 
recover. So its a life support measure used for a relatively short period of time when 
someone is critically ill. And my understanding of the defibrillators specified by the policy is 
that they are implanted for a relatively long period of time in order to monitor and correct 
abnormal heart rhythms, with CRT-D also helping coordinate the hearts pumping action. So 
they are long term treatments specifically for abnormal heart rhythms.  I note the 
16 March 2020 report from Mrs Ms consultant cardiologist confirms Mrs M had a slow 
recovery but now has normal heart function.
Given this, I think its fair to say there are fundamental differences in purpose and use 
between an ECMO and the two specified defibrillators. And these defibrillators being 
specified in the definition, given their purpose and use, suggests the intention of the cardiac 
arrest definition is not just to ensure only that the most severe forms of cardiac arrest are 
covered but also those most severe cases where there are concerns about ongoing 
abnormal heart rhythms. Taking all this into account, I dont think Zurich has applied the 
cardiac arrest definition too narrowly, or that it was unreasonable to decline the claim 
because Mrs M had ECMO rather than one of the specified defibrillators.  
Mr and Mrs M have highlighted a case study from our service. It concerns whether an 
angioplasty claim met the policys artery blockage definition. The consumer was close to 
meeting that definition. We upheld the complaint, noting that assessing the extent of blocked 
arteries wasnt an exact science and so the insurer needed to think about the seriousness of 
the condition as a whole rather than make their claim decision on a formulaic basis. 
Therefore, the case study was about a matter of degree in something hard to assess and 
which the consumer was already quite close to the requirement for. But the circumstances 
here are different. Mr and Mrs M are essentially arguing that the ECMO Mrs M temporarily 
had implanted should be considered as a defibrillator for the purposes of the policy 
definition. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied it shouldnt. 
Zurich also considered this claim under the policys coma definition. It says: Coma - with 
associated permanent symptomsA state of unconsciousness with no reaction to external stimuli or internal needs which:
requires the use of life support systems, and
results in associated permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms.
A coma is a state of unrousable unconsciousness. Someone in a coma is unlikely to respond 
to any form of physical stimulation and unlikely to have any control of their bodily functions.
There are various depths to a coma, measured by the response to repeated external stimuli. 
A coma may be due to damage or disturbance to certain areas of the brain, which control 
and maintain conscious activity. A coma may, for example, occur as a result of a head injury, 
an abnormal growth like a brain tumour, or an abscess or ruptured blood vessel that bleeds 
into the brain.
If you are in a coma you will be covered provided there is no reaction to stimuli and life 
support systems are necessary resulting in permanent neurological deficit. The policy also 
explains what is meant by permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms 
as mentioned in the coma definition. 
Its not disputed Mrs M was in a coma. And the letter of 30 December 2019 from Mrs Ms 
consultant clinical neurophysiologist says As a result of ECMO and intraaortic balloon pump 
via femoral access she has a significant wound of her right femoral area and has developed 
paraesthesia over the anterior thigh and medial calf and weakness of knee extension and 
some weakness of hip flexion The question is to look for a femoral nerve injury as a result 
of the interventions. And the letter goes on to suggest there was some such injury. 
It seems Zurich accepts Mrs M has a permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical 
symptoms, based on the further explanation it gave Mr and Mrs M for why it thought the 
coma definition hadnt been met, and based on its more recent response to me. But Zurich 
says Mrs Ms permanent neurological deficit was caused by the ECMO and not the coma 
itself, and so its correct to decline the claim under the coma definition. 
Mr and Mrs M say the coma and ECMO are linked events and the claim should be paid 
according to the last sentence of the coma definition, which says If you are in a coma you 
will be covered provided there is no reaction to stimuli and life support systems are 
necessary resulting in permanent neurological deficit. They acknowledge this last sentence 
has slightly different wording to the first part of the definition, but argue this sentence means 
Zurich was wrong to say neurological deficit caused by life support isnt covered.
Mr and Mrs M say the coma and ECMO are linked events and I accept this is the case, 
based on the recent comments from Mrs Ms consultant. But Im intending to say I think 
Zurich was fair to decline the claim under the policys coma definition. Ill explain why. 
Its fair and reasonable for the whole of a policy definition to be considered, not just one 
sentence of it in isolation. Looking at the whole coma definition in this policy, I can see it 
starts by specifying whats required, that is, a coma which: 
requires the use of life support systems, and 
results in associated permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical 
symptoms. 
Im satisfied that the comma in the first line and the separate bullet points detach the life 
support requirement from the permanent neurological deficit requirement, so that they are 
two separate but necessary requirements. Therefore, for a claim to be payable under this 
definition, Mrs Ms coma needed to have required the use of life support systems, and her 
coma needed to also have resulted in associated permanent neurological deficit. While the coma and ECMO are linked events, Mrs Ms coma didnt itself result in associated 
permanent neurological deficit - the medical evidence from Mrs Ms consultant clinical 
neurophysiologist in December 2019 says Mrs Ms neurological deficit instead resulted from 
the use of ECMO and intraaortic balloon pump. 
I note the policys coma definition goes on to explain more about comas, including what they 
are, how their depth is measured and their causes. When considered in the context of this 
general explanatory wording, I dont think the last sentence Mr and Mrs M have highlighted 
changes or replaces the earlier and more specific wording. So Im satisfied Zurich was 
reasonable to decline the claim on the basis Mrs M hadnt met the policys coma definition.  
I realise this will be a very great disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but Im not intending to 
ask Zurich to do anything further here.
Zurich confirmed it didnt have anything further to add in response to my provisional 
decision. 
In their response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs M provided further comments and 
medical evidence. In summary, they said the sentence from Mrs Ms consultant clinical 
neurophysiologist should be seen in the wider context of that report, which was to assess 
Mrs Ms nerve conduction and was an over-simplification of the events that led to Mrs Ms 
nerve damage. They said that Mrs Ms neurophysiologist wasnt asked for an opinion on the 
cause of Mrs Ms nerve damage and couldnt have given it anyway, as they only saw Mrs M 
once as an outpatient. Mr and Mrs M instead said Mrs Ms plastic surgeon was best placed 
to provide a medical opinion, as hed treated her nerve damage as both an inpatient and 
outpatient. Mr and Mrs M provided the plastic surgeons medical opinion to our service, and 
said it showed Mrs Ms coma was a major cause of her nerve damage.
Our service passed the plastic surgeons medical opinion to Zurich. Zurich considered it but 
said it didnt change its claim decision  Zurich highlighted that the plastic surgeon said, the 
coma would not in itself have resulted in damage to your femoral nerve. And Zurich 
reiterated Mrs Ms permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms was 
caused by the ECMO life support treatment and not the coma.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ms response to my provisional decision is that Mrs Ms plastic 
surgeon is the appropriate medical professional to provide an opinion here. So, I think its 
helpful to set out that opinion in full. Mrs Ms plastic surgeon says:
I think it is entirely objective and defensible to state that
1. coma / prolonged ICU care would not in and of itself have resulted in damage to
your femoral nerve - that is not sole and sufficient cause, but that is not what you are
proposing.
2. Your femoral nerve injury, and the associated soft tissue necrosis that was a major 
contributory factor to the failed nerve regeneration, is due to the mechanical effect of 
prolonged pressure. Due to the pain that would have been caused, you could not have 
tolerated that level / duration of pressure if you were conscious if it were clinically necessary, 
nor could pressure injury of that magnitude have occurred unnoticed if you were conscious. 
Therefore, on balance probabilities [sic], you could not have sustained either that severity of 
femoral nerve injury, or the magnitude of surrounding soft tissue injury that was directly contributory to failed nerve recovery, without being in a coma / long term deep sedation. 
Therefore coma / prolonged deep sedation was a necessary condition for the injury 
sustained.
3. It is recognised that prolonged ICU care is associated with increased frequency
and severity of pressure related peripheral nerve injury, and/or neuropathy, as is
ischaemia / poor peripheral perfusion. Therefore the ICU care, coma, and cardiac
injury (and periods of poor perfusion / heart failure) were significant contributory
factors.
So ICU/coma/cardiac arrest are not sole & sufficient cause but were [sic] necessary
causes.
The first point Mrs Ms plastic surgeon makes is that Mrs Ms coma would not in and of itself 
have resulted in damage to your femoral nerve. He does go on to say that Mrs M likely 
couldnt have tolerated that level of nerve and tissue injury without being in a coma, and 
that the ICU care, coma, and cardiac arrest were significant contributory factors to the 
damage. So his opinion is that the coma and cardiac arrest were contributory factors. But 
whats certain, according to the opening paragraph of Mrs Ms plastic surgeons evidence, is 
that the coma didnt itself cause Mrs Ms nerve damage. 
The policys coma definition requires the coma to result in permanent neurological deficit. 
The definition doesnt say that deficit can be caused by something else. Given this, I think it 
is fair and reasonable for Zurich to say Mrs M hasnt met the policys coma definition.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim under their policys cardiac arrest and coma definitions. So 
while I realise this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M hoped for, Im not asking Zurich to do 
anything further about their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman