DRN-2944051
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a policy taken out in 1994 in connection with Mr and Mrs Ws joint 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr W if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W didnt 
agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs W the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy? 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs W are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale? Ive 
decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs W say Halifax presented the PPI as part of the overall mortgage package, and 
that they were told they had to buy it. They say they werent given a proper choice about 
taking the cover. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs W have said. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide much evidence from the point of sale, which isnt 
surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Its also similar to other cases Ive seen. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs W and 
Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs W have told me, I dont think I can fairly 
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the policy and it doesnt look 
like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I 
say this because:
- Mr W was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. From what Ive been told about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, I think 
its unlikely she was eligible for the policy. So I think this explains why the policy was 
in Mr Ws name only. 
- Mr W was entitled to employer benefits if he couldnt work due to sickness or 
accident, and he and Mrs W say their friends and family wouldve helped if things 
went wrong. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ws employer benefits. Having the 
policy in place wouldve meant Mr and Mrs W could use Mr Ws employer benefits to 
pay for other expenses, and it wouldve meant they didnt have to rely on their friends 
and family. So, I think the policy wouldve been useful to them, despite their existing 
arrangements.
- Mr W wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover, I think it 
unlikely he and Mrs W needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations. 
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs W before they agreed 
to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr W wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr 
and Mrs W would have made a different decision if better information had been provided 
 overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman