DRN-4405879
The complaint
Mrs C complains Great Lakes Insurance SE provided a poor level of service and caused 
delays and distress following her fracturing her leg abroad. 
In this decision my references to Great Lakes shall include its agents. 
What happened
Mrs C held a travel insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. In June 2022 she travelled 
abroad and unfortunately suffered a fall, resulting in a fracture to her thigh.
The circumstances of Mrs Cs hospital stay and repatriation are well known to both parties, 
so I have only included a brief summary here.
Mrs C was treated in a public hospital abroad and required surgery. The hospital said there 
would be a delay in performing the operation, so Mrs Cs family enquired with Great Lakes 
about transferring her to a private hospital. Great Lakes arranged this, however Mrs C and 
her family later refused the transfer, as they were unhappy with the level of information they 
had been given and the suitability of the vehicle and crew. Great Lakes reviewed the options 
again and discussed this with Mrs Cs family. But in the meantime, the public hospital was 
able to schedule Mrs Cs operation, so the surgery went ahead there. 
A few days after the surgery, the hospital advised Mrs C could be discharged and issued a 
letter stating she was fit to fly as at 11 July 2022. Great Lakes arranged a repatriation flight, 
however Mrs Cs family queried the suitability of this and found she would be required to sit 
upright for take-off and landing, which wouldnt be possible due to her injuries. 
Great Lakes requested further details of the requirements for Mrs Cs repatriation from the 
treating doctor. There were delays in receiving an updated fit to fly certificate from the 
doctor. And Great Lakes said it was having difficultly securing an early flight by air 
ambulance due to high demand. Mrs Cs family looked into alternate air ambulance 
providers and complained of the delays. They had also made contact with the UK hospital 
and advised Great Lakes a bed was available for Mrs C on her return, but Great Lakes said 
it needed to verify this with the hospital directly. 
Mrs C was ultimately repatriated to the UK via air ambulance, however she and her family 
said this had taken too long to arrange. And they complained.
Great Lakes said it thought it handled Mrs Cs case appropriately. And although it accepted 
there were delays, it said these related to circumstances beyond its control, such as delays 
caused by the hospital and high demand for air ambulance flights. 
Unhappy with the response, Mrs C and her family brought the complaint to this service. 
    
An investigator here looked into what had happened. They thought Great Lakes had caused 
a delay by failing to request more details about the requirements for Mrs Cs repatriation 
flight, when it received the first fit to fly certificate. And said Great Lakes should pay £200 in 
compensation.  
Great Lakes said it accepted the investigators view. However Mrs C and her family 
disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive considered the relevant industry rules, which say an insurer must handle claims 
promptly and fairly.
Firstly, Mrs C and her family have made detailed submissions to us about this complaint. 
And I appreciate they would probably like me to deal with every point raised. But, were an 
informal alternative to the courts and this means Ive focused on the issues that I think are 
material in determining a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role 
in it.
 
I appreciate Mrs C had a very distressing experience in that she became injured abroad and 
needed surgery. I think these circumstances would always be distressing to an extent. And 
whilst I have great empathy for Mrs Cs distress following the accident, I need to consider 
where this was caused by an action or inaction of the business and I wont be holding Great 
Lakes responsible for circumstances beyond its control.  
I should also set out that compensation for distress and inconvenience can only be awarded 
to Mrs C. Im aware Mrs Cs travelling companion had had some expenses covered, but this 
was as a part of Mrs Cs claim. The policy records show Mrs C as the sole policyholder. Ive 
noted the distress and inconvenience which has been described as having been 
experienced by Mrs Cs family members, however this is not something I can direct Great 
Lakes to compensate them for. 
Having reviewed the circumstances and timeline of the events, I think Great Lakes should 
have known it would need more information from the treating hospital about requirements for 
the repatriation journey. And Ill explain why.
Great Lakes received the first fit to fly letter on the afternoon of 11 July. Mrs Cs relative 
raised the issue of her being unable to bend her leg, by email, on 12 July. And said they 
thought this was important information which may not have been included in the medical 
report. 
On 13 July Great Lakes advised it was arranging a repatriation via a standard flight with two 
extra seats for Mrs C to use to extend her legs. During this call Mrs Cs relative explained 
Mrs C couldnt bend her leg and said the treating doctor had barely assessed her since the 
surgery. As it was established that Mrs C could not sit upright for the take-off and landing as 
the airline required, Great Lakes agreed to change the repatriation plan and said it would 
need a further medical report. 
The first letter from the hospital stated Mrs C was fit to fly, but did not give any further details 
of any special adjustments which were needed. Considering Mrs C had surgery to her thigh 
area, I think its reasonable Great Lakes should have asked the hospital for more information at the outset, to establish whether or not she could sit upright in a standard airline seat for 
the flight.
On 14 July Great Lakes was advised the treating doctor refused to amend the fit to fly letter 
when it requested this. And I think its reasonable that it then attempted to arrange for a 
private doctor to assess Mrs Cs fitness to fly. The issues with the treating doctor were 
beyond Great Lakes control. However, I still think it should have requested more detail on 
Mrs Cs medical needs for the repatriation when it reviewed the first fit to fly certificate. 
Taking into account the time Id expect would reasonably be needed to review medical 
evidence, I think this added a delay of one to two days, which could otherwise have been 
avoided. This understandably added to Mrs Cs distress, and so I think Great Lakes should 
pay £200 in compensation to recognise the impact to her. 
The updated fit to fly certificate was issued on 15 July and stated Mrs C could fly in a laying 
position on a stretcher. Great Lakes records show it had already begun requesting quotes 
and availability from air ambulance suppliers on 14 July. And these show it considered both 
a standard flight by stretcher and air ambulance flights, which Im satisfied were appropriate 
based on the updated medical report. 
Turning to the rest of its handling of the claim, I think Great Lakes has acted fairly and as I 
would expect from an insurer in the circumstances. And I say this for the following reasons. 
Mrs Cs family has said they believe Great Lakes should have started to arrange 
a private air ambulance from the date the first fit to fly certificate was issued. 
However the doctors letter lacked information about Mrs Cs needs for her 
repatriation flight. Although Great Lakes should have realised that it needed more 
details, the fit to fly certificate did not indicate Mrs C had a medical need to be 
transported by air ambulance. So I dont think it unfair that Great Lakes didnt 
arrange a repatriation via this method from the outset.
Mrs Cs family have said they contacted an air ambulance company which could 
have arranged a flight for the same or the next day  so sooner than that which 
was being arranged by Great Lakes. However Great Lakes said they work with 
their approved suppliers, and that availability was limited due to high demand at 
the time. Ive seen evidence that Great Lakes contacted multiple air ambulance 
suppliers, and also that it sent chaser emails for quotes. It also considered 
stretcher repatriation via a standard flight, however there was also a lack of 
availability for this at the time. 
I dont think it unreasonable that Great Lakes would want to use suppliers it was 
familiar with, considering the risks involved with a medical repatriation. I note that 
after Mrs Cs family raised concerns about a wait until 20 July for the flight, Great 
Lakes later secured an earlier flight for 17 July, providing the UK hospital bed 
could be confirmed, and I think this was reasonable. 
When confirming the air ambulance, Great Lakes advised it had needed to refer 
to the underwriter for approval of the costs. And whilst I appreciate this was 
frustrating for Mrs C and her family, this is a common business practice for an 
insurer considering the high costs involved. So Im persuaded Great Lakes was 
following its reasonable business processes and didnt cause any avoidable 
delay.
Ive noted that the level of care at the public hospital where Mrs C was treated 
was not of the standard that can be expected within the NHS in the UK. Great Lakes had agreed to transfer Mrs C to a private facility where the standard of 
care could be expected to be higher. However this move was refused by Mrs C 
and her family when the transfer vehicle arrived. 
I can of course appreciate the familys concerns over Mrs Cs welfare. However 
Great Lakes is responsible for arranging access to treatment abroad; it wouldnt 
be reasonable for me to hold it accountable for the service and actions of third 
parties, such as the fitness of the driver of the transfer booked to take Mrs C to 
the private hospital. And as the move to a private facility was rejected, I cant say 
Great Lakes is responsible for the level of care Mrs C received in the public 
facility. It offered a transfer to a private hospital on two occasions, and I think it 
would be unreasonable for me to say it needed to do anything more in this 
regard.
Great Lakes said it needed to confirm the hospital bed in the UK which would be 
ready for Mrs C on her return. I appreciate Mrs Cs family had a contact at the 
hospital who had confirmed a bed had been reserved. However, I dont think its 
unreasonable that Great Lakes wanted to verify this through its usual protocols, 
which it has explained involve a clinician to clinician discussion to confirm the 
patient will be accepted on arrival back to the UK. And Ive noted from the 
correspondence that this was also a condition imposed by the air ambulance 
provider. So Im persuaded this check was necessary and that Great Lakes didnt 
cause an avoidable delay here.  
Putting things right
As Ive explained, I think some delay could have been avoided initially in arranging the 
repatriation, had the insurer asked for more information about Mrs Cs needs for the flight 
when it received the original fit to fly letter. And because of this, I think Great Lakes should 
pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. And I 
direct Great Lakes insurance SE to pay Mrs C £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Great Lakes must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs C 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation, from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman