DRN-3432866
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy how QIC Europe Ltd handled a claim on his home insurance policy. He felt 
pressured into using the insurers contractor rather than a local professional of his own 
choice. And he says the insurer hasnt offered enough to complete the repairs himself.
What happened
Mr R suffered an escape of water in his kitchen. So he contacted his insurers to make a 
claim on his home insurance policy. QIC arranged for a damage assessor who told Mr R 
hed be entitled to a maximum of £10,000 to put things right. But when Mr R received a letter 
from QIC it only offered a cash settlement of £2,300. Mr R said that wasnt enough for the 
removal of his kitchen units and the repairs to the plumbing, electrics and flooring. 
When Mr R complained QIC increased the offer to £3,000 but Mr R declined it again. Mr R 
said he was put under pressure to use QICs contractor to carry out the repairs. But Mr R 
said they had a poor reputation. And he was sworn at when he asked for assurance his new 
kitchen would be covered from any damage during the repairs. So he wants QIC to offer a 
reasonable amount so he can ask a respected local business to carry out the work.
QIC said it was sorry Mr R had been unhappy with the proposed settlement to his claim. The 
scope of work had been revised following a discussion with a senior surveyor. But Mr R had 
declined the increased cash settlement offered. QIC said the terms of the home insurance 
policy stated it would only pay a cash settlement for the amount it wouldve cost it to use its 
own contractor if Mr R wanted to carry out the works himself. That was the limit of its liability.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with QICs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. Our investigator didnt think the settlement offered by QIC was 
reasonable. He thought the relationship between QIC and Mr R had broken down. So it 
wasnt able to use its preferred contractor. 
Our investigator felt the terms of the home insurance policy stated QIC should pay fair and 
reasonable costs to have the work carried out by Mr Rs chosen supplier. And he said QIC 
should pay Mr Rs supplier to complete the work to the sum of £8,460 less the policy excess.
QIC didnt agree with our investigator. It said there was no evidence its contractor had been 
at fault for any breakdown in the relationship. And it had other contractors in its network that 
could carry out the work. QIC said it shouldnt have to pay nearly three times the limit of its 
liability because Mr R was unhappy with one contractor. So its been passed to me to 
decide.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 explaining I was intending to uphold in part 
Mr Rs complaint. In brief I said:
I was sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr R and his family had experienced. And I 
could understand his wish to have the work carried out quickly while protecting his 
new kitchen units from any damage during the repairs.
The main issue here was the breakdown in the relationship between Mr R and his 
insurer - and how that affected the repairs that are needed through Mr Rs home 
insurance policy.
QIC had accepted Mr Rs claim. But Mr R had expressed concerns about ensuring 
his newly fitted kitchen would be protected during the repairs. And he was concerned 
because he felt the contractor has a poor reputation for their work.
I looked at the terms and conditions of the home insurance policy to see what QICs 
liability was in this claim. But I also considered what would be a fair and reasonable 
outcome given the concerns expressed by Mr R.
I thought the policy made it clear QIC could carry out the repairs on Mr Rs behalf 
through a contractor of its own choice. Or if Mr R wished, it would offer a cash 
settlement for the amount the contractor wouldve charged, less the policy excess. 
And QIC would only offer a different settlement amount if it was unable to carry out 
the repairs through its own contractors.
Mr R had obtained quotes from local suppliers ranging from around £8500 to £9500 
inclusive of VAT. And he wanted QIC to settle those costs so he could choose his 
own supplier. But Id only expect QIC to pay for the work to be carried out by Mr Rs 
supplier if it was unable to do so through its own contractor. And that wasnt the case 
here.
QIC had made it clear it had another preferred contractor in the local area who could 
carry out the work on its behalf. And the alternate contractor was unrelated to the 
contractor Mr R had concerns about. 
Understandably Mr R and his family wanted the repairs completing as soon as 
possible. But I didnt think it would be fair to ask QIC to pay nearly three times as 
much for repairs if they were able to arrange for alternate contractors to carry out the 
work at a much lower cost.
As the delays may have led to further damage I thought it might be sensible for QIC 
to arrange for another surveyors visit to review the scope and cost of works required. 
QIC should then work on this claim as quickly as possible. And if it wasnt able to 
arrange an alternate contractor for some time then it should pay Mr Rs contractor to 
do the repairs in line with the quotations Mr R had obtained.
QIC should provide alternative accommodation as necessary and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the home insurance policy. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached my final decision.
Responses to my Provisional Findings
Mr R responded that QIC had had seven months to put things right. He didnt want to go 
through a long process of surveying and reviewing again. Mr R confirmed his contractor was 
able to carry out the repairs within a few weeks and could proceed once theyd had 
confirmation from our service. Mr R felt QIC had failed to produce a correct and accurate survey. The surveyor had lied 
when hed told Mr R hed have £10,000 to fix all damages. It hadnt offered a reasonable 
settlement or tried to resolve things professionally. And Mr R was concerned about the repair 
costs being calculated again.
Mr R repeated that hed been sworn at by the contractor when asking for a damages 
contract to protect his new kitchen during the repairs. His wife felt very anxious and his 
family didnt feel safe working with any of QICs contractors after the way things had been 
conducted  especially as Mr R sometimes had to work away from home.
QIC responded that there was no need for another surveyors visit. The leak had been fixed 
so no further damage shouldve occurred in the interim. And there was no need to offer 
alternate accommodation as this hadnt been identified by the surveyor.
QIC said the main issue was its liability for the works required. It was willing to carry out the 
repairs through its own contractors. But QIC said there were ongoing problems in the 
building industry following Covid-19. And although itd been willing to offer alternative 
contractors over six months ago it could only request that its contractors prioritised the case 
- QIC wasnt able to say exactly when the repairs might take place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr R and QIC have provided full responses to my provisional findings. And its clear the 
relationship between Mr R and his insurer has broken down. Unfortunately there doesnt 
appear to be any middle ground in this complaint. 
My main concern and priority in this case is to ensure the repair work at Mr Rs property is 
completed as quickly as possible so that his familys life can return to normal. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, I felt QICs alternate contractors should be given the 
chance to carry out the repairs in line with the terms and conditions of the home insurance 
policy  if that was possible within a reasonable time frame.
So Ive looked at everything Mr R and QIC have said before considering my final decision. 
And I think it would be helpful to first address what seems to have been some confusion 
during the surveyors visit that mightve added to Mr Rs frustration.
Mr R says the damage assessor promised he would be entitled up to £10,000 to get the 
damage rectified. And I dont doubt thats what Mr R and his wife understood the assessor to 
mean. 
But the £10000 amount mentioned is actually the limit in the home insurance policy for trace 
and access. Thats how much Mr R wouldve been covered for to pay for any investigation 
into the source of the leak. And of course the cost of actually repairing the damage wouldve 
been covered separately by his policy.
If that wasnt explained clearly to Mr R I can understand his upset when he was only offered 
£3,000 to carry out repairs which other contractors had assessed at nearer £9,000  and 
when a figure of up to £10,000 had already been mentioned by his insurers representative. 
In any event it is clear from the submissions from Mr R and QIC that the relationship 
between the two has broken down.And its at the point where it is very difficult to ask Mr R to accept QICs offer of alternative 
contractors  especially as its understandable that he wants the work doing as quickly and 
completely as possible.
I can see that Mr Rs contractor has confirmed they should be able to start the repairs within 
two or three weeks. And although QIC has said it will ask its own contractors to prioritise the 
work it isnt able to offer any commitment to when they might be able to start.
There doesnt appear to be any need to carry out further surveying work. Neither party has 
requested it and that would only delay matters further. And Ive considered QICs comments 
that the surveyor didnt identify the need to offer alternative accommodation while the repairs 
were carried out. 
Our service would generally consider a property uninhabitable if there were no kitchen, 
bathroom or toilet facilities, or if it was unsafe to live in. Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
is the case here. And I think it should be possible for Mr R and his family to manage their 
kitchen usage while the repairs take place. So I wont be asking QIC to pay for the cost of 
alternative accommodation while the work is carried out.
But I do think QIC still needs to do more to resolve this matter that it has already offered to 
do. 
In cases where the relation between consumer and business has broken down, our service 
will sometimes ask the business to do more than it is strictly required to do under the terms 
and conditions of the home insurance policy. And on this occasion I think that would be the 
right outcome.
Putting things right
There is a clear need to resolve this matter as quickly as possible so that Mr R and his family 
can return to normal life and not suffer any further adverse effect.
The relationship between Mr R and QIC has broken down and they are unable to agree on a 
suitable approved contractor to carry out the repairs. Mr Rs contractor is available to carry 
out the repairs within 2-3 weeks. QIC is unable to offer any firm commitment to when it can 
carry out the work although it has said it will ask its contractor to prioritise the work.
Having considered everything both parties have said, it is my decision that QIC should pay 
Mr R a cash settlement in the sum of £8,460 less the policy excess so that he able to 
proceed with the work quoted for by his own contractor.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd should pay Mr R a cash 
settlement of £8,460 less the policy excess to arrange the repair works himself.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman