DRN-2286053
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy sold to him and the late Mrs S in 
1992. He has said they were advised to surrender two existing endowment policies and that 
the new policy was not fully or properly explained including that it carried a much higher 
risk that could leave a shortfall of funds. They were under the impression the policy would 
repay their mortgage and provide them with some additional money for retirement. 
Embassy Financial Planning Limited recommended the new endowment policy and 
facilitated the surrender of the existing endowment policies.
What happened
Mr S has told us that he and Mrs S wanted to do some home improvements in 1990. They 
obtained a quote for the works they wanted to have done. They had an existing interest-only 
mortgage for £45,000 and applied to the existing lender for a further advance to pay for the 
home improvements. The lender advanced them £20,000 in January 1991.The term of the 
borrowing appears to have been 22 years, with the main mortgage due to be repaid five 
months earlier.  Three endowment policies were assigned to the mortgage.
In the autumn of 1992, it appears Mr S approached Embassy for further assistance with his 
and Mrs Ss financial arrangements. Embassy made enquires with the lender and it 
confirmed on 20 October 1992 that it would agree to two of the existing endowment policies 
being replaced with a new one. It asked for sight of the new policy and an illustration. 
An illustration had already been produced for a policy with a product provider I will refer to as 
S. It detailed a policy with a target of £52,000 over a term of 19 years. Possible maturity 
values were shown using three different growth rates. The lower one (7%) shows a figure 
below the £52,000; 7.8% annual growth would produce a maturity value of £52,000 and the 
higher growth rate (10.5%) exceeded the target. It was documented that What is actually 
payable will depend on future movement in unit prices, which can go down as well as up, 
and the effect of the charges applicable to the policy. 
In the middle of December 1992 Embassy wrote to Mr S enclosing the acceptance terms 
from S. It explained that taking into account the third existing policy still attached to the 
mortgage, the S policy needed to have a target of £50,000. However, Embassy would leave 
the target value at £52,000 with Mr S permission. Embassy then went on to offer to 
manage the fund choice associated with the policy  that being that it would monitor the 
funds available for the policy to invest in and change the fund periodically to maximise its 
performance. Mr S was asked to confirm what he thought about the idea  whether he 
wanted to take up this option. Alternatively, he could select one of the funds available at that 
point and leave the policy invested in it. It appears that a single fund was selected for the 
policy to invest in  the cautious managed fund.
In March 1993 Embassy wrote to Mr and Mrs S mortgage lender. It enclosed the policy 
schedule for the new policy with S and confirmed the policy details. Embassy explained the 
S policy was replacing two of the existing policies linked to the mortgage and asked that they 
be released. It went on to say There is some urgency in the matter and your immediate 
attention would be most appreciated
In January 2003 Embassy responded to a complaint about the mis-sale of the S policy. The 
letter set out that Mr S had been sent an illustration and it had been explained there was a 
range of funds that could have been chosen from. Attitude toward risk was discussed as it 
always was, and as a more cautious risk profile was established, a cautious managed fund 
was recommended. Embassy mentioned that it had offered to monitor the policy 
performance and arrange fund switches to maximise growth. It said that at no point did it say 
the returns were guaranteed and the documentation showed that a 7.8% growth rate was 
needed to achieve the target value. Given Mr and Mrs S had three existing endowment 
policies, Embassy considered they would have had an understanding of how such policies 
worked. 
In relation to the reasons for two of the existing endowment policies being surrendered and 
replaced with the S policy, the letter said that Mr and Mrs S were having financial difficulties 
at the time; the implication being that they needed the money surrendering the existing 
endowments would give them. It was also mentioned that Mr and Mrs S selected a longer 
term on the new endowment policy in order to reduce the monthly premium. This letter was 
produced using Embassys letterheaded paper, which included a footer detailing its 
regulation by the Financial Services Authority, which ceased to exist in 2013. Whilst it gave 
referral rights to this service, it neglected to inform Mr and Mrs S they had to do so within six 
months.
On 28 February 2003 Embassy wrote to Mr and Mrs S detailing the discussions the adviser 
had with them following the above complaint response. The letter set out different options 
available to Mr and Mrs S for dealing with the shortfall on the S policy and to allow the 
mortgage to be paid off a few years early. It recommended that part of the mortgage be 
converted to repayment and for Mr and Mrs S to change investment fund for the S policy to 
improve its performance. It asked that they telephone to confirm what they wanted to do. 
Mr S has confirmed that part of the mortgage was converted to repayment. 
On 30 March 2003 Mr and Mrs S signed a letter titled as being about their complaint of 
11 January 2003. It said we have considered your response, and we are satisfied with the 
alternatives you have put forward to resolve our endowment mortgage problem, and so 
believe that we no longer have a complaint. 
We would like to thank you for all of your assistance in dealing with our concerns and we 
look forward to a continuing relationship with your company in the future.
In 2019 Mr S made a new complaint to Embassy about the S policy. It acknowledged the 
complaint and provided Mr S with a copy of its 2003 complaint response. Further emails 
were exchanged and clarification of the detail of the complaint was given in February 2020 
(as detailed in the above complaint section). Embassy issued its response to the complaint 
in March 2020. It said the events happened as they did because Mr and Mrs S were in 
financial difficulties. Different options were discussed and the most favourable one was 
recommended. It didnt consider the S policy was mis-sold and the policy suited the attitude 
toward risk that was established at the time. No guarantees were given and Mr and Mrs S 
were made aware that the value of the S policy was dependent on the performance of the 
underlying investments. It also said that it thought the complaint might have been made too 
late and not one that we could consider.
Mr S wasnt happy with Embassys response and referred his complaint to this service. He 
told us that Embassy had approached them when the S policy started to fail and changed 
them to a repayment mortgage. The discussions didnt happen because a complaint had been made  no complaint was made in 2003. The letter of 11 January 2003 was signed by 
Mr and Mrs S on the basis of Embassy arranging a payment for them and them expressing 
their satisfaction, even though it was its advice that put them in that position in the first place. 
The S policy was surrendered in 2006 to allow the mortgage to be settled in full; the rest of 
the money coming from Mrs S early retirement funds, savings and help from friends and 
relatives.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and found that it was one we could 
consider the merits off. She went on to do so, but didnt recommend the complaint was 
upheld. She was not persuaded the endowment policy was mis-sold in respect to the risks 
associated with it, nor did she think the advice to surrender the existing endowment policies 
was wrong. In any event, even if the advice to surrender the existing endowment was 
inappropriate, she didnt think there was sufficient information available to be able to 
calculate redress. In addition, she explained the performance of the fund the endowment 
was invested in was outside of the IFAs control as the funds were managed by the product 
provider. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators conclusions regarding the merits of his complaint. He 
reiterated that he was unaware of the existence of the complaint response from 2003 until 
early in 2019. As it took Embassy 6 weeks to produce it, he thinks it was created so that 
Embassy didnt have to deal with the complaint. He asked if we had established the 
computer system date of the letter. He reiterated his comments about the sale of the policy, 
the reason for the contact in 2003 and the letter of March 2003 signed by him and Mrs S. 
Mr S expanded about the letter of March 2003 by highlighting that it was sent two months 
after the complaint response letter and under no circumstances would they have thanked 
Embassy for that letter had they received it, which they didnt. He also pointed out that the 
product provider S was in financial difficulties at the time because of directors 
misappropriating monies in 2003. Due to these difficulties it would be unfair to take the value 
of that policy into account when assessing any redress due.
Our investigator responded and, whilst she acknowledged Mr S statement that he and 
Mrs S hadnt made a complaint in 2003 or received the FRL of January 2003, she wasnt 
persuaded that was the case. This was because she saw no reason for the business to 
fabricate the letter and the letter Mr S acknowledged signing refers to them having 
previously made a complaint. She highlighted that the sale of the S policy was not made at 
the same time as the further advance for home improvements, but rather sometime later. 
Given that no concerns were raised in 2003 when it had been said the surrenders had 
happened because of financial difficulties, that would support that was the reason.
It was also confirmed that an endowment investment that was considered cautious in 1992 
would have been on a par with or less than the risks represented by all of Mr and Mrs S 
existing endowment policies. In relation to the issues Mr S mentioned about the product 
provider, we confirmed that the matters raised didnt relate to the financial business that 
provided his policy, but rather another business in the same group. Some clarification on 
how redress would be calculated, if the surrender of the existing policies had been bad 
advice, was given. Overall, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her conclusions.
Mr S remained unhappy with the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. He reiterated and expanded on his previous comments about 
the 2003 final response letter, the subsequent thank you letter from him and Mrs S and the 
circumstances surrounding the surrender of the existing policies and the sale of the S policy. 
In relation to the replacement of the endowment policies, he said that he had researched the 
matter and it would appear the old and new policies needed to be an identical fit, which is 
seldom the case. As such, he considers the advice to replace the existing policies was an act of gross misrepresentation of the salient facts. Mr S also said that he didnt accept 
that the events highlighted had taken place 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before moving on to consider the merits of this complaint, I have noted Mr S concerns about 
responsibility for the advice he and Mrs S were given in 1992. I have read all the 
correspondence and I am satisfied that Embassy is responsible for the advice Mr and Mrs S 
received in 1992. Whilst Mr S appears to be under the impression that the adviser was 
taking personal responsibility for the advice, I am not persuaded that is the case and, even if 
it were, the authorisation the actions were taken under was Embassys, so it is responsible.
I would also confirm that I agree with our investigator that this is a complaint that falls within 
our jurisdiction to consider. 
Mr S has said the S policy was sold to support the further advance that was arranged for 
home improvements. Looking at the information available from the time, much of which Mr S 
has provided, I am not persuaded that is the case. The further advance was paid out to 
Mr and Mrs S in January 1991, at which time three endowments were linked to that advance 
and the main mortgage. The endowments provided enough cover for both the main 
mortgage and the further advance.
It was not until more than 18 months later that there is any evidence of the S policy being 
contemplated. This is evidenced in the form of an illustration for the policy. That document 
would be produced following discussions about a consumers needs and requirements, and 
used when the recommendation was presented to them. 
So I am in agreement with our investigator that the timings of the further advance and the 
sale of the S policy show the two events arent linked. As such, something other than the 
further advance must have triggered Mr and Mrs S talking to Embassy in 1992. Embassy 
has said this was because Mr and Mrs S were having some financial difficulties. However, it 
doesnt have any evidence from 1992 that supports this, other than the advisers 
recollections. Mr S has said there were no financial difficulties at the time. Recollections from 
so long ago are sometimes unreliable simply because of the passage of time. That is why 
we will look to find contemporaneous documentation to help us determine which account is 
more likely correct. 
The two letters from 1992 and 1993 dont confirm the reason advice was being given and the 
endowment policies were surrendered. However, the letter from March 1993 to the mortgage 
lender states that There is some urgency in the matter and your immediate attention would 
be most appreciated when it was asked to release the existing endowment policies. This 
would indicate the money from the surrender of the policies was needed urgently. Embassy 
would have received commission for the sale of the S policy, but wouldnt have received any 
financial benefit from the surrender of the existing endowments. So whatever urgency there 
was for the policies to be surrendered could only have been on Mr and Mrs S part.
In 2003 a complaint was made about the sale of the S policy. I have noted that Mr S has 
said he and Mrs S didnt make a complaint at that time and didnt receive the response letter 
either. However, again, the evidence doesnt support that. The letter he and Mrs S signed in 
March 2003 is titled Our complaint to you of 11th January 2003. It then confirms 
Mr and Mrs S were happy with the response given to the complaint and that they were also 
satisfied with the further advice theyd received; they thanked Embassy for it. The letter from the previous month evidences the further advice related to what to do about dealing with the 
predicted shortfall on the S endowment and the fact that Mr and Mrs S wanted to repay the 
mortgage a few years before the end of its term. 
I am satisfied that a complaint was made in 2003 and that Mr and Mrs S received the 
response to that complaint. As such, if the existing endowment polices hadnt been 
surrendered because Mr and Mrs S needed the money from the surrender, I would have 
expected that to have been raised in 2003 when this was cited as the reason for the 
surrender. I would not have expected them to have said they were happy with the response 
to the complaint if it had detailed incorrect facts. So I think it likely that the policies were 
surrendered because Mr and Mrs S needed to free up the money held in them for an urgent 
reason. 
In general, surrendering a long-term investment product isnt a good idea. This is because 
there are usually costs and charges that are incurred in the early years and so surrender 
values compared to the amount paid into a product tend to be low. However, that doesnt 
mean that surrender is always bad advice. If there is a good reason for the surrender, then it 
wouldnt be considered wrong. An example of where that would be the case is if the 
policyholder urgently needed funds and the surrender was the only way they had of 
obtaining them. 
There is limited information available from 1992, but what little information we do have 
indicates Mr and Mrs S needed the money from the existing policies to assist with their 
financial difficulties. I cant be certain that Mr and Mrs S didnt have other viable options to 
obtain the funds they needed, but equally, it is possible they didnt. In order to uphold a 
complaint I must be satisfied that Embassy did something wrong. In the circumstances, its 
possible Embassy wasnt right to recommend the surrender of the existing endowments, but 
I think it more likely that the surrenders were necessary. However, even if the surrenders 
had been inappropriate, it wouldnt be possible to calculate any loss suffered because details 
of the policies would be needed  the start dates, premiums paid and surrender values. Due 
to the passage of time that information isnt available.
I will now consider the suitability of the replacement S policy. Mr S has mentioned issues 
that occurred in 2003 regarding misappropriate of funds from a member of the same 
business group as the product provider S. Whilst he appears to have accepted our 
investigators explanation that this happened in a completely separate business, he still 
appears to believe that it would have had an effect on his policy. At the time this happened 
financial markets had been in decline for a number of years and that significantly impacted 
on the returns being achieved by investment policies across the board. Financial scandals 
will often affect a business share price and that would feed into the overall financial 
environment. However, I am not persuaded it would have had a direct effect on Mr S 
endowment policy, although the general downturn in markets clearly had because it was 
known by 2003 the policy was unlikely to reach its target value.
I note that Mr S has said they were told the policy would pay off the mortgage and give them 
additional funds they could use for their retirement, as the target was slightly higher than the 
amount needed for the mortgage. The policy is a unit-linked one which means there are no 
guarantees linked to it, other than the amount that would be paid out on death during the 
term. I have seen nothing that indicates Embassy said the policy would definitely pay out the 
target amount. Indeed, Mr S has provided the illustration Embassy gave to him which shows 
that the maturity value was dependent on the growth achieved, that it could mature below 
the target amount and that the growth rates werent guaranteed.
The policy is invested in a cautious managed fund. The two existing endowments that were 
surrendered, given when they were arranged, were likely to have been traditional with-profits policies. We dont know the investment medium for the third policy and given when it was 
sold, it could have been either unitised with-profits or a managed fund investment. So it 
would appear that prior to their financial difficulties Mr and Mrs S were willing to accept at 
least some risk associated with their mortgage. I cant know for certain whether they were 
willing to accept the level of risk associated with the S policy, but I think given the 
circumstances it is possible they were. In order to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied 
the recommendation was unsuitable, and in the circumstances, I cant be satisfied it was. 
Furthermore, even if I were to find the S policy wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs S in 1992, 
again, I dont think it would be possible to calculate if they had suffered a loss. To do so we 
would need details about both the mortgage and the policy which are no longer available 
due to the passage of time.
Overall, while I know that this will disappoint Mr S, I dont consider this is a complaint I can 
uphold.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S and the representative of Mrs S estate to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman