DRN-2795697
The complaint
The estates of Mr C and Mrs C (the complainants) complain about the investment that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC advised the late Mr and Mrs C to make in 2000.
What happened
The late Mr and Mrs C met with a Barclays adviser in February 2000. Following the advisers 
recommendation, Mr and Mrs C invested £50,000 in a Barclays Personal Investment 
Management (BPIM) portfolio. 
Mr and Mrs C surrendered the plan in 2002 and received a total of £36,141.82. They had 
also received income of £4,237.13 on their investment.
The complainants say that the investment was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs C. They say Mr C 
was in very poor health at the time of the meeting with the adviser and would not have had 
the capacity to understand or agree to the investment. They also think the recommendation 
was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C because they had very little understanding of investments 
and they shouldnt have been advised to tie up any of their money for five years or more 
because of Mr Cs poor health.
Barclays have said Mr and Mrs C told their adviser they were in good health and they can 
only conclude the adviser wasnt aware of any health issues. They think the investment was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs C.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had given Mr and Mrs C unsuitable advice. 
The complainants disagree and have asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investment was sold to Mr and Mrs C more than 20 years ago during a face to face 
meeting with an adviser from Barclays. Since then both Mr and Mrs C have sadly passed 
away, so I dont have their recollections of what happened. In these circumstances, I need to 
consider the evidence that is available and make a decision on the balance of probabilities. 
The available evidence includes a copy of a fact find document from the time of sale. 
Such documents are usually completed by an adviser during the meeting where they are 
giving investment advice. 
Ive looked first at the complaint about Mr Cs health at the time of the sale. 
The complainants have said Mr C wouldnt have been able to contribute coherently to the 
meeting with the adviser and wouldnt have had the mental capacity to understand the 
investment or the associated risks. They say the adviser must just have ticked the box 
saying Mr and Mrs C were in good health without asking them anything about their state of 
health.
The complainants have provided a copy of detailed medical records for Mr C. Im not going 
to set out Mr Cs medical history in detail in this decision, but I have looked carefully at the 
records provided. Its clear that Mr C was suffering from a number of health conditions in 
February 2000. 
Mr C had been critically ill the previous year and was suffering from what became a long 
term speech impediment for which he was receiving therapy. I note that an assessment in 
October 1999 said Mr C managed well at simple conversational level, but he had difficulty 
processing more complex instructions and needed to have things repeated. 
I cant be sure whether the adviser spoke to Mr and Mrs C about their health. Its possible 
the adviser might have asked Mr and Mrs C something about their health, he could have 
made his own assessment or just ticked the box. But based on the evidence Ive seen, 
I dont think Mr C was in good health as described in the fact find. Ive therefore considered 
whether that means the investment was mis-sold. 
Although Mr C wasnt in good health, it doesnt necessarily follow that he didnt have the 
capacity to make decisions at the time the meeting with the adviser took place. I am mindful 
too that an individuals capacity can fluctuate. Ive also taken account of the fact that this was 
a joint investment, taken in both Mr and Mrs Cs names.  
In giving advice on this kind of investment, a business would not generally make a health 
assessment in the way they might before, for example, a customer takes out life insurance. 
The adviser would not have been qualified to assess Mr Cs health or mental capacity, but 
I note the assessment some months earlier had said Mr C managed well at conversational 
level.
Mrs C was in reasonably good health and its not uncommon for one party in a joint 
investment to take the lead in a discussion with an adviser. Between them Mr and Mrs C 
were able to provide the information requested by the adviser about their circumstances and 
their financial position. And both Mr and Mrs C appear to have signed the agreement to 
invest.
The complainants have said they think the adviser fabricated the fact find document. I dont 
think that was the case. I think Mr and Mrs C met the adviser and the fact find most likely 
reflects the conversation they had.  
I can understand why the complainants feel strongly about this, and I dont doubt the 
recollections of Mr Cs family about his health. I agree that contrary to what was recorded on 
the fact find, Mr C was not in good health. But I dont think I have enough information to be 
able to say its more likely than not that Mr C didnt have capacity to make the decision to 
invest. Ive also taken into account the assessment of Mr C made a few months earlier and 
that it appears no concerns were raised at the time by Mrs C, whose capacity isnt in dispute.  
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs C were pressured into making the investment or asked to 
make a decision they didnt have the capacity to make. So, overall, I dont think I can fairly 
say that, because of Mr Cs health at the time, the investment was mis-sold. 
Ive looked next at whether Barclays recommended a suitable investment for Mr and Mrs C. 
The adviser should have considered Mr and Mrs Cs financial situation, their knowledge and 
experience of investing, and their investment objectives. That would include taking account 
of their attitude to risk, their purpose in investing, and how long they wanted to invest their 
money for. At the time of the meeting with the adviser, Mr C was 71 and Mrs C was 68. They were both 
retired and had no dependents. Following Mr Cs serious illness, they had downsized to a 
smaller property in December 1999.
The adviser asked them about their financial situation. Mr and Mrs C were receiving income 
from their pensions and interest from their savings. Taking account of their normal 
expenditure, they had monthly disposable income of £367. Following their house move, 
Mr and Mrs C had £290,000 on deposit in savings accounts.
Mr and Mrs C told the adviser they had planned expenditure over the next two years of 
£20,000. They wanted to retain £220,000 of their savings in deposit accounts, leaving 
£50,000 to be invested. 
According to the fact find, Mr and Mrs C wanted to invest a lump sum in order to generate an 
income greater than the interest on a deposit account. They were prepared to invest the 
lump sum for at least five years and described their attitude to risk as low.
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs C invest £50,000 in a discretionary managed 
portfolio. The portfolio would be managed as high income with safety which meant that 
about 55% of the funds would be invested in equities and 40% in fixed interest investments, 
with about 5% held in cash.
I think the investment matched Mr and Mrs Cs attitude to risk and was affordable for them 
given their large cash savings. The £50,000 invested was less than 20% of their available 
savings. And the amount invested in equities and therefore exposed to greater fluctuations in 
value represented just 10% of their available funds. So, I think Mr and Mrs C had the 
capacity to absorb any losses they might incur. 
 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, and Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I think the 
discretionary managed portfolio was a suitable way of meeting their objectives.   
  
The complainants have said Mr and Mrs C didnt have the necessary experience and 
knowledge to understand the investment they were making. Although Mr and Mrs C had 
invested in personal equity plans (PEPs) in the past, I agree that overall, they had little 
experience of investments. 
But given the recent large increase in their cash savings I think it was reasonable for them to 
be looking to invest some of their funds elsewhere. As Ive already noted, this was a low risk 
investment for less than 20% of their available savings and the portfolio would be managed 
for them. Overall, I think it was a reasonable recommendation for investors of Mr and Mrs 
Cs experience.
The complainants have also said that investing for at least five years wasnt suitable given 
Mr Cs health. As Ive said earlier, I cant be sure what the adviser knew about Mr Cs health 
at the time. But taking account of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances, including their ages and 
the fact that Mrs C was in reasonably good health, I dont think it was unreasonable for the 
adviser to recommend an investment over that kind of timeframe 
Id like to reassure the complainants that Ive looked closely at all the evidence theyve 
provided. I can understand why they feel strongly about this matter, but I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable for me to say that Barclays mis-sold the investment to Mr and Mrs C.
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for the complainants, but I wont be upholding 
this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold the estates of Mr C 
and Mrs Cs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mr C 
and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman