DRN-3207409
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that they were mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account 
(URCA) in November 2012 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T say that they were pressured into taking out the URCA and it was not suitable 
for them.
Halifax says Mr and Mrs T chose to take out the URCA based on the information it had given 
them.
I wasnt there at the sale so I cant know for sure what was said or done. I can only look at 
the evidence thats available today.
Mr and Mrs T previously had a fee free account with an overdraft before they took out the 
URCA, so they knew these were available.
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs T were pressured into taking out the account. 
And while I acknowledge there may have been a conversation where Halifax said it would be 
a good thing for them if bought the URCA, they couldve closed it at any time after the sale 
but didnt for over a year
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T knew they had a choice and chose to 
take the URCA out.
Halifax has provided evidence that the URCA was taken out online. Mr and Mrs T have not 
disagreed with this. So, I think its more likely than not that they did apply online. 
This service generally regards online sales as non-advised and I dont see any reason for 
looking at this one differently. So, I think its more likely than not this was non-advised. This 
means that Halifax was not required to ensure the URCA was suitable for Mr and Mrs T, it 
was only required to provide enough information to ensure they were able to make an 
informed decision.
And I think it did. I say this because the online process requires the applicants to scroll 
through relevant information about the product and acknowledge theyve read it. 
And I can see why Mr and Mrs T may have been interested in the URCA. They had been 
using a substantial overdraft in the time leading up to the sale. And the URCA benefits 
included a £300 interest free overdraft, which they immediately benefited from, and which if 
they remained below the £300 limit effectively meant the other benefits were free.
So, while I know Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed, in my view I think its more likely than 
not that Halifax didnt do anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman