DRN-4178414
The complaint
Mr C complains that AJ Bell Securities Limited should have known, and given him fair 
warning, that buying certain shares through its platform would contravene rules that allowed 
those shares to be traded. 
When the decision was subsequently taken to remove that stock from A J Bells platform, 
this forced the sale of those shares he would no longer be able to trade in, resulting in 
financial loss which Mr C puts at around £19,000. Mr C wants A J Bell to compensate him. 
What happened
Mr C held an execution only ISA stocks and shares account with AJ Bell. He had a 
holding of shares in a company which Ill refer to as C, which he had bought through 
AJ Bell in October 2018.
The shares were owned and operated by a business I will call E as CREST 
Depository Interests (CDIs). CREST is the electronic system for holding securities 
and settling transactions in the United Kingdom and Ireland. CREST also distributes 
dividends and implements corporate actions and carries out many other important 
functions.
Shortly after a corporate action was announced concerning C, A J Bell notified Mr C 
that E had announced his C shares could no longer be traded. It said the reason was 
that C no longer satisfied the requirements for admission to the CREST system due 
to the connection with a certain controlled substance and that it would accordingly be 
removed from the CREST system. A J Bell explained that this meant Mr C wouldnt 
any longer be able to hold his C shares and he had to sell them by 31 October 2022. 
A J Bell said that if it didnt receive Mr Cs sale instruction by 31 October 2022, it 
would sell the shares for him.
Mr C responded expressing his disappointment at this news and he asked A J Bell if the 
same rule had been in place when he bought his C shares, and if so, why it had allowed him 
to purchase the shares through its platform. 
A J Bell said it had only recently been notified by CREST that it would no longer be 
supporting the trading, holding and settlement of shares of companies that had a connection 
to this particular controlled substance. A J Bell said it had already obtained an extension to 
the deadline and exhausted other possible avenues that included finding a way to keep 
trading in the shares in some alternative way to using CREST. 
Mr C said he wanted to plead his case directly with CREST and reiterated to AJ Bell that it 
should have prevented him from buying C shares if the rule had applied retrospectively. 
Mr C also made contact with E and he asked A J Bell to act for me to convince E that it 
must not retrospectively apply their new interpretation of CREST Rule 7 to persons such 
as myself who have held these shares for 4 years during which time a considerable loss has 
accumulated which will be imposed upon me should I be obliged to sell. Do not sell my 
shares
There was further correspondence between Mr C and A J Bell during which period the 
October deadline was extended by E to 3 February 2023. 
On 31 December 2022, A J Bell sent a secure message to Mr C telling him that from 
9 January 2023 it would start the process of selling his C shares and the cash proceeds 
would be applied to his account. 
In response to his complaint, A J Bell said it could appreciate Mr Cs dissatisfaction, but 
didnt agree it had done anything wrong saying (in brief summary), that:
following a change in regulation, E had decided to remove from its holdings stock 
related to this particular controlled substance and that decision was out of A J Bells 
control
A J Bell had thoroughly explored all other options but ultimately been required to 
restrict the stock 
its terms and conditions allowed it to do this
A J Bell had provided Mr C with the option of having his C shares registered in his 
own name, but he needed to give instructions for that to happen by 31 October 2022. 
When Mr C brought his complaint to us, our investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. She concluded that AJ Bell hadnt had any influence over the 
events that led to C being removed from the CREST system and she said it was Mr Cs own 
choice to invest. She didnt think AJ Bell had made any error or that it was responsible for 
any financial loss Mr C suffered. 
Mr C didnt agree. He replied in detail to say, in summary, that the investigator had over 
simplified things and:
Crest Rule 7 had been retrospectively strictly applied by E, forcing A J Bell to require 
all of their clients to have to sell affected shares 
the rule had been in place when the shares were bought and A J Bell had a duty of 
care to customers, even if the account was execution only. So A J Bell should either 
not have allowed such shares to be bought through its website or it should have 
advised clients of the Crest Rule 7 contravention, but as A J Bell did neither of these 
things, it should compensate him for loss. 
Mr C said A J Bell had acted incorrectly and unreasonably and pointed to the fact 
that on its platform it was still offering shares in other companies with links to the 
same controlled substance.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mr C feels about this complaint and I sympathise with the position 
he found himself in. My role is to consider all the evidence presented by the parties and 
reach a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Ive expressed some of 
Mr Cs concerns in my own words and my focus is on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this and this approach simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. 
In addition to complaining about A J Bell, Mr C is also unhappy about the way CREST and E 
have dealt with matters but, just to confirm, I am looking only at his complaint specifically 
about A J Bell. And having considered everything very carefully, I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
Mr C has an execution only trading account with AJ Bell. This means AJ Bell did not 
provide investment advice to Mr C and it was up to Mr C to decide for himself how he 
wanted to invest his money when he chose to invest in company C.
A J Bell didnt have responsibility for determining compliance with CREST requirements. 
And I havent seen enough to fairly say that A J Bell made any error when it enabled 
Mr C to invest in company C via its platform. Mr C was aware of the nature of Cs 
trading activity and he felt this was an attractive investment option for him with 
significant potential for future growth. It was up to Mr C to decide if putting his money 
into company C was right for him. It was only after he invested that E determined on a 
risk-based approach that stock in company C did not meet the criteria for admission to 
the CREST system as set out under CREST Rule 7. Following that, as far as I can see, 
A J Bell acted promptly in response to the corporate action once it was announced, 
notifying Mr C of the consequences for him. 
A J Bell was entitled, under the terms and conditions that Mr C had agreed to in order to 
be able to use his account, to alter the permitted investments range at anytime 
without notice and require the sale (or at our discretion if the related regulatory 
requirements permit, transfer out or withdrawal) of investments removed from it   
So I find that A J Bell was entitled to take the action it did. Nonetheless, just because 
A J Bell acted in line with its terms and conditions doesnt mean it shouldnt fairly and 
reasonably have done more. Mr C was entitled to expect A J Bell to treat him fairly and 
reasonably and Ive considered this aspect carefully. 
A J Bell negotiated an initial extension to 31 October 2022 to allow customers additional time 
to consider their position. It explored alternative options such as finding other custodians to 
which it had access who might be willing to hold the shares as an alternative to CREST. It 
also explained that, if Mr C didnt wish to sell his C shares, up until the 31 October deadline it 
was offering him the opportunity to withdraw the shares from its nominee holding and have 
them transferred to Mr C to be registered directly in his name in certificated form. In the event, A J Bell couldnt find anyone else willing to take on the shares and Mr C didnt 
apply to have the shares transferred to him nor had he instigated the sale of his C shares 
himself. A J Bell had by then identified that market liquidity issues for these sorts of shares 
were making them difficult to trade in and took steps to find the best options for a sale. 
Ultimately, after reminding Mr C that the shares would be sold and confirming that this would 
start to happen after 9 January 2023, A J Bell took the action it said it would. I dont think that 
was unfair or unreasonable given that it had:
provided customers with as much notice as it could about this, and
exhausted any and all alternative avenues it had identified, and
set out some options giving customers a degree of choice (even if these were 
understandably unattractive alternatives so far as Mr C was concerned), and
handled the sale on behalf of customers who otherwise risked ending up holding 
stock that would be effectively illiquid for UK shareholders like Mr C who would be left 
without access to any avenue allowing him to trade in C shares.    
In order to uphold this complaint I would have to find that A J Bell made an error or didnt act 
towards Mr C in a fair and reasonable way. After having taken into account everything that 
Mr C and A J Bell have told me, I havent seen enough to show that A J Bell did anything 
wrong or that it treated Mr C in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. 
So I cant uphold this complaint. 
In coming to my decision, I've thought carefully about everything Mr C has said, including his 
comments made in response to the investigators view. But he hasnt said anything that 
changes the outcome of this complaint. Hes mentioned that shares in other companies 
linked to the same controlled substance were still being offered in February 2023. But, for 
the reasons I've explained, this alone isnt a good enough reason for me to uphold his 
complaint about the way A J Bell treated him in relation to his shares in company C. 
Mr C has also said that Es actions, requiring shares to be sold resulting in significant 
financial loss, should be unacceptable to financial and legal authorities. Im also aware that 
Mr C feels strongly that share dealing organisations like A J Bell should proactively act on 
behalf of clients to fight Es decision, and he believes that a court would likely find E acted in 
contravention of principles of natural justice. But the remit of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to investigate complaints and reach a fair and reasonable outcome. How 
businesses choose to operate and the services they offer are matters that come under the 
oversight of the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I cant make legal findings 
the way a court would do and telling A J Bell it should take a lead on a legal challenge to Es 
actions isnt something I would have power to do in any event.   
If I have not referred to every point Mr C has raised, its because I have concentrated on 
what I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of his complaint and theres 
nothing more I can usefully add to what the investigator has said already. But I hope that 
setting things out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman