DRN-1702655
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc closed his account.
What happened
Mr A had a current account with Santander.
In May 2019, Santander received information that Mr A had arranged to receive a fraudulent 
credit into his account. Santander then decided to review Mr As account. Whilst it completed 
the review it blocked the account. When it had finished its review, Santander decided to 
close Mr As account immediately.
Mr A complained to Santander. He said he hadnt done anything wrong, and he wants 
Santander to reopen his account. Santander reviewed its decision to close Mr As account. 
But said it closed his account in line with the terms. Santander explained this was because it 
had concerns about how Mr A intended to use his account. Mr A wasnt happy with this 
response. He says Santander havent given him a proper explanation about why it no longer 
wants him as a customer. So, he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint. He said Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had closed Mr As account. Mr A disagreed. And asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. So, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr A has told us and the bank that he feels strongly about his complaint. 
But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something 
wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why. 
As the investigator said in his view, its generally for banks to decide whether they want to 
provide or continue to provide banking services to a customer. Thats because it has the 
commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. 
Banks should however give a customer reasonable notice about its intention to close an 
account. Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr As accounts, Santander could close the 
accounts by giving him 60 days notice. But it can be less. And under certain circumstances 
Santander can close an account immediately.
Having looked at the circumstances of this complaint and the information Santander relied 
on to close Mr As account, Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to close Mr As account 
without notice, given the concerns it had about how Mr A was operating his account. So, 
whilst appreciate this caused Mr A inconvenience, I cant say Santander have treated Mr A 
unfairly when it decided to close his account. And Im not going to ask Santander to reopen his account. I note too, that Mr A had several accounts with other banks, so the immediate 
impact on him would have been reduced. 
Mr A says that Santander didnt let him know why it was closing his account. But Santander 
isnt obliged to provide Mr A with an explanation. However, the bank has provided evidence 
to show that at the time it had more than one phone conversation with Mr A, about why it 
had decided to close his account.
From looking at the contact notes, I think its likely Mr A did have some understanding of why 
Santander no longer wanted him as a customer. I say this because the notes show on 18 
May 2019, the bank explained its concerns about Mr As account activity and spoke to him in 
some detail about the information it had received. The notes show that in response, Mr A 
denied any wrongdoing. And the bank then reviewed its decision to close Mr As account. 
So, Im satisfied Santander did give Mr A an explanation for why it had decided to close his 
account. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr A feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Santander has acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr A unfairly when it closed his account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman