DRN-4082181
The complaint
Mr M complains that Premier Insurance Company Limited (Premier) unfairly cancelled his 
motor insurance policy leaving him without cover following an accident when driving.   
What happened
Mr M says he arranged for motor insurance cover to be provided for two cars via his broker. 
Both policies were set up with Premier. He understood the policies were in force and 
everything was okay. Following an accident he was involved in, he found out that his policies 
had been cancelled. 
Mr M says he was aware of receiving correspondence regarding his policies. But he didnt 
read them. He says he thought this was the policy documentation. When he complained to 
his broker, he was told hed failed to declare an at-fault incident from December 2021. He 
was told had his insurer been aware of this incident it wouldnt have offered cover. Mr M 
didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. 
We contacted Premier as Mr Ms insurer for it to provide its account of events. Premier 
hadnt received a complaint at this point, as Mr M had directed his concerns to his broker. It 
subsequently provided him with its complaint response. In this it says Mr M initially benefited 
from a discount. However, this was removed when it became aware of the undisclosed at-
fault incident. This meant the cost of his premiums increased. This increase pushed the 
premium beyond the level accepted under Premiers underwriting criteria. This is why the 
policy was cancelled.
Premier says this information was communicated to Mr M via his broker on 8 December 
2022. This told him he would need alternative cover as the policies would cancel in two 
weeks. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair and asked for our service to review the matter. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says Premier had acted fairly and in line with the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). He says Mr M 
failed to declare an incident that he was required to. This means he made a qualifying 
misrepresentation when taking out his policies. Our investigator didnt think Premier acted 
unfairly when it cancelled cover on 23 December 2022 because of this misrepresentation.   
Mr M didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him, but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Premier is Mr Ms insurer. So, although he contacted his broker in relation to this matter, its 
Premier thats responsible for providing his insurance policy. Ultimately it was Premiers 
decision to cancel cover, so its correct that it is the respondent business in this complaint. 
My focus here is on whether Premier treated Mr M fairly when cancelling his insurance 
policy. 
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Premier says Mr M failed to provide accurate information relating to his claims history. It 
says when validating his application, it identified an at-fault incident. This was recorded on 
the Consumer Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database used by the industry. Mr M hadnt 
declared this incident when he applied for his policy.
Premier explains that when this incident was factored into Mr Ms application it increased his 
premium to a level that meant its underwriting criteria wouldnt accept him as a customer. 
This meant it was no longer able to provide cover and the policy was cancelled as of 23 
December 2022. 
Ive looked at the screenshots Premier provided that show the question Mr M was asked 
about his claims history. The application was made using a comparison website. The 
question asked was:
Claims
Have you had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the past 5 years, no matter who was 
at fault or if a claim was made?
Mr M didnt declare an incident that occurred in December 2021. I can see from the covering 
letter Mr M was sent along with his policy documents, that he was asked to check the details 
of his cover and ensure all the details were correct. The statement of insurance document 
included with this information also tells Mr M to contact Premier as soon as possible if any of 
the information isnt correct. It says, Failure to do so may result in your insurance being 
cancelled or in your claim being rejected or not fully paid.  
Mr M says he forgot about the incident from December 2021. But having considered his 
comments I dont think he took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. The 
question asked was clear and it was for Mr M to ensure he declared all incidents hed been 
involved in. The policy documents Mr M received also reiterated the need for accurate 
information to be provided and the potential consequences if it wasnt. 
Premier has provided its underwriting criteria. This information is commercially sensitive so I 
cant share it. But Ive read what it says, and Im satisfied that Premier wouldnt offer cover to 
Mr M once it was aware of his full claims history. In these circumstances it confirms it would act to cancel the policy. This means Mr M did make a qualifying misrepresentation under the 
CIDRA rules. 
I note Mr Ms comments that the application form he completed asked him to declare five 
years claims details. He says he was questioned about incidents from 2018 and 2019 by his 
broker. Mr M says he was under the impression the business wanted to know about the past 
five years. This meant a fault claim he had in October 2018 shouldve been considered. And 
would mean he shouldnt have met the criteria to be offered cover at inception. 
I can also see that Mr Ms policy schedule shows two further claims in June and August 
2019.
I acknowledge Mr Ms comments and the claims history highlighted. But Premiers 
underwriting criteria show these earlier claims didnt impact on his insurance application. 
However, the claim from December 2021 did, which Mr M failed to declare. The questions 
were clear that this information was required.    
Mr Ms policy terms say:
You must take reasonable care to ensure that the information provided by You or on Your 
behalf in relation to Your [brokers name] Car Insurance is provided honestly, fully and to the 
best of Your knowledge. If any of Your insurance or personal details set out in Your 
documents are incorrect or incomplete, or if You need to make a change to Your policy, 
please call the Customer Services helpline as soon as possible. A full list of the changes to 
be notified is outlined in Section 16 of this policy document. Failure to do so may result in 
Your insurance being cancelled or treated as if it never existed or Your claim being rejected 
or not fully paid.
As above, I think the information Premier required from Mr M was made clear. 
Premier says it made an error when it first responded to Mr Ms complaint. It explains that it 
didnt request the cancellation, rather the broker made this decision. Because of this it 
confirmed there were no adverse cancellation markers against Mr Ms policy, and this 
neednt be declared to future insurers. 
In its second response Premier explained the broker had been correct to cancel both 
policies. The brokers systems had accurately identified that Premiers underwriting criteria 
wouldnt provide cover for Mr M. This means Premier wouldve instructed the cancellation. 
But as a goodwill gesture in these circumstances, it says it wouldnt record this as an 
enforced cancellation.  
I can see that Mr Ms broker sent him emails on 8 December 2022 telling him his policy was 
going to be cancelled. It offered alternative cover but told him he must contact it to agree to 
this or the policy would be cancelled. Premier explained this would mean there was no 
insurance cover in place. It wrote again when no contact was received from Mr M to confirm 
the policies had been cancelled. 
Having considered this information, I think Premiers decision was fair, and that it 
communicated this to Mr M clearly. It chose not to avoid the policy back to inception. This 
remedy was available under the CIDRA rules. However, Premier chose to cancel instead. 
Avoidance as opposed to cancelation has more significant consequences when obtaining 
future insurance. So, I dont think Premier acted unfairly toward Mr M by cancelling his 
policies in these circumstances.   
   In summary, although Im sorry Mr M was involved in an accident when he didnt have 
insurance cover in place. I dont think Premier is at fault for this. I dont think it treated him 
unfairly when it relied on its policy terms and cancelled his policies for providing inaccurate 
information. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman