DRN-2725836
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office Financial Services, 
failed to send her annual statements, and thereby failed to tell her that the interest rate on 
her accounts had dropped.
What happened
Mrs L had two savings accounts with Bank of Ireland, which were opened in 2013 and 2014 
and closed in 2020. The original interest rate on the 2013 account was 1.35% a year, but in 
2014 this dropped to 0.10%. She says that she was unaware of this because the bank had 
never sent her annual statements. She complained that if she had known, she would have 
moved her savings elsewhere, to receive a better interest rate. She asked for a refund of all 
the interest she said she had lost out on since 2014. Likewise, the 2014 account had started 
with an interest rate of 1.00% a year, which also dropped to 0.10% after one year.
Bank of Ireland did not agree to do refund anything. It said it had sent Mrs L a statement 
each year, for each account. It also pointed out that the terms and conditions which were 
sent to her when the accounts were opened had made it clear that the opening interest rates 
were promotional rates which would each expire after one year. It had not been realistic to 
expect the accounts to maintain the same interest rates for six or seven years. The bank 
also said that if Mrs L had really not been receiving statements, then it had been her 
responsibility to chase them up, instead of waiting for six years, or she could have checked 
the interest rate online.
Mrs L brought this complaint to our Service, represented by her husband, who I will call Mr L.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted that the bank had sent the 
statements, and he thought it was more likely than not that Mrs L had received them. This 
was partly because there was evidence that Mrs L had received other correspondence from 
the bank, and also because he thought it was implausible that so many statements would all 
go missing. He noted that the letters and statements were correctly addressed. He also said 
that as long as the bank had sent them, it was not the banks fault if they really had got lost 
in the post. Furthermore, he thought Mrs L had received letters in 2014 and 2015 telling her 
that her bonus interest rates were about to expire.
Mr L did not accept that decision. He insisted that his wife had not received the statements. 
(He also raised some new issues, such as whether she had actually been paid the correct 
interest in 2018 and 2019.) He asked for an ombudsman to comprehensively review the 
entire case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I am not going to review the new issues which have been raised since this complaint was 
first brought to us. Those matters would have to be brought to the bank separately so it can 
investigate them. This is required by rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority, which 
set out the limits of our Services jurisdiction. So I have confined this decision to the initial 
complaint about Mrs L not receiving annual statements, with the result that she was not 
informed about the drop in the interest rates on her accounts. (Her husbands complaint 
about the same issue is being dealt with separately.)
While I have seen that both parties have made detailed submissions, I am not going to 
address every single point here. I will only make the findings which I think are necessary to 
resolve this complaint.
The normal interest rate on Mrs Ls accounts at the times they were opened was 0.10% a 
year, and there were introductory bonus rates of 1.25% and 0.90%, making totals of 1.35% 
and 1.00% respectively. The bonus rates lasted for 12 months from the dates the accounts 
were opened. This was explained in the account opening literature. I have also read the 
account terms and conditions, which state in the glossary:
Introductory Bonus means a fixed interest rate that may be applied to a Variable 
Rate Account for a fixed period. The fixed period commences from the date the 
Variable Rate Account is opened.
So I think it was made clear, and should have been clear, to Mrs L that the rates would not 
remain at the bonus rates indefinitely. 
In paragraph 17, under the heading Interest, the terms and conditions state:
Our rates of interest are variable, unless otherwise stated. You can find out about 
our interest rates, including any introductory bonus or tiers by:
(a) visiting the Website  www.postoffice.co.uk;
(b) calling the Customer Service Centre.
So even if Mrs L did not receive any statements, it was always open to her to find out what 
the interest rate was whenever she wanted to. I dont think it was reasonable to assume that 
the rate would not change, or to rely on the absence of annual statements (assuming she 
didnt get any) as a reason to suppose that the rates had remained and would continue to 
remain at 1.35% and 1.00% for more than six years.
Ultimately, the responsibility for ensuring that an account is offering a satisfactory interest 
rate lies with each account holder. That does not absolve the bank of its duty to provide 
annual statements, in accordance with the terms and conditions which state that it will do so. 
But if statements did not show up each year, then I think it was Mrs Ls responsibility to 
mitigate the potential consequences by asking the bank to send them again.
It follows that it is not strictly necessary for me to make a finding about whether Mrs L 
received or did not receive any statements, since even if she did not receive a single one, 
that would not be sufficient reason in my view to order the bank to reimburse her the 
difference between the interest she received from 2014 and 2015 and the interest she could 
have got if she had moved her money elsewhere, or even to reimburse her 50% of that 
amount (as Mr L has suggested as an alternative remedy).
However, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that Bank of Ireland did in fact send the 
statements. The banks system records show that they were sent, and I have seen that they 
were correctly addressed. The banks duty is only to send the statements, and I consider 
that duty to be fulfilled if they are sent in the ordinary post: there is no requirement to send them by recorded or signed for delivery. It is not the banks fault if what it sends is then lost 
in the post, since the bank has no control over that, the mail being operated by a third party. 
But I will go further than that and say that I also do not believe that it is probable or plausible 
that not one statement was delivered.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
The bank has offered Mrs L £75 as compensation for some unrelated issues to do with the 
same account; I leave it to Mrs L to decide whether she now wishes to accept that offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021. Mr L may reply on her behalf, if she wishes.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman