DRN-1967228
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mrs H took out the policy in a shop in February 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs H originally said that she couldnt remember how the PPI had been sold to her. In 
response to our adjudicators assessment, Mrs H then said that she was told in the shop that 
shed have a better chance of getting the store card if she agreed to the insurance. Ive no 
doubt that Mrs H has provided her genuine recollection of events. But the sale was a long 
time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mrs H completed at the time. There is a 
separate section for PPI which is called Account Cover. It states that you should only sign 
in the box if you require Account Cover. Mrs H has signed in the box to request the PPI. She 
has then signed and dated the form at the bottom.
Looking at the available evidence, I think that Mrs H would have known from the wording 
and layout of the form that the PPI was optional. Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H has 
said but, on balance, Im not persuaded that she was pressured into taking out the PPI. 
Overall, it seems to me that she decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if 
she no longer remembers doing so.
AXA didnt advise Mrs H to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. But 
it did need to provide her with enough information for her to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs H cant recall whether shed have received any sick pay from her employer beyond three 
days. And she didnt have any other means, such as savings, that she could fall back on. So 
I think that Mrs H had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would 
have been a difficult time.
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no worse off as a 
result of anything AXA may have done wrong. So theres nothing AXA needs to do to put 
things right.
Mrs H has said that another complaint of hers has been upheld and so this one should be 
too. I havent looked at the details of her other complaint. However, having considered the 
evidence in relation to this case, I am unable to conclude that the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman