DRN-1276338
The complaint
Miss P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) declined a claim for treatment her dog 
received for a cruciate ligament rupture. She also complains the policy was mis-sold.
What happened
Miss P had pet insurance for her dog which she took out in February 2019. She made a 
claim when the dog needed surgery to its right leg for a cruciate ligament rupture. RSA said 
that, based on the fact the dog had received treatment for the same condition in the other leg 
in May 2018, this was a bi-lateral condition, meaning it was the same underlying condition 
for both legs. It said the condition was pre-existing and declined the claim.
Miss P complained to RSA. She said the problem with the right leg wasnt linked to the 
problem with the left leg, rather, it was the result of an injury. She also said shed received 
poor service and that the policy had been mis-sold.
RSA said that, based on the dogs medical history, plus its vets knowledge of issues with 
cruciate ligaments, it was unable to agree the condition wasnt related to the previous trouble 
with the other leg. And it didnt accept the policy had been mis-sold. It explained that, before 
she bought the policy, Miss P had asked about the cruciate ligament issue and whether it 
would be covered if it happened in the other leg. RSA said it would need to consider the 
dogs medical history before being able to confirm or deny cover, and it confirmed pre-
existing conditions wouldnt be covered. But it accepted there had been poor service, for 
which it apologised and offered £20 compensation.
Complaining to this service, Miss P said her vet had said the problem with her dogs right leg 
was the result of a trauma and wasnt linked to the previous problem with the other leg. She 
also complained the policy had been mis-sold, explaining that when she took out the policy, 
she was told it would provide cover for the right leg if she could provide evidence the right 
leg wasnt affected by the previous issue with the left leg.
Our investigator listened to recordings of the calls that took place before Miss P took out the 
policy. He was satisfied Miss P was told RSA wouldn't cover pre-existing conditions and it 
had been explained that if there was a claim and it was shown the injury was unrelated to 
the cruciate ligament, it would consider the claim. So, he didnt think the policy had been 
mis-sold.
Regarding the claim, our investigator commented that there was no evidence in the dogs 
medical notes of a trauma to the right leg. He noted Miss Ps vet had said the problem with 
the right leg wasnt linked to the problem with the left leg, but he wasnt satisfied this was 
properly explained. Overall, he thought the problem with the right leg was most likely linked 
to a pre-existing condition and therefore RSAs decision to decline the claim was fair.
Miss Ps asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She accepts the policy 
wasnt mis-sold, but shes argued her vet, as the treating vet, has confirmed the current 
problem wasnt linked to the previous rupture. She doesnt think it was made clear that RSA could challenge the treating vets opinion, and she thinks the term relating to linked 
conditions is unclear. 
Shes provided a report from her vet which she believes confirms the ruptured ligament was 
due to trauma as a result of exercise, and that it was possible that running could cause a 
ligament to rupture. Shes also produced evidence from other sources which she says 
supports her complaint. And shes pointed to the dogs medical notes which she believes 
supports there having been a partial and then complete rupture, following exercise.
Miss P has also argued that RSAs vet had failed to produce evidence that a force of four 
times the dogs bodyweight would be required to cause a rupture. She believes her research 
shows cruciate ligament ruptures can occur from normal exercise and argues there was no 
mention in her vets notes of a chronic (or degenerative) injury. Shes also said RSAs vet 
didnt discuss the circumstances with her or examine the dog.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the various calls leading up to the sale of the policy, Miss P was told it didnt cover 
pre-existing conditions and that if a claim was made, RSA would request information from 
her vet. It was explained that if it was shown the illness/injury was unrelated to a previous 
illness/injury, RSA would consider the claim. Im satisfied this was a clear and accurate 
description of the terms of the policy and I note Miss P now accepts the policy wasnt mis-
sold. Further, the policy wording states the policy will not cover illness or injury that develops 
from any changes that you or your vet notices in your pets health or behaviour before this 
policy starts, and Im satisfied this term is clear. 
Miss Ps feels her claim should be covered because the treating vet said the conditions 
werent linked. But its reasonable for insurers to investigate the circumstances of claims that 
are made, and this may involve the use of their own experts where appropriate. 
The problem with the right leg first features in the medical notes on 25 April 2019, when the 
dog is recorded as limping and holding right leg up intermittently as of recently. At this 
point, the treating vet noted they couldnt feel a cranial drawer, which indicates a ligament 
rupture. The following month, a cruciate ligament rupture was suspected, and the dog was 
referred for surgery. The treating vet noted the problem was not connected to any other leg 
problem 
But RSAs vet disagreed the two problems were unrelated. Having considered the dogs 
medical notes, which included a comment that the cause of the problem with the left leg was 
prob trauma, they said for a cruciate ligament to rupture as a result of trauma there has to 
be a force of [four] times the dogs body weight put through the ligament  this would not be 
generated by running in the garden. For this activity to cause sudden damage to the 
ligament there would have to be a weakness there caused by gradual degeneration of the 
ligament and the vet had mentioned a grumbling weakness in the leg previously. This is 
something that happens to both legs ligaments over time  progressive degenerative 
disease  and is the reason we are describing it as pre-existing. There has been no 
evidence provided of any observed actual trauma, probable trauma is inconclusive.
Miss Ps vet later added I cant provide any definitive evidence that the ligament ruptures 
were simply due to trauma, but in each case it happened at exercise; she may have caught 
her foot while running and sprained the stifle joint.Responding to Miss Ps vets comments, RSAs vet stated there is no justification for 
claiming this as traumatic whatsoever. I will always stand by the comment that running is 
NOT a trauma, it is a normal activity for an animal. A sudden twist of the leg is different, that 
IS a trauma but not running and playingthere is absolutely no way I would allow this as 
traumatic. The dog had a grumbling lameness from [25/04/2019] when they immediately 
suspect a partial cruciate issue and then 1 month later goes acutely lame.so not traumatic. 
This is a typical degenerative presentation.
Miss Ps undertaken significant research into the issue of cruciate ligament ruptures which 
she says contradicts RSAs vets view that the injury couldnt have been sustained while 
running in the garden. Ive considered the information shes provided along with the 
comments from both vets, and I think it does support her arguments. But I also accept 
ligament ruptures can occur through deterioration of the joint over time, and that in 
degenerative cases, you might see incidents of the same condition in each leg.
However, the fact the injury occurred in both legs isnt evidence, in itself, of a linked 
condition, and I must base my assessment of the fairness of RSAs decision on all the 
available evidence. 
Having reviewed the medical notes, its clear the treating vet didnt think the two conditions 
were linked. But, theres no note of Miss P having witnessed anything and, having examined 
the dog, the treating vet accepted he didnt know what caused the second rupture. I agree 
the fact the treating vet did examine the dog adds weight to their opinion, but there is simply 
no evidence of the dog having suffered a trauma and there doesnt seem to be any real 
basis for the treating vet having said the problem isnt linked to another condition.
I accept RSAs vet didnt examine the dog and seems to have based their assessment on 
the medical notes and their knowledge of the condition. But, taking into account the fact the 
condition has occurred in both legs, the fact theres evidence of the right leg having 
deteriorated over time and the fact theres no evidence of a trauma, I dont think their 
conclusion is unreasonable.
Consequently, Im satisfied RSAs decision to decline the claim on the basis of it having 
been a pre-existing condition was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman