DRN-1451642
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds actions in relation 
to his pet insurance policy.
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
After a successful claim Red Sands added an exclusion to Mr Rs pet insurance 
policy. When Mr R complained about this, Red Sands removed it, calling it 
unnecessary. So, under these circumstances Im satisfied Red Sands shouldnt have 
added this exclusion  as they removed it with no additional information from Mr R.
 
Mr R has said because of this he took out another insurance policy to keep his pet 
covered, at a higher cost  and cancelled his policy with Red Sands. Based on all the 
evidence, I dont think this was an unreasonable step for Mr R to take given he no 
longer had cover at this time.
When Red Sands said theyd remove the exclusion from his policy, they also said he 
could reinstate it if he repaid premiums from cancellation to when it was reinstated. I 
think this was reasonable for Red Sands to say  but they should have made sure he 
wasnt out of pocket as hed paid for an additional policy. This means they should 
have looked to put him back in the position he should have been but for the error. 
Theyve said it wasnt necessary for the exclusion to be placed and removed it. So, 
because Im satisfied Mr Rs actions following this were reasonable, Ive concluded 
Red Sands are responsible for Mr Rs financial losses here  and Mr R has said he 
wishes to reinstate his policy.
Red Sands also referred to Mr Rs pet by the wrong name and paid £50 
compensation for this to resolve that issue. Im satisfied thats a fair amount.
My final decision
For these reasons my decision is to uphold this complaint and order Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to:
Reinstate the policy on the terms outlined in Red Sands letter dated 20 June 2019.
Ensure Mr R only pays the amount he was due to pay under this policy and that hes 
refunded any additional costs incurred, including payments made to his other insurer.
Pay interest on those different amounts at an annual rate of 8% simple a year from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement  this is only applicable if Mr R 
reinstates the policy.
Pay Mr R £100 compensation for the errors that have occurred.
Pay Mr R £50 compensation for getting his pets name wrong (if they havent 
already).
HM Revenue & Customs requires Red Sands to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Red Sands must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
deducted if he asks them for one.
Since Mr R isnt required to cancel his existing policy, and this would be his choice, if he 
were to choose not to do that  then Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited would 
only be required to pay him the £100 and £50 compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman