DRN-1660623
The complaint
This is a complaint that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Ms G. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2005. Capital One sold Ms G the 
policy either at the same time that she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Ms G has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain 
why.
I think Capital One made Ms G aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. There is a 
section about PPI on the card application form, and you tick the box if you want PPI. I 
can see the box has been ticked on Ms Gs form.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Gs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Capital One explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Capital One gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. The information on the form wasnt clear enough and I dont know if other 
information was given at the same time. But I dont think full information about costs 
and benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. I say this because, in her 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. The PPI 
would have paid out for longer than her likely employer sick pay, and would have 
been in addition to that. And it doesnt seem she had substantial savings at the time, 
and the PPI would have put of the time when shed need to use such resources. Also 
it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the 
policy.
 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms G. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms G because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms G about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Ms G, that was unfair. To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms G.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Ms G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman