DRN-2724233
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as B have complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down 
their business interruption insurance claim after they were impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. Mr S, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf.  
For ease of reading, reference to Covea will include the actions and comments of its agents. 
What happened
B hold a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. B claimed on their policy after 
they were impacted by the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. Covea said the 
policy didnt cover Bs claim because Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. 
  
As Covea refused to pay Bs claim, Mr S brought Bs complaint to our service. He said B had 
expected to be covered for business interruption and felt that being forced to close was 
tantamount to having their licence withdrawn. 
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld, as she didnt 
think Covid-19 had caused damage to property. She also didnt think the Governments 
response to the pandemic had led to the permanent removal of Bs animal boarding licence. 
B asked for an ombudsmans decision in light of the Supreme Court judgment on the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Bs business, but I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Covea has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Bs claim.  
 
Having reviewed Bs policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for their 
closure as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. However, I 
would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which appear most relevant 
provide cover. 
 
Damage 
 
Section 2 of Bs policy provides cover for loss resulting from interruption or interference in 
consequence of an Event to Property. 
The policy defines Event as Damage to Property used by the Insured at the Premises for 
the purpose of the Business. 
Damage is specifically defined in the policy as The physical loss or destruction of, or 
damage to Property. 
 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property used at Bs 
premises, so this section doesnt cover Bs claim. 
Extensions for denial of access and loss of licence
The policy sets out extensions which cover interruption or interference in consequence of 
Damage by an Event at any Situation or to any property shown below 
The extension for denial of access says:
Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the 
Premises
This extension would require damage to property in the vicinity of Bs premises and for that 
damage to have prevented or hindered the use of or access to Bs premises. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property in the vicinity of Bs premises 
that prevented or hindered the use of or access to Bs premises, so I dont think this 
extension covers their claim. 
The extension for loss of licence says:
As the result of the permanent loss of the insureds animal boarding establishment 
licence
I dont think this extension covers Bs claim either because the interruption to their business 
wasnt as a result of them permanently losing their animal boarding licence. 
Mr S has referred to the Supreme Court judgment. But the terms considered in the test case 
were different to those in Bs policy, and I dont think the outcome of the test case impacts 
their claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman