DRN-4250233
The complaint
Mr C complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly lent to 
him when providing him with a credit card.
What happened
My understanding is Mr C applied for a Tesco credit card in April 2022, and he was given a 
credit limit of £3,850. He says he had six other credit cards and was utilising over 90% of the 
limits on those at the point of his application. Mr C also says he was gambling quite heavily, 
and Tesco didnt take this into account either.
Tesco said they assessed his application and took information from the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs). They said when Mr C applied for the card he told them he earned £2,800, 
and had monthly outgoings of £2,051 including mortgage payments. So, they calculated he 
had a total disposable income of £749  along with no bankruptcies, County Court 
Judgments or arrears. So, they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr C asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
didnt think Tesco had acted fairly in lending to Mr C. So, they recommended the complaint 
be upheld.
Mr C accepted this, Tesco ultimately didnt, saying theyd made a fair decision. So, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained on our website how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending, and Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs case.
Tesco were required to make sure they didnt lend irresponsibly  which meant they had to 
gather details of Mr Cs circumstances to ensure he could sustainably repay this credit 
facility if required.
This is called carrying out proportionate checks. Our website sets out what proportionate 
checks are  so Ive looked at what information Tesco gathered to see if it carried out 
proportionate checks.
We generally say the higher the amount of borrowing, or the lower a borrowers salary, the 
more a lender needs to do to satisfy themselves theyve gathered proportionate information. 
Equally, if the amount of borrowing is low, and the salary is high, then the less wed say 
lenders need to do in order to show it didnt lend irresponsibly.
Mr Cs lending is a credit card, which is a type of revolving credit. Tesco had to ensure Mr C 
could afford to repay the whole balance within a reasonable period of time.
Based on information theyd gathered about his circumstances, Mr C earned £45,000 a year 
gross. At the time of the lending he already had a loan balance of around £7,000, and other 
revolving credit for around £20,000. So, by granting this credit card, Tesco increased Mr Cs 
overall unsecured debt to around £30,000  which is two thirds of his gross yearly income.
In the circumstances, I think Tesco carried out proportionate checks, but then didnt make a 
fair lending decision. I dont think Mr C could have sustainably afforded to repay the full 
credit limit he was given considering his existing commitments combined with his salary. 
Because of this, I dont think Tesco have acted fairly.
Putting things right
Tesco should:
Rework Mr Cs credit card to remove any interest and charges
If this leaves an outstanding balance, then Tesco should work with Mr C to agree an 
appropriate repayment plan. Once the balance has been repaid, then any adverse 
information should be removed.
If this means no balance is now due, then anything extra should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to Mr C plus 8% simple interest* on the overpayments 
from the date they were made to the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after the adjustments have been made, then Tesco should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Tesco must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he 
asks them for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank to take the actions set out in the Putting things right 
section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman