DRN-2968896
The complaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Seat Financial 
Services, wont pay him the compensation that hes claimed for issues arising from the early 
settlement of a hire agreement for a car and charges for damage to the car.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr A under a hire agreement with Seat Financial Services that he 
signed in May 2018. He agreed to pay an initial rental of £1,633.86 and then 35 monthly 
rentals of £258.49. He settled the agreement early in January 2021 but the rental payment 
due at the end of that month was collected from him. Seat Financial Services also charged 
him £137.40 for damage to the car. 
Seat Financial Services refunded the January 2021 rental payment to Mr A but he 
complained to it that it shouldnt have been collected from him and about the damage 
charges. Seat Financial Services agreed to waive the damage charges but the payment was 
collected from his account. He contacted Seat Financial Services and it agreed to refund the 
payment to him and it paid him £75 as a goodwill gesture for the issues hed experienced. 
Mr A then received an arrears letter for the damage charges. He then sent an invoice for 
£270 to Seat Financial Services for his time in dealing with these issues and complained to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that Seat 
Financial Services had confirmed that the damage charges had been removed from his 
account. She said that it had made some errors with regard to the damage charges but she 
thought that £75 compensation was a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr As complaint.
Mr A has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that hes 
been aggressively pursued by Seat Financial Services for the damage charges so has had 
to put in place anti-theft measures to prevent it from taking the £137.40 from his account. 
Hes explained why he considers that Seat Financial Services shouldnt have collected the 
January 2021 payment from him and why it should be required to pay him £270 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Seat Financial Services says that it was contacted by a dealer about an early 
settlement of Mr As hire agreement two days before the January 2021 rental 
payment was due to be collected from him;
it says that Mr A contacted it on the same day to ask if it could stop the January 2021 
monthly rental as the dealer was paying the early settlement figure but it advised him 
that it was too late for it to be stopped but that, when the early settlement was 
received, it would refund the rental payment;
it says that Mr A sent it an e-mail the next day saying that the dealer had taken over 
the car four days earlier and that hed been told that the January 2021 rental would 
be refunded to him;
the January 2021 rental payment has been refunded to Mr A and Im not persuaded 
that theres enough evidence to show that Seat Financial Services acted incorrectly 
when collecting that payment from him  it told him that the request to stop the 
payment was too late and that the payment would be collected but refunded if the 
early settlement was received  and that is what happened;
Seat Financial Services sent an invoice for the damage charges to Mr A in March 
2021 and he complained about the charges later that month  it agreed to waive the 
charges but a payment of £137.40 was collected from Mr A;
it agreed to refund that payment to Mr A (and I understand that it has done so);
Seat Financial Services has accepted that its made errors in dealing with the 
damage charges and it has apologised to Mr A for those errors  its also paid him 
£75 compensation but he then received an arrears notice about the £137.40;
its clear that those errors have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr A  and I 
sympathise with him for that  but I consider that the £75 compensation that its paid 
to him is fair and reasonable compensation for that distress and inconvenience; and 
Im not persuaded that a higher amount of compensation is justified in these 
circumstances and I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Seat Financial Services to pay to Mr A the additional £270 that hes claimed 
or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman