DRN-2864417
The complaint
Mr B complains that Portafina Investment Management Limited (Portafina) gave him 
unsuitable advice to transfer his occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension. 
Mr B says he will be worse off in retirement as a result of the unsuitable advice.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and as such I have only
summarised them below.
In 2018 Mr B approached Portafina to discuss transferring deferred benefits he held in an 
OPS to release tax-free cash to pay for home improvements. 
At the time Mr B was 55 years old. He had no spouse and lived with his elderly mother who 
owned the house. 
Portafina contacted Mr Bs OPS to find out what benefits he held with them, and the cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of his benefits should he wish to transfer.
Mr Bs OPS confirmed it had a guaranteed income of £5,142 per year at the normal 
retirement age of 65. This could be reduced to £3,729 a year if Mr B wanted to take a tax-
free cash sum of £24,861. The CETV of the benefits was £88,580, meaning if Mr B was to 
transfer, he could release £22,145 in tax-free cash. 
Portafina first sent Mr B a letter explaining that they didnt recommend he transfer his 
benefits, as hed be losing a guaranteed income. But they gave him the option of continuing 
the transfer process as an insistent client. Mr B agree to continue on an insistent client 
basis by completing the enclosed forms and returning them to Portafina.
Over the following weeks Portafina conducted a fact find phone call and sent further letters, 
including a suitability report to Mr B. The suitability report recorded that Mr B wanted to make 
some home improvements and create an emergency fund with the tax-free cash. The report 
again concluded that the transfer itself wasnt recommended, but Portafina went on to 
recommend a new pension provider and funds that Mr B could invest in as an insistent 
client. 
Mr B accepted Portafinas recommended pension provider and so they processed the 
transfer request. The pension transfer was completed in late 2018 and the tax-free cash was 
released to Mr B.
In 2020 Mr B complained to Portafina via a professional representative. In summary, he 
didnt think Portafina should have treated him as an insistent client, and shouldnt have 
facilitated the transfer of his OPS benefits which had now left him in a worse off position. 
In their response Portafina said theyd clearly explained the risks to Mr B of transferring and 
had advised against it. They said theyd fairly treated Mr B as an insistent client and hed 
chosen to transfer his benefits, despite the risks. 
Mr B was unhappy with Portafinas response and so brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator first said she didnt think Portafina had properly followed the insistent client 
process and so she wasnt convinced Mr B was truly an insistent client. However, Portafina 
then supplied a recording of a call they had with Mr B. The investigator then said the content 
of the call recording had satisfied her that Mr B knew the risks of transferring and continued 
anyway. So, she didnt think Portafina had been wrong to treat him as an insistent client. 
Mr B disagreed. In summary he said Portafina hadnt done enough to explain the benefits he 
would be losing by transferring and the risks of proceeding as an insistent client. He also felt 
the process Portafina used was flawed as he was treated as an insistent client before a 
suitability report was created and final advice given. 
As Mr B disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B, via his representative, provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which 
Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr B and Portafina, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
Did Portafina follow the correct process for an insistent client? 
Portafina have said they recommended against the transfer and that it treated Mr B as an 
insistent client because Mr B wanted to transfer regardless of their advice to remain in his 
OPS. Portafina have said they followed the guidance on insistent clients set out by the 
regulator. 
Ive considered Portafinas actions and communications, particularly in respect of the 
regulators position on insistent clients at the time, to see if I think Portafina acted fairly. Ive 
also considered more generally the rules and principles Portafina needed to follow including 
that they had to act fairly and in Mr Bs best interests.  
The regulator had defined an insistent client as: 
 A client who has received a personal recommendation from the business.
 Who wants to enter into a transaction that is different from that recommended by 
the business; and.
 Who wants the business to facilitate that transaction.
Following an initial fact-finding call, Portafina sent Mr B a letter on 23 July 2018. The letter 
said;
 Since our conversation we have completed our initial phase of research and analysis and 
we strongly recommend that you do not transfer your Merck pension and instead leave it 
where it is because of the guarantees/benefits that you will be giving upThe letter immediately went on to explain to Mr B that, although Portafinas recommendation 
was to not transfer it was absolutely your decision. Everyones circumstances are different 
and if you decide you still want to transfer your Merck pension to a new scheme to release 
tax-free cash then this is something we can help you with. The letter then went on to give a 
very brief overview of the income Mr B could receive from his ceding scheme and the 
amount of transfer value and tax-free cash he could receive by transferring.
Included in the letter was an options form. This first box gave the option of disregarding 
Portafinas recommendation and continuing as an insistent client. The second option was to 
accept the recommendation and leave the pension where it was. 
Lastly there was an insistent client form which asked Mr B to tick boxes to confirm he was 
aware of some of the risks of transferring. It pointed out that hed lose a guaranteed income 
and noted the critical yield required to match his OPS benefits if he were to transfer. 
I dont think the wording and emphasis of the letter and forms  including that the first option 
given to Mr B was to ignore Portafinas recommendation  was fair to Mr B or in his best 
interest. I say that because I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interest to go against 
Portafinas recommendation. But the documents he was sent, made it very easy for him to 
do so. 
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the 
transfer was not in Mr Bs best interests. But the information on this form was limited to the 
loss of guarantees and critical yield required to match the benefits. Although Portafina later 
sent a more detailed suitability report, Mr B had little information to go off to decide if being 
an insistent client was truly in his best interests at that point. The difference between the 
critical yields and growth rates werent explained. And it wasnt demonstrated what income in 
retirement Mr B was likely to achieve by transferring. Other risks involved in the transfer - for 
example the risk of funds running out in drawdown  werent considered either. 
Portafina say that their insistent client process follows the FCAs advice in Factsheet 35, 
especially as Mr B put in his own words why he wanted to proceed with the transfer. The 
insistent client form left space for Mr B to say why he wished to go against their 
recommendation. But the FCA had said client disclaimers should be clear what the advice is, 
the risks of the clients chosen actions and that the action is against the recommendation 
being made. But I dont think Mr Bs response of I have various projects to fund from the 
lump sum adequately demonstrates that Mr B knew and understood the risks involved in the 
transfer and the benefits hed be losing by doing so. So, I dont think that document alone 
sufficiently showed Mr B was an insistent client. 
Portafina later went on to issue a suitability report which gave a more comprehensive review 
of Mr Bs circumstances and why the transfer hadnt been recommended. But as Ive said, 
this information would have been more helpful to Mr B before he made the decision to act as 
an insistent client. Following the suitability report Mr B once again confirmed by signing an 
enclosed declaration, that he wished to proceed as an insistent client. 
Overall, I dont think Portafinas insistent client process in this case was fair. Mr B was asked 
if he wanted to proceed as such before being given the full information he needed in order to 
make an informed decision. And I think Portafina put too much prominence on the option of 
going against their advice, which wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. However, my role isnt to 
punish a business when something goes wrong. I must decide if its likely, had Portafinas 
insistent client process been better, Mr B would have insisted on transferring his pension 
anyway.
Would Mr B have insisted anyway?In his calls with Portafina, its clear Mr B didnt view this pension as his main source of 
income in retirement. He described it as being nice to have in addition to his state pension 
but said it wasnt £10,000 to £12,000 a year. If it was, hed maybe consider a different route. 
And he seemed to have a strong opinion that the money was worth more to him at the time, 
rather than at age 65.
It was Mr B who contacted Portafina with a view to releasing money from his pension. 
Following the options letter Mr B called Portafina. At the start of the call he quoted 
Portafinas letter which said we strongly recommend you do not transfer. But Mr B went on 
to say Well Ive decided to transfer. And when he was put through to an adviser, the first 
thing he asked was what do I need to do to carry on this thing?. So, I think Mr B had made 
up his mind and was willing to take extra steps to enact the transfer. 
During the call Portafina said that they needed to speak to Mr B because he was giving up 
guaranteed benefits. Mr B commented that he was a naughty boy for going ahead with the 
transfer. So, Mr B knew he was giving up something that was guaranteed and beneficial and 
that proceeding potentially wasnt in his best interests. 
Mr B explained concerns around his health and that he thought his life expectancy would be 
lower than average. He didnt have a spouse who would benefit from his OPS and wanted to 
access his pension while he was of an age to enjoy it. All these things seem to have added 
to Mr Bs desire to transfer his OPS. 
Mr B also had clear plans for the tax-free cash he was able to withdraw by transferring his 
pension. His home, where he lived with his elderly mother, had been damaged by fire. He 
wanted to repair the damage to an attic room so that he could move into it. Hed then have a 
room available for live-in care should his mother require it, or he could rent it out to generate 
income in retirement. But Mr B said he needed to do the work now while he was fit enough 
to do it, and the friends he wanted to use to help were also fit enough. It seems to me that 
Mr B had clearly thought about the benefits to him, of transferring at that point.
In the calls Mr B confirmed he had no savings or other means to finance the work he wanted 
to do. His mother owned the house they lived in and so he couldnt re-mortgage and he 
didnt want her to either. Im satisfied from the calls that these were Mr Bs own words. He 
was clearly driven to transferring his pension to access the tax-free cash.
There were a couple of points in the call when Portafina should have corrected Mr B, for 
example when he said someone might pinch his OPS. But even if Portafina had done so, 
Im not persuaded it would have altered Mr Bs opinion about what he wanted to do. 
Overall, even though I think Portafinas insistent client process could have been fairer, I dont 
think that would have changed the outcome in Mr Bs particular case. I say that because on 
balance, I think even if Portafina had made their insistent client process fairer, Mr B would 
have pursued the transfer and insisted on Portafina transferring his pension.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman