DRN-2796809
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money that he lost when he fell victim to 
a scam. 
What happened
Mr W decided to buy a motorbike. He found one he liked on a well-known selling platform. 
He spoke with the seller on several occasions about the bike. The seller had hundreds of 
good feedback ratings with no negative feedback. Mr W tells us he also checked other 
websites and saw the same bike and so believed the sale to be genuine. And he checked 
the transport company was based in Scotland  the same area the motorbike was being sold 
from (and why he couldnt see it).
On 2 February 2015, Mr W sent £6,250 by faster payment to the seller. On 11 February 
2015, Mr W let the bank know he thought he had been scammed. He hadnt received the 
bike and it appears the seller might have been coerced, or under duress, to carry out the 
scam. Lloyds contacted the bank that received the funds within 24 hours of the scam being 
reported, but no funds remained to return to Mr W. 
Mr W complained about the matter in 2020. Lloyds didnt think it had done anything wrong in 
relation to the payment itself. But did offer a total of £72 to cover call costs and for a service 
failing. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. She wasnt persuaded the 
payment was unusual such that Lloyds ought to have identified that Mr W might be the victim 
of scam and so take further steps. And she was satisfied that Lloyds had attempted to 
recover the lost funds. 
Mr W has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He believes the bank ought 
to have done more to prevent the payment being made and he believes the payment was 
unusual at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Mr W and Lloyds that although I have only summarised 
the evidence and arguments made, I have read and considered everything provided. 
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an unauthorised payment rests with the payer even they were duped into 
giving that authorisation or it was obtained by third-party fraud.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act to act on information which ought 
reasonably to allow a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable 
for the losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
The first question I therefore need to consider is whether Lloyds breached that duty when 
executing Mr Ws payment request? 
There is no dispute that Mr W was duped into authorising a payment for a motorbike of 
£6,250. The payment was made on 2 February 2015 and was for what Mr W believed was a 
legitimate sale. I understand it was made online using his usual security credentials. So, I 
conclude that this was an authorised payment  for which Mr W is liable, unless there is 
evidence that the bank could and should reasonably have done more to protect him, which 
issue I now turn to. 
£6,250 is not an insubstantial sum and so I have considered whether this ought to have 
triggered the banks alert systems such that it ought to have questioned whether Mr W was a 
victim of a scam and intervened. I understand Mr W made other faster payments and to new 
payees. And I can see at least one transfer out of the account was for £15,000 (albeit it 
appears to another account in Mr Ws name) prior to the transaction in question.  And the 
payment of £6,250 still left a substantial sum (over £20,000) in the account. I accept this 
payment is higher than other general spend on the account. But when substantial sums are 
held, it isnt unusual for a one-off higher payment to be made. Im not persuaded that the 
payment was so unusual or uncharacteristic that it ought to have triggered an alert or given 
the bank grounds for suspecting fraud. 
But even if I thought it should have intervened, which I dont, its hard to see how Mr W 
would be in a different position. Upon making enquiries, had the bank understood the 
payment was being made for a vehicle advertised on an online platform, Lloyds would likely 
have given a scam warning and told Mr W to carry out checks before the payment was 
made. But Mr W had already carried out some research that indicated to him that the sale 
was genuine  checked the feedback ratings, the delivery company etc. And if hed been told 
to check with the DVLA, something he wasnt aware he could do, its likely he would have 
found it was a genuine motorbike  fraudsters often use the credentials of a genuine vehicle 
when carrying out such scams.  It might have also told him to make his payment via the 
platform rather than outside of it; but as Mr W has submitted the seller was coerced and 
under duress to carry out the scam, its unlikely the seller would have refused that, all of 
which would have reassured Mr W he was dealing with a genuine seller. 
It follows that I find no persuasive evidence that Lloyds breached its duty to Mr W or that it 
shouldnt have executed without undue delay the payment request he had made and 
authorised. There is a reasonable balance to be struck for the benefit of all account holders 
and/or commercial efficiency  and the bank did also have duty to execute a properly-
authorised payment request within a reasonable period. 
I turn now to whether Lloyds took reasonable steps to try and recover Mr Ws funds once it 
knew of the scam. And the information provided shows it raised the matter with the receiving 
bank the day after it was notified of the scam. This is well within the time frames expected for 
making such requests. And I understand no funds remained to be returned. In our 
experience, money obtained as a result of a scam is withdrawn within minutes or hours of it 
being sent, so was likely withdrawn from the recipients account before Mr W even realised 
hed been scammed. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint as Lloyds Bank PLC has already made a 
fair offer of £72 to cover call costs and a customer service failing. I require it to pay that to Mr 
W if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman