DRN-4216603
The complaint
Miss A complains Santander UK Plc hasnt refunded two £600 cash withdrawals she says 
are a mystery to her.
What happened
Miss A is an elderly woman who has an account with Santander. She has problems with her 
eyes and has told us she had a bad fall around the time of these withdrawals and that she 
had to move house. In other words, she was going through a bad patch.
In December 2020 and April 2021 two cash withdrawals were made from Miss As account. 
Miss A says she didnt notice these withdrawals until she checked her statements in 2022. 
She says that she never withdraws more than £250  the withdrawals were for £600  so 
was shocked when she saw them. Miss A contacted Santander to dispute the withdrawals.
Santander said that the withdrawals had both happened more than 13 months ago meaning 
that it wasnt obliged to refund them  even if they werent her  as she hadnt reported them 
soon enough. Miss A was unhappy with Santanders response, so it investigated further. 
Having done so, Santander said that it wasnt going to refund the transactions as they had 
been authorised in branch using her genuine card and PIN. Miss A complained to us saying 
that Santander should be able to go back and look into these transactions, and that it hadnt 
investigated properly. Miss A was particularly unhappy that Santander had tried to blame her 
saying that shed used her card in a shop earlier on that day. Miss A said that this was a 
completely separate transaction, so it wasnt relevant.
One of our investigators looked into Miss As complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Miss A asked for a decision from an ombudsman saying that it was very suspicious that both 
withdrawals were for the same large amount. So, her complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this particular case, Santander was entitled to say it was under no obligation to refund 
these two transactions because theyd both happened more than 13 months earlier. Thats 
because of Article 74 of the Payment Services Regulations and Santanders own terms and 
conditions too. I can, however, see that Santander did investigate these withdrawals in any 
event and, based on the information it had, concluded that they were likely to have been 
authorised by Miss A. Thats because Santander could see the withdrawals had been made 
with Miss As genuine card and PIN, it could see Miss A had used her card for other genuine 
transactions around the time and there was no obvious point of compromise.
I can understand why Miss A didnt check her statements at the time these withdrawals 
happened and, based on the statements Ive seen, I agree that these withdrawals are larger 
than the ones she typically makes. That doesnt mean I think Santander should have 
stopped them at the time  they were not sufficiently unusual or large enough to justify that. 
And they were also carried out using Miss As genuine card and PIN in a branch. Banks do, 
however, rely on customers reporting disputed transactions as soon as possible, in part so 
that evidence that can help establish whether theyre genuine or not will still be available. I 
can, therefore, understand why Santanders initial reaction was that it wasnt obliged to 
refund these transactions  even if they were unauthorised  given that they were reported 
more than 13 months after they occurred.
To Santanders credit, it did then carry out an investigation and, having done so, concluded 
that it was more than likely that these transactions had been authorised by Miss A. I can see 
the ways in which Santander went about investigating upset Miss A  shes said its 
irrelevant that she used her card in a shop the same day as the first disputed withdrawal as 
that was a completely different transaction. I can understand the logic of what Miss A is 
saying, but its normal for banks to look at whats happened with the card around the time of 
a disputed transaction as this helps establish what might or might not have happened. 
In short, I cant say in this case that Santander should do more. So, its not a complaint I can 
uphold.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint and not going to ask Santander UK 
Plc to do more than it already has.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman