DRN-4199000
The complaint
Mr H has complained about how Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (Fortegra) dealt 
with a claim under a kitchen appliance warranty.
What happened
Mr H made a claim for a cooker hood under a warranty he had taken out with Fortegra. 
Fortegra agreed to replace the hood but said Mr H needed to pay the rest of the premiums 
for the year before it would settle the claim, as he paid in monthly instalments.
Mr H complained to Fortegra because he said the policy terms didnt say he would need to 
pay the remainder of the premiums for the year if he made a claim. When Fortegra replied, it 
said Mr H would need to pay the money for the claim to be settled.
When Mr H complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the 
policy terms didnt say the rest of the premiums were payable. So, she said it wasnt 
reasonable for Fortegra to require them to be paid. The policy wording also didnt say the 
policy needed to end after a claim was made. She said Fortegra either needed to put the 
policy and direct debit back in place or to cancel it and refund any premiums Mr H paid 
during the period of his complaint.
Following our investigator issuing her findings, Fortegra provided some documents related to 
the claim, but didnt say whether it accepted what the investigator said. So, the complaint 
was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the policy terms and conditions. These didnt say that the full premium would be 
payable if a claim was made. So, I dont think it was fair that Fortegra told Mr H he needed to 
pay this for it to replace the cooker hood. 
Its my understanding Mr H might now have paid the full premium. Im aware that if he did so, 
it was because he needed the hood to be replaced, and it wasnt because he agreed with 
Fortegras position on paying the full premium.
I wrote to both Fortegra and Mr H to tell them I intended to uphold the complaint but that, 
due to the expiry date of the policy, I intended to require Fortegra to take different action to 
our investigator to resolve the complaint. I said both parties had 14 days in which to provide 
any comments. Neither Fortegra or Mr H replied.
Having thought about this complaint, I uphold it because the policy didnt say the remainder 
of the premium was payable if a claim was made. Fortegras requirement for Mr H to pay the 
premium in full also suggests that the policy ceased at the point he successfully made his 
claim. As a result, I require Fortegra to refund any premium Mr H paid after he made the 
claim to get his claim settled and to refund any direct debit payments Mr H paid for the policy 
after he made his complaint. There doesnt now seem to be an option to reinstate the policy 
for the remainder of the period, as the policy has now expired.
Im aware Mr H was also concerned by damage to his ceiling while his complaint was 
ongoing. However, I dont require Fortegra to deal with this because Mr H could have paid 
the premium to allow the claim to progress while he also complained about Fortegra telling 
him he needed to pay it.
Putting things right
Fortegra should refund any premiums Mr H paid in relation to this policy after he made his 
complaint. That includes any payment Mr H made after he raised the claim in order to get 
the claim settled and any policy premiums paid by direct debit.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd to refund to Mr H:
any premium he paid after he made the claim in order to get his claim settled.
any policy premiums he paid by direct debit from the point at which he made his 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman