DRN-3130619
The complaint
Ms F and the estate of Mr C complain about delays by National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) in processing a settlement, as well as the poor customer service received. 
Ms F and the estate of Mr C are represented in this complaint. For ease I will refer to all 
actions and comments by them as being those of Ms F. 
What happened
The late Mr C held premium bonds with NS&I. Ms F is the sole beneficiary to the estate and 
death claim forms were sent to NS&I at the end of May 2020. Ms F says she was advised 
there was a four-week turnaround to process this. 
However, she says that she didnt hear further from NS&I despite several hours spent on the 
phone chasing an update. A complaint was sent to NS&I in July 2020. In their response they 
said that there were delays due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and requested further 
documentation. 
Further correspondence was sent to NS&I and another complaint was raised. The proceeds 
from the bonds were eventually paid on 19 August 2020, nearly three months after the claim 
was first issued. NS&I responded to the second complaint raised, apologising for the delays 
and stating that the Covid-19 pandemic was the reason. 
Ms F remained unhappy and so the complaint was brought to our service for an independent 
review. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think NS&I had done enough, despite the 
issues that the pandemic had brought. He suggested that NS&I compensate Ms F with £100 
for the delay and not responding to correspondence. 
NS&I agreed with the outcome but Ms F rejected this. She said that the impact caused and 
time spent trying to sort it out had been significant and that £100 didnt fairly compensate her 
for this. As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to reach a 
decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
NS&I has acknowledged that nearly three months was too long for this claim to be 
processed and the payment made. They have apologised but explained that delays had built 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Whilst I appreciate that was the case and that it was clearly a contributing and mitigating 
factor, I am not satisfied that it was the sole reason for the delay. NS&I did communicate 
with Ms F in writing on at least two occasions during this time. They also appear to have 
mistaken Ms Fs circumstances at one point and the type of attorney that was in place. 
Although I recognise that the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has caused challenges for 
businesses as they tried to continue to offer their services, in this case I think that despite 
the pressures caused by the pandemic, this request could have been handled better and the 
payment issued sooner. 
I also find that NS&I could have managed expectations better at the beginning and 
throughout the process, that delays were occurring and that claims following death were 
taking longer than usually expected. I havent seen anything to suggest this was 
communicated to Ms F despite a few opportunities to do so. I can also see that at least one 
letter sent to NS&I wasnt responded to and I am sure that will have been very frustrating for 
Ms F. 
NS&I have agreed to pay £100 compensation for the above. I think that is fair, reasonable 
and proportionate to the impact of delays on Ms F here caused by non-Covid factors. 
Putting things right
National Savings and Investments should pay £100 compensation for the delays caused and 
poor level of customer service experienced.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Savings and Investments should 
put things right for Ms F and the estate of Mr C as set out under the heading Putting things 
right above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and the 
estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman