DRN-2779587
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about a mortgage they hold with Pepper (UK) Limited. They are 
unhappy that it wouldnt allow a third party to pay almost £64,000 off the mortgage balance, 
thereby approximately halving it. They dont think Pepper had a good reason for refusing to 
accept the payment.
What happened
In late November 2019 Mr M contacted Pepper to enquire about his and Mrs Ms mortgage 
and making a large lump sum payment. Mr M didnt mention the payment would be being 
made by a third party. As such, Pepper assumed the payment would be being made by 
Mr and Mrs M, so it provided banking details to allow this to be done. A few days later the 
third party made a payment to Pepper. Pepper rejected the payment as it doesnt accept 
payments from third parties not named on the mortgage account. Mr and Mrs M complained.
Pepper responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It explained that it had a policy in 
place that meant it didnt accept payments from third parties. The policy was in place to 
prevent fraud and to protect mortgagors from third parties claiming an interest in a property 
having made a payment to the mortgage. It said when Mr M made enquiries about paying off 
some capital from the mortgage, he hadnt mentioned the money would be coming from 
someone else. As such, it hadnt been able to make Mr and Mrs M aware of its policy in 
advance of the payment being made.
When referring their complaint to this service, Mr and Mrs M said that they felt theyd been 
penalised because theyd had to make interest payments on the part of the mortgage 
balance that should have been paid off. In addition, the third party had been charged 
processing and transmission fees for the money transfer that had failed. Mr and Mrs M have 
said they can find no mention in the terms and conditions that third parties cant make 
payments to their mortgage and so they think Pepper is in breach of the mortgage terms. 
Mr and Mrs M also provided evidence the third party had been allowed to make a £1,500 
payment to the mortgage in 2007; before the transferred to Pepper. They believe the 
previous lender accepting a payment in 2007 sets a precedent for further payments to be 
allowed. 
In settlement of the complaint, Mr and Mrs M asked that the additional interest and the 
charges the third party had paid be refunded. They also asked that this service instruct 
Pepper to accept the payment the third party wanted to make to the mortgage. 
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, but he didnt recommend it 
be upheld. He didnt think Pepper had acted unreasonably when it declined the third-party 
payment. He confirmed the reason for the payment being declined was a policy of Peppers, 
rather than part of the mortgage terms and conditions, and that lenders were able to set 
such policies. The investigator confirmed that the previous lender allowing a payment from a 
third party in 2007 didnt set a precedent. Our investigator was also satisfied that Mr M 
hadnt mentioned the payment would be made by a third party when he enquired before it 
happened, and so Pepper wasnt able to explain its policy before the transfer was made. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators view. They said they didnt consider Peppers 
internal practices were relevant and shouldnt have impacted the transfer to their mortgage  
the account should be run in line with the mortgage terms and conditions only. Those terms 
and conditions were agreed with the previous lender when the mortgage was taken out.  In 
addition, they said theyd been told the terms and conditions of their mortgage wouldnt be 
changed when Pepper took over the account. Mr and Mrs M were also adamant that a 
precedent had been set when the previous lender had accepted a payment from the third 
party in 2007.
Our investigator confirmed the mortgage terms and conditions had remained unchanged 
when Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was transferred to Pepper. However, lenders had internal 
policies that ran alongside terms and conditions and one of Peppers was that it didnt accept 
payments from third parties. As such he remained satisfied that Pepper hadnt acted 
unreasonably or unfairly when declining the payment in question. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided an ombudsman should review the 
complaint. Prior to the complaint being passed to me, the third party added some comments 
about his view of the matter. He said he was of the opinion that the investigators view 
lacked balance, objectivity and fairness  that natural justice should have led to a different 
outcome.  The third party went on to say that he was sure Pepper would have accepted a 
payment from him if Mr and Mrs Ms account was in financial difficulties and in light of that, 
he thinks Pepper wants to have jam on each side of their bread.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly explain that the terms and conditions of a mortgage set out the basic operating 
mechanisms and obligations associated with a mortgage. The primary obligation detailed in 
the terms and conditions is that the borrower agrees to repay the mortgage debt with interest 
at or before the end of the mortgage term. Mr and Mrs M have pointed out that the terms and 
conditions dont say that a third party cant make payments to the mortgage. That is the 
case, but given the terms and conditions set out the obligations of the parties to the 
mortgage contract  Mr and Mrs M and (now) Pepper  I wouldnt expect any discussion 
about third parties to be contained in it. The fact that it doesnt say something cant be done 
by someone not connected with the contract, doesnt meant that it can be done.
All lenders will have policies that run alongside the basic operating terms and conditions of 
its mortgages. Some will relate to non-contractual changes (concessions) to how the 
mortgage will be run, such as granting payment holidays or how it will deal with a customer 
in financial difficulties. Others are more basic and cover things like accepting payments from 
third parties. Lenders are allowed to take a position on such matters and those positions can 
be changed over time based on changes to, and their understanding of, risk, regulation and 
the law. It is very normal for lenders not to allow third party payments to be accepted; often 
because of concerns about money laundering. 
Pepper has explained why it doesnt allow such payments to be made and its reasons for 
having the policy it does. A lender is expected to provide some protection to its customers 
and it would appear that obligation is what is behind Peppers policy on this matter. In the 
circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Pepper to have rejected the third party 
payment. That is not to say that Mr and Mrs M would be unable to reduce their mortgage as 
the third party wanted to, but it would involve the money being given to them in the first 
instance. I accept the payment being rejected may have come as something of an unpleasant surprise 
to Mr and Mrs M. However, it doesnt appear that Pepper was aware that the payment was 
going to be made by a third party and so it had no reason to make Mr M aware of its policy 
for such payments before the transfer was attempted. 
I note the third party has said that he believes if there were financial difficulties in play, 
Pepper would have accepted a payment from him. A lender might sometimes step away 
from its normal policies when a consumer is in financial difficulties, as it is required by the 
regulator to do what it can to help in such situations. However, the payment the third party 
attempted to make was not made to cover one or two mortgage payments because 
Mr and Mrs M were in financial difficulties and had been unable to pay their mortgage. This 
was a payment of a significant capital sum as a gift to them. As such, it wasnt unreasonable 
for Pepper to apply its normal policy. In addition, I am also satisfied that the previous lender 
accepting a payment in 2007 from a third party doesnt set a precedent for further payments 
to be made in this way. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that Pepper did anything wrong in relation to the attempted 
third-party payment to Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage account. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 July 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman