DRN-2450055
The complaint
Mr K is complaining Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited mis-sold him a car 
insurance policy which he says has left him uninsured for losses arising from a car accident.
Mr K has been represented by a representative in this matter, but for ease of reference, I 
shall refer to any statements the representative made as being made by Mr K.
What happened
Mr K took out a car insurance policy through Somerset Bridge  a broker. When he first took 
it out, he said he was unemployed. In November 2018, Mr K contacted Somerset Bridge to 
say he was now working and to give his new working details. Somerset Bridge said it would 
update his records and asked if anything else had change. Mr K confirmed it hadnt. 
Somerset Bridge said the policy was set up as fully comprehensive and he was using the car 
for social, domestic and pleasure purposes (SDP). Mr K confirmed that was the case. The 
policy renewed again in November 2019 with no changes.
In January 2020, Mr K complained to Somerset Bridge that it had mis-sold the policy to him. 
Hed been involved in an accident with a third party, but his insurer had declined the claim 
because he wasnt covered for commuting. He said hed told Somerset Bridge hed changed 
his profession, so it should have known hed need the car to drive to and from work. So he 
held Somerset Bridge responsible for him being uninsured.
Somerset Bridge didnt uphold his complaint. It said its call handler clarified whether, apart 
from the change in occupation, all the information was correct and Mr K said it was. It said 
Mr K hadnt said he needed to use the car for commuting, so it didnt think it had acted 
unfairly.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2020 not uphold this complaint. And I said the 
following:
I should first explain Im only looking at the actions of Somerset Bridge  as the insurance 
broker  in this complaint. Mr K has also raised a complaint about the insurers decision to 
decline the claim and thats being considered in a separate complaint. 
As I said, Somerset Bridge was acting as a broker in this matter. So it was responsible for 
arranging the insurance policy. The policy was due for renewal so it sent out the insurance 
documents for Mr K to review and it asked him to let it know if anything had changed. 
Following this Mr K called to say he was no longer unemployed and updated his employment 
status. But he thinks the call handler should have asked him at that point if he wanted to add 
commuting cover. 
Ive listened to the telephone call Mr K had with Somerset Bridge. After Mr K advised 
Somerset Bridge of his change in employment status, the call handler confirmed what level 
of cover he had  i.e. he had a fully comprehensive insurance policy and was covered for 
SDP purposes. Mr K confirmed he was happy with this level of cover. I dont think the call 
handler needed to do anything in addition to this.
I appreciate Mr K says he didnt understand what SDP cover meant, but Im satisfied 
Somerset Bridge did set out what level of cover he had. And it was Mr Ks responsibility to 
ensure he was adequately insured. So I dont think Somerset Bridge is responsible for the 
situation Mr K has found himself in.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision saying they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything further to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached previously. So I dont uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman