DRN-2771316
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy. The policy started in April 2001 and 
was designed to cover Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage payments. The policy covered Mrs M only, 
and only for unemployment.
Santander originally said that the PPI was sold as a separate stand-alone policy. This was 
because it believed at that time Mr and Mrs M had their mortgage with a different lender. But 
now records have been found of a Santander mortgage starting around the same time as the 
PPI in April 2001.
Our adjudicator had said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. Because further 
information had since come in, I thought it was fairest to make clear my current view of the 
case and give everyone a further chance to send me comments and evidence. So I wrote a 
provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Overall, I have to 
decide what is more likely than not to have happened.
My current view is that I shouldnt uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have said they didnt know about the PPI and didnt need it.
In looking at this, Im conscious that this all happened about 20 years ago, and it 
wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember the details of something that long 
ago. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present 
reasonable evidence that this probably did happen. And I dont currently have such 
evidence. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something 
wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago.
But, also, the evidence that has survived does suggest that Mr and Mrs M were likely 
to have been aware of the PPI  and I think they would have objected at the time, if 
theyd discovered they had a policy they hadnt agreed to. Evidence from the 
insurers records is that Mrs M phoned in July 2001 to discuss the cost of extending 
the PPI to include accident and sickness cover, and also to cover Mr M as well. The 
insurers records also say that it sent Mr and Mrs M a welcome letter in April 2001. 
Santander has sent us a copy of that letter.
Also the PPI only gave unemployment cover, and didnt include the usual accident 
and sickness cover. So this does suggest there was some kind of discussion about 
the PPI between Santander and Mr and Mrs M about what they needed.
So my current view it that its likely Mr and Mrs M were aware of the PPI and agreed 
to it, even if they cant now remember it so many years later.
Ive also looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. But I dont currently think they apply to this case. I will explain 
why.
Santander recommended the PPI, and this means it had a higher standard to reach 
during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
Ms particular circumstances. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on 
what Ive seen of their situation at the time.
Mr and Mrs M have said they had savings worth about 12 months of their income, 
and so didnt need the PPI. But, even if that is right, this wouldnt mean a 
recommendation would have been unsuitable. Being unable to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties, and many people would want to know they could cover 
their mortgage even if they found themselves unemployed for more than a year. And, 
if Mrs M lost her job, the PPI would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to 
any redundancy pay; so it would have put off the time when they would need to fall 
back on their savings to cover their mortgage and other living expenses. This all 
would have put Mr and Mrs M in a more secure position, longer term. And Ive not 
been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when it was taken out.
Mr M was self-employed, and Mr and Mrs M have suggested this made the PPI 
unsuitable. But, because Mr M wasnt anyway covered by the PPI, this wouldnt 
make a difference to whether the PPI was suitable.
Mrs M has said she had a medical condition which would have made it difficult for her 
to claim; and also that she had very good employer sickness benefit entitlements. But 
these factors would only have been relevant if sickness cover had been included in 
the PPI, but it wasnt.
So it looks as though the PPI was potentially useful, and a recommendation suitable. 
It would then have been up to Mr and Mrs M to decide whether they wanted the 
potential benefits in return for the monthly costs.
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs, benefits, and restrictions of 
the policy. But, as Ive said, it looks likely there was some discussion about the 
policy, and it is hard to imagine Mr and Mrs M would have taken the PPI without 
getting basic information. I dont see that there were significant limitations in the 
policy that would have put them off taking it. And the PPI was potentially useful to Mr 
and Mrs M. So, overall, it seems unlikely that fuller and clearer information about the 
costs would have affected whether they took the PPI.
My current view is that its unlikely this PPI policy was mis-sold.
I didnt receive any comments or further evidence by the time of the deadline I gave. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman