DRN-2263541
The complaint
Mr P complains that Allianz Insurance PLC (Allianz) unfairly declined his claim made under 
his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr P reported a leak in his roof to his brokers. At the time, he instructed a roofer to 
inspect the roof who concluded that the leak was caused by a neighbouring propertys 
gutter. A claim was raised to Allianz and due to the delay in resolving the claim, Mr P 
referred a complaint to this service. That complaint was upheld, and Mr P was awarded £500 
compensation. 
During the complaint process, this service recommended that a roof survey be carried out to 
determine what caused the leak to the roof  whether it was due to poor maintenance or 
whether the damage was caused due to an insured peril. Allianz carried out that survey and 
it concluded that the leak to the roof was due to water entering the building via a poorly fitted 
roof window. It also said that the repair that had taken place had also failed. On this basis, 
Allianz declined Mr Ps claim as the leak to the roof wasnt as a result of an insured peril, 
such as a storm. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied with the outcome of the report and he complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think that his complaint ought to be upheld. He said that Allianz didnt 
need to take any further action. It had been asked to provide an additional survey report 
which it did. The report concluded that the leak to the roof was caused by poor maintenance 
and this wasnt covered under the terms of the policy. So, there was nothing further that he 
could reasonably ask Allianz to do.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. He said that Allianz had relied upon a report that 
displayed no details about when it was carried out, by whom it was carried out and who had 
responsibility for it. He said that no surveyor had attended his property to inspect the roof 
and he questioned the credibility of the report. Mr P asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mr P, but I hope my findings go some way to explain why Ive reached 
this decision.
I have reviewed the information provided by Mr P, evidence from Allianz, as well as the 
surveyors report, roofers comments and photographs of Mr Ps roof. The main issue here is 
whether the leak that happened to the roof was as a result of an insured peril or poor 
maintenance. 
Mr P reported that the roof leaked when it rained. It was initially discovered in 2017 and 
again in 2018. The information that he provided to this service from his roofer was that the 
leak was caused due to a neighbouring propertys gutter. I have not seen an expert report 
from Mr P that confirms this to be the cause of the leak. 
The only expert report that I have been provided with is from the surveyor instructed by 
Allianz to examine the cause of the leak. This report concluded that the leak was caused by: 
water was entering the building around the v-lux window. This has been poorly fitted and 
a repair has been previously carried out which has not been successful. From this I think 
that the reason for the leak was due to poor maintenance rather than an insured peril, which 
is not covered by the terms of the policy. 
Mr P makes the point that the surveyors report provided by Allianz lacks detail and I accept 
this. It might have been helpful if it had more fully explained the reasons why the surveyor 
felt the damage wasnt covered and details about the date and time of the inspection. 
I also appreciate how strongly Mr P feels about the report. But its the only expert evidence I 
have to show me the most likely cause of damage. It was open to Mr P to obtain his own 
expert report, setting out a cause of damage and to provide this to Allianz or to us. It doesnt 
appear he has done so. This means that on the evidence to hand, I think the most likely 
cause of the damage was wear and tear.
It's open to Mr P to obtain such evidence at his expense and to pass it onto Allianz to review. 
If Mr P is unhappy with the outcome of any further review, we may potentially be able to look 
into that issue alone. But in this complaint, I am unable to find that Allianz declined Mr Ps 
claim unfairly as its expert has concluded that the damage caused was not as a result of an 
insured peril. 
Taking all of this into account, I think that Allianz fairly declined Mr Ps claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. I also think that Allianz complied with what it was asked to 
do in the previous complaint. I understand that this is likely to disappoint Mr P, but I cant 
fairly ask Allianz to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman