DRN-3881206
The complaint
Mr B complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited mishandled his claim on a 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in 2012. Mr B 
acquired it in 2017.
For the year from late November 2021, Mr B had the car insured on a comprehensive policy 
with Watford.
Unfortunately, in January 2022, Mr B reported to Watford that a third party had damaged the 
car.
In mid- February 2022, Watford authorised repair of the car. Watford or the repairer provided 
a courtesy car for Mr B. The repairer didnt finish work on the car until 6 July 2022.
Mr B had to give back the courtesy car. He took his car for an MOT test which it failed on 11 
July 2022. 
Mr B later complained to Watford about delay and the quality of repairs.
By a final response dated October 2022, Watford said that the repairer had agreed to 
reimburse the cost of a tyre as a goodwill gesture, upon evidence of the purchase being 
received by them. Otherwise, Watford turned down the complaint.
Mr B brought his complaint to us in late October 2022. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Watford couldve done more than it did in relation to the courtesy car. He didnt think that 
Watford was responsible for the delay. He didnt think that the car failed the MOT because of 
the accident/repair related issues.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He doesn't think the body shop did anything.
The car still needs tracking. But he cant now track the vehicle until he sends the car 
to a body shop.
They didn't replace the tyre like they said they did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Watfords policy summary said that it would provide a courtesy car while its repairer was 
repairing the insured car. The courtesy car would be a small manual hatchback and was 
subject to availability. So Watford didnt have to provide a courtesy car that was like for like 
with Mr Bs car.
In my view, the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Mr B some 
inconvenience and distress.
From the damage report in mid-February 2022, I find that the car had a recorded mileage of 
about 114,800. I also note that the accident caused damage to the front offside. 
The repair took longer than I wouldve expected. But I accept that it took longer than 
expected to get spare parts. In the meantime, Mr B had a courtesy car, so he was able to get 
around. 
From what hes said, Mr B was hoping that the repairer would put right all issues with the 
car. But I consider that Watford was responsible only for repairing the damage caused in the 
accident in January 2022.
The repairers invoice dated July 2022 included a R/F wing and a R/F tyre as well as an 
OSF alloy refurb. The invoice was for a total of about £2,600.00 including VAT. I dont 
accept Mr Bs view that the repairer had done nothing. I find that the repairer had repaired 
the accident damage including the right (or offside) front wing.
The repairer later offered to reimburse Mr B for a front offside tyre if he provided an invoice. 
So I accept that the repairer had ordered a trye but not fitted it. The repairer offered to 
reimburse Mr B for a new tyre. So I dont consider that Watford needs to do any more in that 
respect.
From the MOT record, I see that the car failed because of defects including the following:
nearside tyres
offside front shock absorber leaking
rear brake pipes corroded.
I cant say that any of those defects were related to the accident or the repair. I find it more 
likely that they were wear and tear.
I see that the car passed an MOT test on 14 July 2022.  I accept the repairers statement 
someone must have dismantled the front suspension to replace the shock absorber, so the 
geometry or tracking wouldve needed to be re-calibrated. I dont accept that Watford or its 
repairer were responsible for the issue with tracking after that date.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Watford to pay Mr B compensation or to 
do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman