DRN-3389608
The complaint
Mr O complains as a partner of O, a partnership, about Lloyds Bank PLC placing a block on 
Os business account. 
What happened
Mr O, together with his late brother, were in an equal business partnership in O and were the 
joint holders of Os business account with Lloyds Bank. Mr Os brother passed away so Mr O 
contacted Lloyds Bank in July 2019 to ask if he could continue trading as a sole partner to 
ensure his business wasnt affected. Mr O says he was told he would need to open a new 
business account in Os name and the account balance of £103,000 would be transferred 
into the new account. Mr O says he followed these steps but then contacted Lloyds Bank 
when the funds werent transferred. Mr O says he then found out that Os business account 
had been frozen by his late brothers son  who was executor of Mr Os late brothers estate. 
Mr O says he chased Lloyds Bank a number of times over the next few months to sort out 
the issue but Lloyds Bank refused to remove the block on the basis there was a dispute. 
Mr O complained and Lloyds Bank responded in November 2019 and explained there 
appears to be a dispute between Mr O and the personal representatives of his late brothers 
estate, over the ownership of the funds in Os business account. Lloyds Bank said its not 
their role to decide on the ownership of funds in an account, so they placed a block on the 
account pending confirmation of the true ownership of the funds to safeguard the interests of 
both parties. They said this is normal banking practice in circumstances such as these. They 
said, given the possible commercial implications on O of the block placed on its account, 
Lloyds Bank were willing to allow critical payments, such as employee wages and payments 
to suppliers, to be made from the account. They said, this is provided both sides confirm to 
them that the payments are to be made from the account. Lloyds Bank said they have 
already previously informed Mr O and his solicitor, and the solicitors acting for Mr Os late 
brothers estate, of this.  
Mr Os solicitor then wrote to Lloyds Bank and explained Mr O had exercised an option to 
purchase his late brothers shares which meant he was sole owner of O and its business 
account. Lloyds Bank then lifted the block on the account. The funds were then transferred 
to Mr O in August 2020. Mr O says he doesnt understand why Lloyds Bank decided to 
release the funds now as nothing had changed since he first requested the release of funds.   
 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to O 
and Lloyds Bank on 9 March 2022. In my provisional decision I said as follows:      
The issue here relates to Lloyds Bank placing a block on Os account on the basis 
there was a dispute. The terms and conditions of Os account say business 
customers should let Lloyds Bank know as soon as possible if there is a partnership 
dispute. It goes further to say, if the dispute becomes serious, theyll have to freeze 
the account until its resolved and This means that neither of you will be able to take 
any money out of the account (or carry out any other transactions). The terms and 
conditions do allow Lloyds Bank to freeze an account in the event of a partnership 
dispute. So, while I cant say Lloyds Bank have acted outside of the terms and 
conditions, Ive looked to see whether Lloyds Bank were reasonable in their view that 
a partnership dispute existed.   
Mr Os solicitor wrote to Lloyds Bank on 3 July 2019 to say he acts for Mr O. He says 
Mr Os brother has passed away but, prior to this, he was in dispute with Mr O about 
the ongoing Partnership. He says no consensual solution was reached between the 
parties. He says    Mr O is now the sole remaining partner of the business and it has 
been common ground between Mr O and his late brother that their business has 
been governed by a Partnership Agreement  and he encloses a copy. The solicitor 
refers to a clause within the Partnership Agreement which allows Mr O to purchase 
his late brothers share in the business. He says Mr O is presently considering 
whether to exercise that option but in the meantime hes focussed on overseeing the 
continuity of the business. He says that all arrangements in relation to Os bank 
account should be dealt with by Mr O alone. 
Mr Os solicitor wrote again on 26 July 2019 to say he hasnt received an 
acknowledgment or reply to his letter of 3 July. He notes Mr O has opened a new 
bank account allowing him to continue as a Sole Trader. The solicitor says Mr O has 
told him that Lloyds Bank said he couldnt have access to the funds in Os account 
until probate has been granted for his late brothers estate. The solicitor says this 
isnt correct as the Grant of Probate has no bearing on the matters relating to the 
Partnership. The solicitor asks Lloyds Bank to give Mr O immediate access to the 
funds in Os account. The account was then blocked on 31 July.  
The solicitors for the personal representatives wrote to Lloyds Bank on 12 August to 
say they understand Mr O has indicated that the funds should be transferred to his 
Sole Trader account. They say they arent in agreement with this and wish to ensure 
the executors are aware of dealings in respect of Os account. I can see Lloyds 
Banks internal legal team looked into this in September and their view was that they 
would need to seek confirmation whether any funds in the account, or shares in the 
Partnership, are entitled to be passed to Mr Os late brothers estate. 
 
Mr O then exercised the option to purchase his late brothers shares and his solicitor 
emailed Lloyds Bank and provided a copy of the Option Notice, which is dated 11 
September 2019. Lloyds Bank responded on 24 September acknowledging receipt of 
this. Lloyds Bank say the Option Notice has been noted but its a matter between Mr 
O and the personal representatives of his late brothers estate. I can see theres 
further communication after this point between Mr O and Lloyds Bank around the 
account block.   
Lloyds Bank wrote to Mr O on 3 June 2020 to say Mr O had asked them to provide a 
letter for the benefit of the court explaining why they had blocked Os account. Lloyds 
Bank explained its not their role to decide who the funds belong to in a customers 
account and they dont propose to do so. They referred to their complaint response 
and said they had taken the commercial decision to block Os account when they 
became aware of a dispute between Mr O and the personal representatives of his 
late brothers estate, over the ownership of the funds in Os account. They say they 
did this pending confirmation of who truly owns the funds and was to safeguard the 
interests of both sides. They say, since they havent received confirmation from both 
sides that the dispute has been resolved, their position remains the same.   
Mr Os solicitor wrote to Lloyds Bank on 15 June to say he has acted for Mr O since 
he was instructed in connection with a dispute between Mr O and his late brother. 
The solicitor refers to correspondence he sent Lloyds Bank to allow Mr O to operate 
Os bank account without restriction, on the basis that he is the sole surviving partner in the partnership of O. The solicitor says Lloyds Bank arent entitled to freeze Os 
account in the circumstances which now exist. He says the fact theres an 
acrimonious dispute between Mr O and the personal representatives of Mr Os late 
brothers estate (which was now subject to Arbitration) does not impact on Os bank 
account. He says its common ground that the Partnership is governed by a 
Partnership Agreement. And, he says, as a matter of law, although the personal 
representatives have an interest in relation to Mr Os brothers share in the 
Partnership, they dont have any legal status as partners  they dont step into his 
shoes. 
Mr Os solicitor says the entitlement of the personal representatives is merely to 
receive an account, which they will in due course. He says this will arise out of the 
Partnership Arbitration. The solicitor says the Partnership Agreement contains an 
option provision. He says Mr O served a valid and effective notice to exercise the 
option to purchase the interest of his late brothers estate in the Partnership. He says 
the purpose of the Arbitration is to establish the price to be paid by Mr O in relation to 
the exercise of the option. The solicitor says, therefore, Os business account falls to 
Mr O who has acquired the interest pursuant to the exercise of the option. He says 
its also critical to the ongoing business for O that Mr O has access to Os funds. The 
solicitor appears to be making the point that the Partnership Agreement allows Mr O 
to exercise an option to purchase his late brothers interest in the Partnership  and 
thats what hes done. The solicitor makes the point that the Arbitration is to decide 
what Mr O should pay to purchase his late brothers interest and not in relation to any 
aspect of the ongoing trading of the business. The solicitor asks Lloyds Bank to 
consider this in order to avoid continuing hardship for the ongoing trading of the 
business through the freezing of Os account.
Having not heard back, Mr Os solicitor chases on 2 July. I can see Lloyds Banks 
internal departments considered this further. They refer to Mr Os solicitors letter and 
say hes suggesting that Mr O effectively exercised the option to buy out his late 
brothers share. They say, it would appear that the parties are currently in dispute 
over the price paid, rather than disputing that the option was exercised. They say 
they need evidence that the option was exercised and that the funds due to be paid 
out to Mr Os late brothers estate were paid, therefore transferring the share of the 
partnership to Mr O. 
The internal colleague says they agree that the blocks should have been placed on 
the account pending confirmation of the ownership of funds remaining in the account. 
And, they say they need to see evidence that the interest in the Partnership had been 
transferred. 
 
Lloyds Bank then get in touch with Mr Os solicitor to ask for evidence of the Option 
Notice. The solicitor responds on 15 July and provides a copy of the Option Notice, 
evidence of it being sent to the solicitors for the personal representatives on 11 
September 2019 and their reply dated 15 October 2019 which says their clients do 
not take issue with the validity of the Option Notice or the basis on which it was 
exercised. 
An internal department then replies to their colleague on 16 July saying they have 
spoken with Mr Os solicitor who has provided a copy of the Option Notice showing 
Mr O has exercised his share purchase option in line with the Partnership 
Agreement. They say Mr Os solicitors argument is that, since Mr O has exercised 
his option, the partnership account falls to him, and the purchase price  which is yet 
to be determined - is irrelevant to the account and strictly between Mr O and his late 
brothers personal representatives. An internal colleague then replies and says, it 
does appear as though the option was exercised in line with the Partnership Agreement and therefore Mr O has taken control of the business. They say, on this 
basis, they are comfortable with the block being removed and Mr O, the remaining 
partner, being the sole signatory to the account 
Lloyds Bank then wrote to Mr Os solicitor on 16 July to confirm they were now willing 
to remove the block on Os account and provide Mr O with the necessary access to 
the funds. Mr Os solicitor wrote to Lloyds Bank on 14 August to say the funds still 
havent been released to Mr O  he asks for this to be done without further delay. Mr 
O says the funds were transferred to him on 15 August. 
Taking this all into account, its clear there was a dispute between Mr O and the 
personal representatives of his late brothers estate. So, once notified of the dispute, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds Bank to freeze the account. I say this for 
a number of reasons. The terms and conditions allow Lloyds Bank to take this step 
and its clear from all the information theyd received from Mr O and the personal 
representatives that there was a dispute. In addition to this, Mr Os solicitors letter on 
3 July 2019 suggests Mr Os late brother had passed away while there was an 
ongoing partnership dispute with Mr O. At the point the account is frozen, theres no 
suggestion that any evidence was sent to Lloyds Bank which would suggest the 
personal representatives had no interest in the funds in Os account. And, 
importantly, Mr O hadnt at that point exercised the option to purchase his late 
brothers share of O. However, while I dont think the original application of the block 
was unfair, I do think Lloyds Bank have made an error in keeping the block in place 
for the length of time they did.  
The Partnership Agreement does contain a provision for a surviving partner to 
exercise an option to purchase the shares of any partner who has passed away. 
Although the Partnership Agreement doesnt make any provision for how much the 
shares should be purchased for, it does suggest that a surviving partner, by 
exercising the option, would in effect be buying out the shares of the partner who had 
passed away. Ive looked at the Option Notice which was sent and received by 
Lloyds Bank on 24 September 2019 and this contains a declaration that Mr O has 
exercised the option to purchase the shares of his late brother in O  and This notice 
shall take effect immediately. The Option Notice also sets out how the price of the 
shares are to be calculated.    
Its not my role to decide the legal position in relation to the Partnership Agreement 
and the effect of the Option Notice. But, in deciding whether Lloyds Bank have acted 
unfairly, what I find most persuasive here is Lloyds Banks reasons for lifting the 
block. 
Its clear this was a complicated matter with arguments being put forward by solicitors 
representing Mr O and the personal representatives. And, given the complex nature 
of the submissions being made, Lloyds Bank continued to liaise with their internal 
legal department. The case is considered in July 2020 and its clear the legal 
departments focus at this point is on whether Mr O exercised the option to purchase 
his late brothers share. 
Accordingly, Lloyds Bank ask for evidence of this from Mr Os solicitor, which he 
provides. This is then considered by the legal department and their view is that Mr O 
has exercised his option in line with the Partnership Agreement and has therefore 
taken control of O  and the blocks can therefore be removed. 
The information considered by Lloyds Bank here, and on which they made the 
decision to lift the block, is information they had since 24 September 2019. At this 
point they already had the Partnership Agreement and the Option Notice then followed on 24 September. I can see there were requests for further information 
since 24 September, such as a completed bereavement form and Grant of Probate, 
but I cant see they featured in Lloyds Banks reasoning for lifting the block in July 
2020. 
Lloyds Bank refer to the terms and conditions and say they had a duty to protect the 
interests of any personal representatives of the estate of a partner who has passed 
away. Looking at the terms and conditions, Lloyds Bank appear to be referring to 
section 8 which sets out the position if a partner has passed away. This says If the 
account is in credit, the personal representatives of the deceased will have the same 
claim to the money as the ex-partner had while alive I do understand Lloyds 
Banks point here and thats why I dont disagree they had acted reasonably when 
first applying the block. At that point, given the information they had, there wasnt 
anything to suggest the personal representatives didnt have any interest in the funds 
in Os account. I believe the position changed however once Mr O exercised his 
option because, at that point, and as Lloyds Banks legal department have 
recognised, Mr O, being the sole surviving partner in O and had taken control of O. 
So, I dont believe section 8 of the terms and conditions still applied at this point. And, 
importantly, Lloyds Bank dont rely on this as a reason to keep the block in place 
when their legal department considered the issue in July 2020. 
Lloyds Bank say it wasnt until they received sufficient evidence from Mr Os solicitor 
in July 2020 that they were able to remove the block on Os account and transfer the 
funds in line with Mr Os request. They say the information included a letter from the 
solicitors acting for the personal representatives confirming they dont take issue with 
the validity of the Option Notice. Lloyds Bank say, on receipt of this confirmation, they 
arranged to remove the block. I cant see this letter was sent to Lloyds Bank 
previously. But, Im not persuaded this was the key factor behind Lloyds Banks 
decision. The communication between the legal department refers quite specifically 
to the Partnership Agreement and the Option Notice  and how this leads to their 
reasoning to remove the block. I cant see the legal department have referred to this 
letter in their discussion and this being a persuasive factor in their decision. I think its 
also important to add that, if Lloyds Bank did feel this confirmation from the personal 
representatives solicitor was important  and a factor which wouldve led to the block 
being lifted sooner  then they couldve asked Mr O or his solicitor for this. The letter 
is dated 15 October 2019 so its something which couldve been provided and led to 
the block being lifted much sooner.   
Taking this all into account, I think Lloyds Bank have acted unfairly in leaving the 
account block in place beyond September 2019. This means the block was in place, 
when it shouldnt have been, for nearly 10 months. This meant 10 months where Mr 
O couldnt trade using the funds from Os account and there being significant 
limitations and problems in continuing with his business. Ive read Mr Os testimony 
on the impact this has had on him and his business and I have no doubt this has had 
a very severe impact on him. 
Mr O says he was unable to pay suppliers and other services necessary for the 
normal running of his business. He says he was unable to recruit extra staff so had to 
carry out many more hours of work himself which caused physical exhaustion. He 
had to rely on his wifes income for living expenses and had to borrow money from 
his mother. He says the whole incident has had a significant effect on his reputation 
with suppliers with who he had previously enjoyed a long-standing relationship. Mr O 
has also provided medical evidence which confirms he has been under significant 
stress.     Its clear the business was Mr Os source of income and he has been left for 10 
months without access to the money in the account and being restricted in the 
normal running of his business. I think Lloyds Banks error has caused sustained 
distress over a significant period of time which has affected Mr Os health. And, there 
has been severe disruption to his daily life which has lasted almost a year. I therefore 
think Lloyds Bank should compensate Mr O for the severe upset, inconvenience and 
trouble caused to him. I think compensation of £4,000 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr O is also asking for Lloyds Bank to pay for the solicitors costs he has incurred in 
having to instruct them to deal with the block placed on the account. I can see Mr Os 
solicitor has provided a letter where he estimates he has carried out 25-30 hours of 
work at £360 per hour. He says his costs are in the region of £9,000. The first point I 
would make is that Mr Os solicitor accepts that, in dealing with this issue with Lloyds 
Bank, he didnt run a separate file and often he would discuss these matters with Mr 
O where part of the discussion related to this issue, but part wouldnt. I think Mr Os 
solicitors letter of 3 July 2019 to Lloyds Bank supports this as it refers to the solicitor 
acting for Mr O in relation to the long-standing partnership dispute. I cant see Mr Os 
solicitor has provided a Schedule of Costs setting out precisely what work was 
carried out and when. That said, its clear Mr Os solicitor has carried out work as 
evidenced by his letters to Lloyds Bank. 
I think its important to add, its not my role to carry out a detailed examination of the 
costs but I do feel its fair for Lloyds Bank to be, at least in part, responsible for these 
costs. I think its fair for the starting point for this to be 24 September 2019 as that is 
when I believe the block shouldve been lifted. I can see Mr Os solicitor did send 
letters prior to this, but, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for a block to be in place up to this point. From that point, from the information thats 
been provided to me, I can see Mr Os solicitor has four main interventions. This 
being, the letter of 15 June 2020, the chaser on 3 July, then providing the information 
requested by Lloyds Bank and then chasing them in August. I think its fair to apply 
an hours work to each of these actions. I recognise that a chaser wont have taken 
as much time as a substantive letter but I feel an hour for each action is a fair 
balance as the letter of 15 June is very detailed and likely to have taken more than 
an hours work. So, four hours at the solicitors hourly rate would arrive at costs of 
£1,440.         
I can see Mr O says, due to Os account being frozen, he was unable to pay a former 
employees salary. So, the former employee took legal proceedings against O at an 
Employment Tribunal. Mr O says Judgment was made in favour of the former 
employee and this led to him being awarded over £25,000 plus his legal costs of 
nearly £7,500. Mr O says his own solicitors costs for defending the claim were just 
over £38,000. Ive read the Judgment for this employment claim but Im not 
persuaded these costs have arisen as a direct result of Lloyds Banks error. 
The Judgment refers to the claim being for unlawful deduction of wages, 
compensation for untaken annual leave and constructive unfair dismissal. Part of the 
dispute does involve the former employee not being paid his salary but the Court 
Judgment refers to a date in August 2019, and the former employee not having been 
paid for three months. This would suggest the dispute started in May 2019 - which 
was before Os account was blocked. 
The Judgment does make reference to Mr O saying in evidence that he didnt pay the 
former employee because Os business account had been frozen and he blamed the 
former employee for the fact of it being frozen. But, I cant see this argument is accepted by the Tribunal and theres reference to other more longer standing issues 
leading to Judgment being made in favour of the former employee. So, I wont be 
asking Lloyds Bank to meet these costs. 
So, subject to any further comments from O or Lloyds Bank, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank to pay compensation of 
£4,000 to Mr O as well as £1,440 towards his legal costs.  
Following my provisional decision, Lloyds Bank have responded to say they accept the 
recommendations for settlement of this complaint. Mr O has responded and says he accepts 
the decision in order to draw a line under the process. Mr O has however made some further 
points. He feels the points made about the Employment Tribunal claim arent accurate and 
the claim doesnt date back to 2017. He says the basis of the claim started in 2019 and was 
as a result of Lloyds Bank not lifting the block to allow him to pay his former employee. Mr O 
says theres no mention of Lloyds Bank blocking the account following a phone call from an 
employee and personal representative of his late brothers estate. Mr O also feels the 
recommended compensation award and payment towards his legal costs isnt fair. 
Given that both parties have responded and agree to the redress set out in my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to delay making a final decision. I will however address Mr Os 
further points, below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
I note Mr O feels the account being blocked was a central issue in the Employment Tribunal 
claim and the costs which followed are a direct result of Lloyds Banks error. I agree there is 
mention of the account being blocked in the Judgment but this is in the context of a 
submission put forward by Mr O. The Judgment refers to three heads of claim and, while the 
account being blocked might well relate to one of those claims, its clear the substantive 
issues relating to that particular claim existed before the account was blocked.  
Mr O says theres no mention of the personal representative phoning Lloyds Bank to block 
the account. I have referred to this in my provisional decision. I think it was clear there was a 
dispute between Mr O and the personal representatives of his late brothers estate. So, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds Bank to have placed the block initially. In relation 
to the recommended redress, I do note Mr Os point, but Ive set out my reasoning for why 
the compensation award and payment towards legal costs is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. And, I havent been provided with any information which 
persuades me that a higher award, to what Ive recommended, should be made.      
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Lloyds Bank have acted unfairly in keeping the account block in 
place beyond September 2019. This has caused sustained distress to Mr O over a 
significant period of time which has affected his health. And, there has been severe 
disruption to his daily life. So, Lloyds Bank should pay Mr O compensation of £4,000. Mr O 
has also incurred solicitors fees in dealing with the account block, so Lloyds Bank should 
also pay £1,440 towards those costs.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman