DRN-4046676
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Society of Lloyds trading as Lloyds of London (SOL) unfairly 
increased the cost of his income protection policy.  
What happened
Mr B took out an income protection insurance policy in 2019 which was renewable monthly. 
In July 2020, Mr B was told the price of the policy would increase from £65.51 to £72.06. In 
January 2021 he was told the price would increase to £126.10 and in July 2021 he was told 
the price would increase to £195.46. 
Mr B complained about the price increases but SOL said the increases were a commercial 
decision and that as the policy was renewable monthly, it could change the price and 
benefits at any time. SOL said its decision to increase premiums related to the number of 
claims it had received as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Unhappy, Mr B referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that SOL pay Mr B £500 
compensation as the policy terms didnt make it clear that the premium could increase 
multiple times and could be unlimited. 
Initially, SOL didnt think £500 compensation was reasonable. It offered £150. Following 
further correspondence, it said would take a pragmatic view and sent a cheque for £500 to 
Mr B. 
Mr B disagreed with the level of compensation and in summary, has made the following 
comments:
He also complained about the sale of the policy but this hasnt been addressed.
He hasnt seen SOLs underwriting criteria or evidence to support the reasons for the 
premium increases.
He never would have taken the policy had he known about the risk of increase in 
premiums.
He is now even further out of pocket as he continued with the policy during our 
investigation. He should be due a refund of premiums.
Mr B would like a detailed breakdown of the £500 compensation. He would like to 
know how many people cancelled after the premium increases and also confirmation 
that other insurers also increased premiums.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has already set out the relevant rules and industry guidelines that apply. 
And I agree that they are the relevant considerations in this case. 
Mr B is unhappy with the way the premiums were increased and didnt think he had been 
treated fairly. That is no longer in dispute and all parties agree that the policy information 
could have been clearer about the level and frequency of premium changes. 
However, Mr B remains unhappy that specific evidence hasnt been provided to him and is 
also unhappy with the compensation he has been awarded. So my decision will focus on 
these outstanding issues. 
This decision only deals with the complaint about the premium increases and not the 
sale of the policy. Mr B has been informed he would need to raise a separate 
complaint about the sale of the policy with the seller. 
In relation to the evidence that Mr B would like to see (underwriting criteria and 
evidence to support increases), this is commercially sensitive data that I cannot 
share with him. I would like to reassure Mr B that I have reviewed all of the 
information provided by SOL and have considered everything as a whole. 
We investigate complaints based on the specific and individual circumstances of 
each case. I dont have information about the number of people who cancelled their 
policy. And whether other insurers also increased premiums isnt a relevant 
consideration to my decision. SOL is entitled to increase premiums and decide 
whether or not its willing to cover a particular insurance risk. However, the way it 
increases premiums has to be explained clearly and applied fairly. And that is what I 
have considered in this decision.
Mr B says he never would have taken the policy and so should be due a refund of 
premiums. Ive thought very carefully about whether a refund of premiums would be 
fair in the circumstances of this case. I dont think it would be. SOL was entitled to 
increase the cost of cover even though the way the increases could happen werent 
clear enough in the policy documents. Mr B was still benefitting from having cover in 
the event he needed to claim and SOL was bearing that risk. So I dont think a refund 
of premiums is the fair and reasonable outcome in this case. 
Mr B did agree to the initial premium cost and could reasonably have expected some 
price increases over the years. However, based on the number and levels of 
increase, he was caused shock, distress and inconvenience and a loss of 
expectation of how the policy would be priced. For that reason, I consider £500 
compensation is appropriate to recognise the impact on Mr B.
Mr B would like a detailed breakdown of the compensation paid. Distress and 
inconvenience awards arent broken down in this way as it isnt an exact science  
each case is considered on its own merits. Our approach to compensation awards is 
available on our website. But to clarify for Mr B, I think £500 is appropriate based on 
the significant distress and inconvenience that would have been caused to him when 
he realised SOL could increase the premium in the way that it did and the resulting 
frustration of having to cancel and consider an alternative policy. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think the £500 compensation already paid By Society of 
Lloyds is reasonable and so I wont be directing it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman