DRN-4231335
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about their mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Mr and Mrs M 
are unhappy that, when their interest rate product was due to come to an end, they werent 
able to book a new rate due to the length of time remaining on the mortgage. 
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs M would like HSBC to compensate them for the loss of 
cashing in investments early which would be based on the percentage change of the 
mortgage interest rate due to the delayed timescale, multiplied by the capital sum we had to 
pay off.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs M being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have an interest-only mortgage with HSBC initially taken out in 2008 and, at 
the time of the events complained of, due to reach the end of its term on 4 July 2023. In 
2017 they took out a five-year fixed interest rate product which was due to expire on 
31 December 2022.
HSBC sent Mr and Mrs M a form each year, referred to as the Annual Disclosure Form 
(ADF) in which Mr and Mrs M set out their repayment strategy for the interest-only mortgage.  
In 2021 Mr and Mrs M told HSBC on the ADF that their plan wasnt to repay the mortgage in 
July 2023 but to extend the term instead. They said they would either discuss this with 
HSBC at the appropriate time or would otherwise re-mortgage.
On 22 August 2022, during a telephone call, Mr and Mrs M were told that they could secure 
a new product up to 90 days in advance. HSBC changed its process two days later, allowing 
customers 120 days to apply for a new rate. 
On 8 September 2022 HSBC advised Mr and Mrs M that their interest rate product was due 
to expire on 31 December 2022 and invited them to book a new rate online. This was a 
system-generated letter prompted by the pending expiry of the interest rate product, and so 
it did not pick up the impending term expiration date.
Mr and Mrs M werent able to secure a new rate online, due to the remaining length of the 
mortgage term, which was only about ten months, and so less than the shortest fixed rate 
HSBC offered. At that point Mr and Mrs M had just over £73,000 outstanding on the 
mortgage. After a mortgage review with an adviser at the bank, Mr and Mrs M took out a 
new interest-only mortgage over a five-year term, reducing their borrowing to £25,000 and 
attaching a new fixed interest rate product to the new mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M complained to HSBC. The crux of the complaint is this: Mr and Mrs M say that 
over the last few years HSBC sent the ADF asking Mr and Mrs M to tell the bank about their 
repayment strategy for the mortgage. Theyd explained to HSBC on this form that they would 
require a term extension. They said they would have hoped that a review at an important 
time of requiring a new mortgage deal would not have been necessary (as it should have 
been done nearer to the time the form was returned) and as a consequence of having to 
undertake a review at this later stage resulted in being offered an interest rate considerably 
higher than what it should have otherwise been
Mr and Mrs M also complained that theyd not been given 120 days to renew their mortgage 
interest rate product, and that when Mr M had spoken to HSBC on 22 August 2022, hed not 
been told that hed need to go through a mortgage review and make an application.
In its final response, HSBC explained that the staff who dealt with the ADFs were not 
mortgage advisers and so would not use the information on those forms to review rates or 
products that the customer might at some point in the future want to apply for. HSBC said 
that it was up to Mr and Mrs M to contact the bank about a term extension. 
HSBC clarified that the mortgage term and the mortgage interest rate product are two 
separate things, and the end dates of these might not coincide. Because a term extension 
was needed, this required an application.
Ultimately HSBC said it wasnt able to identify any bank error and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. Dissatisfied with this response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to our 
service. 
Mr and Mrs M said that, because theyd told HSBC the previous year that theyd wanted a 
term extension, HSBC should have used this information to be in a position to switch them 
onto a new rate immediately, without any delay. However, because this process took several 
weeks, interest rates increased in the meantime. Mr and Mrs M were also unhappy that 
theyd not been told in a timely manner about the change from the 90-day window to the 
120-day window to switch to a new rate.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the bank had acted incorrectly. 
She was satisfied that the 120-day window had come in after Mr M had spoken to HSBC on 
22 August 2022. The investigator understood Mr and Mrs Ms frustrations, but didnt think 
that HSBC was under any obligation to backdate the interest rate or otherwise compensate 
Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators findings. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case, and to be given advice about taking legal action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr and Mrs M; Im not upholding 
their complaint. These are my reasons.
First, in relation to the 120-day window, this came into effect on 24 August 2022, after Mr M 
had spoken to HSBC two days earlier. Mr and Mrs Ms interest rate product was due to 
expire on 31 December 2022, and 120 days before that was 2 September 2022. HSBC sent 
out a system-generated latter on 8 September 2022, so there was only a six-day gap (including a weekend), which I am not persuaded was onerous or resulted in any loss or 
detriment to Mr and Mrs M.
I say this because Mr and Mrs M couldnt apply for a rate online, as they needed a term 
extension. I completely understand why Mr and Mrs M were confused and frustrated when 
they tried to secure a new rate online but couldnt, and that they had to go through the 
process of applying for a term extension. Because a term extension is considered to be a 
material change to the mortgage contract, HSBC is entitled to consider affordability and 
assess the request against its lending criteria. Its not simply a formality that HSBC can do at 
the click of a button, as the bank is required to comply with its regulatory obligations in line 
with the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) to ensure 
that any change to the mortgage is suitable, affordable and in the customers best interests.
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms argument that submission of the ADF many months 
earlier telling HSBC that they would need a term extension would (or should) have prompted 
the bank to have put an extension in place. Nor do I think HSBC was under any obligation to 
contact Mr and Mrs M to ask them if they still wanted this.
I say this because HSBCs role is to administer the mortgage account, not to manage it; its 
up to Mr and Mrs M to manage their finances, including the timing of the repayment of their 
mortgage, and whether they wanted to repay it at the term end, or postpone that to some 
future date. HSBC wouldnt be expected to know if Mr and Mrs M had changed their minds 
about extending the term. Additionally, a request for a term extension isnt something that Id 
expect HSBC proactively to offer to a customer, and I can see that Mr and Mrs M told HSBC 
when submitting a previous ADF that they would discuss a term extension with the bank at 
the appropriate stage. 
Mr M says that when he spoke to HSBC in August 2022 asking about booking a new rate he 
wasnt told hed need to apply for a term extension. However, Im satisfied that the reason for 
the call was to ask about the timing of a new rate, and Mr M was given the correct 
information about this specific point as at that date.
It wasnt until 12 October 2022 that Mr and Mrs M were able to have a full mortgage review 
with HSBC. Unfortunately, by this time interest rates had risen, largely as a result of events 
outside the control of HSBC. It was the mini-budget held on 23 September 2022 which 
caused turmoil in the financial markets and resulted in immediate interest rate increases. In 
turn this led to unprecedented demand for new mortgage interest rate products, leading to 
delay for some customers.
In all the circumstances, I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would, or could, have secured an 
earlier appointment, and thus a better interest rate. As Ive said above, HSBC wasnt obliged 
to offer, unprompted, a mortgage review in August 2022. It wasnt until mid-September that 
Mr and Mrs M were told they needed to apply for a term extension. However, Im satisfied 
that a four-week turnaround for Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage review was in line with general 
business standards, particularly given the financial climate at that time.
Overall, the evidence doesnt lead me to conclude that HSBC has treated Mr and Mrs M 
unfairly in relation to their request for a term extension or a new interest rate product. This 
means that Im not upholding the complaint.
Im also not persuaded HSBC is under any obligation to compensate Mr and Mrs M for 
cashing in some of their investments to reduce their mortgage balance. That was their 
choice. I will also explain that, although Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ms request for us to provide 
them with legal advice, we do not act either for consumers or financial businesses, and so we are unable to give advice to Mr and Mrs M. If they would like legal advice, they will need 
to arrange this themselves, through their own solicitors.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman