DRN-2796271
The complaint
Mr D has complained that the broker Complete Cover Group didnt do enough to notify him 
his commercial vehicle insurance policy lapsed. Mr D wasnt insured when he intended to 
make a claim following the theft of his van. 
Mr B is representing Mr D in his complaint.
What happened
Mr D bought a commercial vehicle insurance policy through the broker CCG in 2016. CCG 
arranged for he policy to automatically renew in 2017 and 2018. In December 2018 Mr D 
updated the email address from a representative of his to a personal one. CCG updated 
their records. 
A few days later in December 2018 Mr D called CCG about an unrelated matter. As part of 
the security questions, Mr D provided information including his email address. This time the 
email address he provided had a dot between his first and last name. The email address 
hed provided a few days earlier  to advise of a change in email address  didnt. CCG 
didnt change the email address.
In 2019 CCG arranged the renewal of Mr Ds policy. Cover was in place until 25 June 2020. 
CCG used the email address Mr D had provided in the first call in December 2018 as the 
main form of contact. 
It didnt receive any bounce back from the email address  and it didnt hear from Mr D. So 
CCG arranged for Mr Ds policy to renew automatically. Monthly payments continued by 
Direct Debit. 
In early June 2020 CCG emailed Mr D and sent him messages by text asking him to contact 
it before the renewal date. This was because the previous insurer could no longer offer 
cover. It wasnt possible for CCG to automatically renew Mr Ds policy. CCG provided a 
quote from an alternative insurer which it needed Mr Ds agreement to in order to proceed. 
CCG didnt hear from Mr D and so his commercial vehicle insurance policy lapsed in June 
2020. 
Mr D contacted CCG about two weeks after his policy lapsed to advise that his van had been 
stolen along with his work tools inside. He wanted to make a claim against his insurance 
policy. 
But CCG told him that the policy had lapsed and so he didnt have cover. On checking the 
details held, Mr D told CCG that the email address it had used should have had a dot in 
between his first and last name. Mr D said he gave CCG the correct email address. He 
complained and said it was responsible for him not being aware of his policy lapsing. 
Mr D wanted CCG to cover his claim and compensate him for the inconvenience caused. He 
said hed had to rent a van and borrow from friends and family to try and replace some of the 
tools as he needs them for his livelihood. 
In September 2020 CCG replied to Mr Ds complaint. It said when Mr D first contacted it in 
December 2018 he asked it to update the email address, so CCG did. The email address Mr 
D gave in this call had no dot between his first and last name.
When he called later in December 2018, CCG acknowledged that the agent should have 
questioned the email address provided by Mr D as this was different. But CCG said the 
purpose of this call wasnt to change the email address. 
CCG pointed out that when it renewed Mr Ds policy in 2019 he didnt contact it to say he 
hadnt received his policy documents  and the emails it sent hadnt been returned as 
undelivered. 
CCG said that ultimately it was Mr Ds responsibility to make sure he was insured to drive his 
vehicle. So it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr D remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought 
CCG had acted reasonably. He said that CCG had also sent Mr D text messages asking him 
to contact it. So it hadnt just relied on the email address to tell Mr D he needed to contact it 
about renewing his policy. 
The investigator said that although the agent should have picked up on the change in email 
address, the reason for the call wasnt to change the address previously given  and it 
wasnt enough to decide that CCG was therefore responsible for Mr D not having insurance 
cover when his van was stolen. He thought Mr D should have checked he was insured. So 
he didnt recommend Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. 
Mr D didnt agree. His representative says CCG didnt send any text messages to Mr D. He 
believes CCG is responsible for Mr Ds losses as it should have acted on the email address 
difference from the second call in December 2018. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think CCG should have checked with Mr D about the difference in email address which he 
quoted when he called back to discuss premium arrears in December 2018. But I cant say 
that this issue alone means CCG is responsible for Mr Ds losses. Ill explain why.
When Mr D bought his policy with CCG in June 2018 he opted for automatic renewal. CCG 
told Mr D under its Terms and Conditions that automatic renewal isnt guaranteed. CCG said 
because it was an online policy the preferred method of communication is email. 
The first error was made by Mr D in the first call in December 2018 when confirming the 
email address he wanted to update from his accountants email address. By using the email 
address Mr D first gave, it means he received nothing from CCG over a period of 18 months 
about his vehicle insurance. I appreciate that monthly instalments continued to be taken from 
Mr Ds account. But I think due to the period of time that had passed, this should have alerted Mr D to the possibility that something might be wrong. The last monthly instalment 
taken from Mr Ds account was in April 2020 for his previous policy. 
CCG has provided evidence by way of screenshots of text messages it sent to Mr D on 6 
June 2020 on 3 separate occasions. These messages explained CCG had emailed a 
renewal invitation and asked Mr D to call it. The phone number ends in the same 3 digits as 
Mr D confirmed in calls with CCG. 
I think its very unfortunate that Mr D didnt have access to his mobile phone during the 
period CCG sent him text messages asking him to contact it about the renewal of his policy. 
Mr Ds representative says CCG didnt send them. He says an agent told him that the only 
communication CCG made with Mr D was by email. But Im satisfied from the information 
provided by CCG that it sent text messages to Mr D. And because CCG didnt rely on just 
one method of communication, I think it did enough to alert Mr D.
I therefore cant hold CCG responsible for the lapsing of Mr Ds cover. As a broker, it 
correctly contacted Mr D about the renewal of his policy about a month before the lapse 
date. As it couldnt offer automatic renewal in 2020, it explained this in the correspondence 
Mr D unfortunately didnt receive, requiring him to take action. 
I sympathise with Mr D for the position he finds himself in. But the first error was made when 
Mr D contacted CCG to update his email address to one that wasnt correct. Mr D did quote 
his email address with a dot in the second call in December 2018. But on this information 
alone  and taking into account all of the information available - I cant safely say how likely it 
is that the outcome would have been different. 
Ultimately it was Mr Ds responsibility to check he was insured. Although the email address 
CCG used wasnt correct, it has shown it also sent Mr D three text messages asking him to 
contact it about the renewal of his policy in good time before the lapse date. So I dont think 
CCG is responsible for Mr D not being insured when his van was stolen. 
I realise Mr D will be very disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not upholding 
his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman