DRN-3654181
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs W are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around June 2015, Mr and Mrs W were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs W decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In May 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ws behalf under section 
75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs W to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced at least once during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500).
The CMC added that a revised quote had been generated at the time of installation, when it 
had become apparent that there was no room to install 14 solar panels but only 10. 
However, although the revised quote gave a new price which was £700 less than the original 
price, this had not resulted in a reduction in the total amount repayable under the loan 
agreement, or a refund. Finally, P had not made it clear that the system would deteriorate 
over time.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs W or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. However, it did not address the point about the £700 price reduction. It offered £200 
compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the adjudicator had not dealt with the complaint about the £700 price reduction;
the revised quote had not been signed by Mr or Mrs W, and the electronic signature 
which appears on it has been copied from the original quote;
the revised quote says that the system will take 18 years to pay for itself, which is 
longer than the loan term;
it is not rational to suppose that Mr and Mrs W would really have agreed to buy a 
system that would take longer than the loan period to break even with its cost, unless 
they had been lied to;
Mr and Mrs W are the only eye-witnesses to what was said by the salesman;
if misrepresentations were made, it is no defence in law to show that Mr and Mrs W 
could have discovered them by reading the sales literature.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold it in part. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs W could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs W and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. However Shawbrook denies this, and I have seen no evidence that this 
happened.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement, the original MCS certificate from 2015 and a new one dated 2021, FIT 
statements, a photo of the meter reading, and the revised solar quote, titled Your Personal 
Solar Quotation. Neither party has provided me with the original quote; I invite them to send 
me a copy.
Ive considered these documents, along with Mr and Mrs Ws testimony and recollection of 
the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed the original quote in detail with Mr and Mrs W, explaining any 
benefits of the system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. There is no evidence 
with which I can verify the claim that the electronic signature on the revised quote was 
simply copied from the original quote. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr and 
Mrs W simply took the installers word for it when they were told that they could buy 
thousands of pounds worth of equipment without it costing them a penny  or that this would 
still be the case when the number of panels was reduced from 14 to 10  without at any 
point asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that Mr and Mrs W 
have simply forgotten seeing the quote over the more than six years between the sale and 
the bringing of his claim.
So on the balance of probabilities, having thought carefully about the available evidence, 
I am satisfied that the original quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mr 
and Mrs W agreed to enter into the contract, and therefore accept that the salesperson went 
through it during the meeting. I am also satisfied that the revised quote was shown to them 
too. For that reason, I also accept that the signature on it is genuine. So, Ive taken the 
revised quote into account, along with Mr and Mrs Ws version of events, when considering if 
there have been any untrue statements of fact.
I agree with the CMCs analysis of the law, which I have summarised above. If the salesman 
did mislead Mr and Mrs W about the system, then it would not be a defence for either P or 
Shawbrook to say that Mr and Mrs W could have discovered any misrepresentations simply 
by reading either quote in their own time to find out the true position, either at the point of 
sale or later on. Rather, the relevance of the quote is that I do not think it is likely, on the 
balance of probabilities, that the salesman made oral representations which he knew would 
be contradicted by the quote at a meeting in which the quote played a central part.
Therefore, although I have not heard directly from the salesman, I do not accept the CMCs 
submission that Mr and Mrs Ws own evidence is the only evidence about what was said at 
the meeting. The quote is also evidence about that.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs W have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Ws recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs W could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period. The following excerpts are from the 
revised quote.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £339.91. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr 
and Mrs W could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are 
£192 and, when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs W, the 
combined income and savings in year one is shown as £580.62. This is shown in a table 
titled Putting it all together.
This results in an average monthly income of £48.39. Im satisfied that the same document 
set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £77.60. As a result, Im not able 
to conclude that Mr and Mrs W were told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs W entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £77.60. The loan agreement  and 
presumably the original quote  give this figure as £86.90. As the difference (£9.30) is 
significant, I will consider both figures in turn.
For each year of the 15 year loan the table shows the expected grand total return from the 
system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan 
repayment of £77.60, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first nine years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough money 
to cover the loan payments until year ten.
If the original (and correct) monthly loan payment of £86.90 is used instead, then it would 
actually take another year for the system to begin to cover the loan payments. But for the 
present purpose, I dont think it much matters whether it would take 10 or 11 years for the 
system to pay for itself; the point here is that the quote said it would not happen straight 
away.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr and Mrs W werent told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan 
repayments.) Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Ws version of events. However, as 
Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson 
went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph, from page 6 of the quote, which plainly showed that 
the system would not be enough to cover the loan payments (whichever loan payment figure 
is used).
£700 price difference
As I said in the previous section, the result of the £700 price reduction was to reduce the 
loan payments by £9.30 a month. Over 180 months, that comes to £1,674 (which includes 
£974 interest).
It seems to me that it would be fair and reasonable to require Shawbrook to refund that 
whole amount to Mr and Mrs W, either (at their option) by refunding it to them directly, or by 
reducing their outstanding balance (which would shorten the loan term).
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs W that the system would be self-funding from 
the outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely 
to have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. As I have said above, that section of 
the quote has been signed by either Mr or Mrs W, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring 
it to their attention. On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the original 
table at the meeting (which is the version that would have used the figure of £86.90 for the 
monthly loan payments).
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs W were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take ten years for the 
overall benefits that Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system.
I think the ten-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2. In fact, it is not exact, since (as will be shown below) it would take marginally longer 
than ten years. In the Putting it all together section, a timescale of 11 years is given instead 
(although ten years is actually closer to the mark). That figure appears next to two other 
figures which expressly exclude the cost of the finance. So I think it would have been clear 
that the 11-year payback time refers to the cash price, not the cost of the finance.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that just after year 10  early in year 11  the overall benefits that 
Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £7,298. (It 
gets to £7,250 at the end of year 10.)
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £15,642, 
would be reached during year 18.
This table also shows, in the first column (which is titled Panel degradation), how the 
panels will reduce in efficiency year on year. This is shown as a percentage which reduces 
each year, ending in year 20 at 83.7%. The quote also says (on page 4) that the 25 year 
warranty covers the panels for up to 90% of their original output. So Im satisfied that the 
quote did take into account that the panels would deteriorate over time, and that this would 
have been factored into the table, and into the quote generally. Im also satisfied that the 
quote made this clear to Mr and Mrs W.

As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs W that the system would pay for its 
cash price in a little over ten years, and for the loan in about 18 years, as supported by the 
excerpts above, which were included in the quote. If that is a bad bargain, that in itself does 
not prove that a misrepresentation was made. But if that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and if Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 65 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr and Mrs W.
Performance: energy generation
The original MCS certificate and revised quote both set out that the system is expected to 
produce 3,098 kWh a year; the new MCS certificate says 2,215 kWh. I have looked at Mr 
and Mrs Ws FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, has generated 
1,709 kWh a year. (It does not make much difference when the more recent meter reading is 
used instead.) This is very significantly less than either estimate (and certainly much below 
what P estimated at the point of sale), so I agree that the system is not performing as well as 
expected.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale (which would be a 
breach of contract), or if it is because the system subsequently developed a fault (which 
would not necessarily be Shawbrooks responsibility).
This issue was not raised with Shawbrook in the claim under section 75 in 2021, and so I do 
not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not having upheld that claim on this basis. 
Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Mr and Mrs W was told that the system 
was supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt. And Shawbrooks answer 
was that the quote had made it clear all along that this would not be the case. Shawbrook 
didnt have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was generating as 
much energy as P had estimated.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance, and possibly to fix it. Then, if Mr and Mrs W is still not satisfied, they may bring 
a new complaint to our service about Shawbrooks response. I am not in a position to deal 
with that issue now, except to say that Shawbrook did not mishandle Mr and Mrs Ws claim 
under section 75.
Performance: financial returns
However, I do think that Mr and Mrs Ws original section 75 claim did include a complaint to 
the effect that the system was not generating the estimated financial returns, and that the 
system had therefore been misrepresented on that basis. So I have considered whether the 
estimated financial returns were exaggerated, independently of the systems failure to 
generate as much energy as estimated.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs W havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs W could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs W entered into the 
contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr and Mrs W that the system 
would require no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the 
salesman did not tell them during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, 
but that is not the same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
And I note that the quote says (on page 4) that there is a ten year warranty on the inverter. 
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs W 
to enter into the contract for the system.My provisional decision
So I am minded to uphold this complaint in part, and to require Shawbrook to refund Mr and 
Mrs W £1,674 (in addition to Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its delay in 
responding to their complaint).
Responses to my provisional decision
Shawbrook said that Mr and Mrs W had complained directly to P about the £700 price 
difference, and that P had offered them £695.33 in full and final settlement of that complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W had accepted that offer. The CMC has confirmed that this sum was paid in 
February 2022.
I have seen the signed settlement form, which does indeed say that the payment is to be 
accepted as full and final settlement in relation to the four solar panels which were not 
installed.
I therefore think that it would not be fair and reasonable of me to interfere with that 
settlement by requiring Shawbrook to do anything else. So for that reason I do not uphold 
this complaint after all.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr and Mrs W to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 
compensation for its delay in responding to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman