DRN-2290299
The complaint
Ms B complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with an international transaction 
that she made to the wrong account.
What happened
Ms B made a payment to an account for just under £5,000 in May 2020 but used incorrect 
account details. She says she realised her mistake and spoke to Barclays and gave it the 
correct details, but the money didnt arrive in the account. Ms B says she asked for the 
money to be recalled but it wasnt and spent some time trying to find out where the money 
went. She says shes been caused distress which has impacted on her health and would like 
compensation.
Barclays says Ms B made the original mistake but accepts it then made mistakes in taking 
the correct account details and about how long it took to refund the money which took place 
on 1 July 2020. It says its offered £60 compensation and will refund the exchange rate 
difference of just over £159.
Ms B brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
both sides had made mistakes, but Barclays ought to have done more to recall the money 
quicker. The investigator recommended Barclays pay a further £100 compensation which its 
agreed to do.
Ms B doesnt accept that view and in summary says the compensation doesnt go far 
enough for what took place and for the impact on her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Barclays should pay a further £100 
compensation in addition to the compensation previously offered and refund the exchange 
rate difference. I appreciate Ms B will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no dispute here that Ms B made the original mistake in sending the money using 
incorrect account details. So, I think it likely in those circumstances that there would have 
been a delay in either sending the money to the correct account or in refunding the money to 
Ms Bs account. I also think there was a risk of an exchange rate loss if the payment couldnt 
have been made to the correct account and a risk that Ms B may not have received any of 
her money back.
I accept that Barclays didnt deal with what I accept should have been a simple issue to 
either pay the money into the correct account or refund it to Ms B. I also accept it took over a 
month for Ms B to receive her money back and that she would have spent some time in 
trying to sort matters out. And would have been caused concern and distress in not knowing 
where her money was. But Im satisfied that Barclays has fairly apologised for that and has 
acted fairly by offering to refund the exchange rate difference and by paying compensation.
I dont think the original compensation offer goes far enough and I think Barclays should pay 
a further £100 compensation which its agreed to do. I think the overall compensation 
amount is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects the level of Barclays mistake and the impact 
it had on Ms B. I cant see that Ms B has provided evidence of any financial loss and I think 
she did receive her money back.
Putting things right
I intend to order Barclays to pay a further £100 compensation in addition to its previous offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms B 
£160 compensation and pay her the exchange rate difference of £159.02. Ms Bs 
acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman