DRN-2814747
The complaint
Mr and Ms Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC is about delays in liquidating an 
investment bond.
What happened
Mr and Ms M held investments with Barclays through their discretionary investment service. 
One of their investments was a third party bond which was held in Ms Ms name. 
In January 2020 Mr and Ms M told Barclays they wanted to cash in the investment bond by 
the end of February. A Barclays adviser told Mr and Ms M the process should easily be 
completed by the end of February. 
In the event, Mr and Ms M didnt receive the funds from the bond until the end of March 
2020. Their complaint is that Barclays didnt keep their promise to liquidate the bond by the 
end of February and this caused them significant financial loss. They want Barclays to 
compensate them for that loss and the poor service they say theyve received.  
Barclays say it took seven weeks to complete the liquidation of Ms Ms bond. They advise 
customers that such a transaction would normally take between four and six weeks, but 
thats only an indication and not guaranteed. So, they think the liquidation was completed in 
a reasonable timeframe. 
Barclays have also said the email from their adviser didnt give a definite assurance that the 
process would be completed by the end of February, but they accept it might have led 
Mr and Ms M to think it could be. They have offered Mr and Ms M compensation of £150 for 
not managing their expectations appropriately. 
 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and thought the offer of compensation from 
Barclays was reasonable. Mr and Ms M disagree and have asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays provide a discretionary investment service for Mr and Ms M. As part of that service, 
they should carry out transactions in a timely way and communicate clearly to 
Mr and Ms M.
Mr and Ms M told Barclays they wanted to liquidate an investment bond. That required 
action on the part of both Barclays and the bond provider. The time taken for such a 
transaction is likely to vary according to circumstances and Ive not seen any specific 
timescales for such a process in the terms of Mr and Ms Ms account with Barclays. 
Barclays have said they advise customers that such a transaction would normally take 
between four and six weeks, but thats only an indication and not guaranteed. In this case it 
took longer than six weeks, so Ive looked at what happened to see if Barclays did anything 
wrong.
Mr and Ms M told Barclays they wanted to surrender their bond on 27 January 2020. 
After completing some checks, Barclays requested a surrender form from the bond provider 
on 29 January. They chased the provider on 10 February and by 19 February had received 
both the form and some additional information they requested. Barclays then had to carry 
out some checks before sending the surrender form and a valuation to Mr and Ms M. 
Mr M called Barclays on 26 February to say he hadnt received the paperwork and Barclays 
emailed the documents the same day. Barclays received the surrender form back from 
Mr and Ms M, completed the necessary checks and sent it on to the bond provider on 
4 March. The trades necessary to liquidate the bond were instructed on 10 March. The funds 
were transferred to Barclays on 17 March and then onto the bond provider on 19 March.
Having looked at what happened, I dont think Barclays caused avoidable delay at any stage 
in the process. They acted promptly when Mr and Ms M asked to surrender the bond, 
chased the bond provider when necessary, emailed the paperwork when Mr and Ms M 
hadnt received it and returned the form promptly to the provider. So, although the surrender 
took more than six weeks to complete, I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays were 
responsible for any delays.  
But the process did take longer than Mr and Ms M were led to believe it would by their 
Barclays adviser. When Mr M emailed Barclays on 27 January 2020 to request the surrender 
of the bond he said they would like to do this in the next couple of weeks and certainly have 
it completed by the end of February. Following a conversation with Mr M, the Barclays 
adviser emailed him on 31 January to explain the process and said it should be easily 
completed by the end of February.
So, the adviser told Mr M the surrender of the bond should easily be completed within four 
weeks, which is at the lower end of what Barclays say the process would normally take.  
Barclays have said the adviser didnt give a definite assurance that the process would be 
completed by the end of February and the four to six weeks timetable they would normally 
work to is not guaranteed. 
I note what Barclays have said about their adviser not giving a guarantee. But Mr M had 
asked for the process to be completed by the end of February and I think it was reasonable 
for him to take the advisers email as confirmation that it would be. So, I think Barclays gave 
Mr and Ms M inaccurate information which they relied on.
Mr and Ms M say they have suffered significant financial loss because the value of the bond 
fell in the weeks during which the surrender was being processed. They would like Barclays 
to compensate them for that loss.
The value of an investment of this kind is always likely to change between the instruction to 
surrender being given and the process being completed. Before asking Barclays to 
compensate Mr and Ms M for any fall in the value of the bond, I would need to be satisfied 
that Barclays were responsible for delaying the surrender and that the delay had caused 
Mr and Ms M loss. 
But Ive already concluded that, although the surrender took slightly longer than would 
normally be expected, Barclays were not responsible for any avoidable delay. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say that Barclays should compensate Mr and Ms M 
in the way they have suggested. 
Barclays did however give Mr M inaccurate information. So, I think they are responsible for 
the distress caused to Mr and Ms M when it became clear the surrender would not be 
completed as quickly as they had been led to believe. Ive considered everything that Mr and 
Ms M have said, but overall, I think the £150 compensation Barclays have offered is fair and 
reasonable. 
   
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr and Ms M, but I wont be asking Barclays 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Barclays Bank UK PLCs 
offer to pay Mr and Ms M £150 in compensation to be fair and reasonable. That is in addition 
to any payment Barclays make for the time taken to respond to Mr and Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman