DRN-2843002
The complaint
Mr K complains that I Go 4 Ltd. (IGO4) has provided him with an inaccurate schedule of 
insurance.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In March 2021 Mr Ks motor insurance policy was offered and renewed for a cost of 
£598.91. 
Upon review of his paperwork, he noticed his policy schedule instead showed a cost 
of £571.92. He questioned this with IGO4.
It said the sums were correct, and the additional cost of £26.99 was for optional 
motor legal protection which was provided by a different insurer  so wasnt reflected 
within the schedule he referenced. 
Mr K complained  saying this was unclear and misleading
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said the 
difference in information had been explained by IGO4 and there had been no impact 
on him in any case as the cost was accurate. She also said it was outside of the 
scope of our service to direct IGO4 to change its processes.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) section 2.2.2 
requires insurers to communicate in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
Mr K doesnt believe IGO4 has presented information fairly as his renewal quote did 
not match with the schedule he subsequently received. 
From what Ive seen, Mr K hasnt disputed that he received any renewal 
documentation quoting the figure of £598.91. So, it seems to me that he was aware 
of the cost of cover when agreeing to renew. And Ive seen nothing to suggest hes 
unhappy with the optional motor legal protection that hes taken. Meaning he was 
aware of the cost and level of cover taken. 
Mr Ks simply unhappy with the documentation hes been provided with. Im satisfied 
IGO4 has explained why there are differences between documents. And I can 
understand why the additional motor legal cover provided by a separate insurer 
wasnt included within the schedule. For these reasons Im satisfied IGO4 hasnt 
done anything wrong, and Im not directing it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman