DRN-3769856
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt do enough to help him when he was the victim of 
an alleged scam. 
Mr M is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill only 
refer to Mr M in my decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr M says, in 2020 he was contacted by a third-party asking him to move money from HM 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) through his TSB account. Mr M explained that at the time 
his friend had sadly just passed and the third-party was his deceased friends relative, so he 
agreed to help. The third party said he needed to claim some money back from HMRC, but 
he needed to do this in Mr Ms name. Mr M gave the third-party his Unique Tax Reference 
(UTR) number so that a tax return could be completed in Mr Ms name. Mr M was then 
offered around £4,000 of the money from HMRC by the third-party for his help with the tax-
return. 
On 27 July, 29 July and 6 August 2020 Mr M received a total of three payments from HMRC 
totalling around £24,000. Mr M then moved this money to the third-party in eleven 
transactions, from 27 July to 6 August 2020, ranging from £1,100 to £3,000 and kept around 
£4,000 for himself for the help he had given the third party.  
Mr M then started to receive letters from HMRC asking for the money back. So, in November 
2021 Mr M contacted TSB to raise a complaint and to ask it to try and recover the money 
hed sent. He also asked for his loss to be covered under TSBs fraud guarantee. TSB 
couldnt recover any of the money and said that Mr M wasnt covered by its fraud guarantee 
because at the time the money was moved out of his account it wasnt his. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. He said the transactions were out of character 
and shouldve been stopped by TSB. And that the money he is now having to repay HMRC 
should be refunded to him by TSB under its fraud guarantee. He added that he was 
vulnerable at the time due to the loss of his friend. 
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think the 
payments were particularly unusual so that TSB ought to have intervened and asked more 
questions of Mr M at the time. And even if TSB had intervened, he wasnt satisfied any line 
of questioning wouldve stopped Mr M from asking for the payments to be sent. Thats 
because Mr M was told by the third-party to tell the bank that the money was for a holiday. 
The Investigator added that he didnt think the fraud guarantee should apply to the payments 
as the money didnt belong to him and shouldnt have passed through his account. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that he received the money 
innocently and had been tricked by the third-party into moving the funds through his account. 
He thought the tax return was legitimate. He considers the funds that moved through his 
account to be his as HMRC is reclaiming the money from him. Mr M added that he reported 
this scam to the Police and his bank. And that he has been proactive in trying to resolve the 
issue directly with HMRC. He said the fraud guarantee is clear that if youre an innocent 
victim of fraud on your TSB account you are covered for the money lost. And that he was 
tricked into receiving funds that he thought were legitimate. So, TSB needed to show that he 
wasnt innocent if it wanted to continue to refuse to refund this money.
I wrote to Mr M informally to explain why I wasnt minded to uphold his complaint. In 
summary I said that I didnt consider it necessary to make a finding on whether TSB ought to 
have intervened as I wasnt persuaded that an intervention wouldve made a difference in 
the circumstances. I also concluded that under the specific circumstances of this case TSBs 
decision to decline Mr Ms claim under its fraud guarantee was fair and reasonable.  
Mr M continued to disagree. He said he shouldnt be treated like a fraudster and maintained 
that he is an innocent victim because he hasnt been charged by the police or been found 
guilty by a court. And because of the alleged scam, he now has a significant debt to HMRC. 
He added that TSB cant rely on its exclusion to decline his claim under its fraud guarantee 
as there is no evidence that he was involved in committing the fraud. He doesnt think that a 
finding of a reasonable basis of belief applies to the TSB guarantee.
TSB added that it declined the claim because it believes, on balance, Mr M was likely 
involved in what happened which is excluded from its fraud guarantee. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr Ms said that he isnt experienced in these matters (due to being employed and not 
having to complete tax returns) and agreed for a tax return to be completed in his name after 
he was told by the third party that another UTR number was needed in order for the third 
party to claim back some tax he was owed. The third party also told Mr M he could keep 
around £4,000 and to place references on the payments of holiday or Mexico so these 
wouldnt be stopped by the bank. 
TSB said that one of the exclusions on its fraud guarantee says;
As youd expect, we will not pay losses where customers are involved in committing the 
fraud.
It also added that Mr M had breached the terms and conditions of his account by allowing 
someone to move money (that wasnt his) illegally through his account. I understand Mr M hasnt been found guilty in a court of a crime in relation to this issue, but 
my first consideration here is to decide whether TSB have acted unfairly in declining Mr Ms 
request for a refund under its fraud guarantee. In reaching this decision I must consider all 
the evidence provided by both parties and the wider circumstances. 
I can understand why Mr M has interpreted the fraud guarantee exclusion in the way that he 
has, but I dont think the guarantee intends that the claimant needs to have been convicted 
for the exclusion to apply. 
The matter Im deciding is not a criminal one (better suited for Police and Courts)  which I 
appreciate is decided on the basis of beyond reasonable doubt. Im considering a complaint 
against TSB and whether its decision to not issue refund under its guarantee is fair and 
reasonable in the specific circumstances of this case. Or if there is any other basis upon 
which it would be fair for me to ask TSB to refund Mr Ms loss.
Mr M says the conversations he had with the third party at the time the alleged fraud took 
place happened over a social media platform and that these messages are no longer 
available. He also hasnt had any further contact with the third party. So, Mr Ms case is 
mostly based on his testimony.  
Having thought about the other evidence that is available and the wider circumstances. I can 
see that a tax accountant has confirmed that the tax return was completed in Mr Ms name 
claiming that hed overpaid on his taxes. But I must also take into consideration that Mr M 
has confirmed that he was aware that the tax return was being completed in his name, 
despite him not being self-employed. He gave his UTR number to the third party knowing 
that he wasnt entitled to a refund. Which means that he knowingly accepted money from 
HMRC (and what I consider to be a large payment from the third-party to do so) into his 
account that wasnt his. 
Ive considered Mr Ms points about him being vulnerable at the time due to the loss of his 
friend. But I dont think  on balance - TSB unfairly decided Mr M was more likely than not 
involved in the fraud here. And I dont think I cant say with certainty that Mr M has been the 
victim of a scam  due to the lack of evidence. So, having weighed up the evidence that has 
been provided, Ive reached the conclusion that  on balance  it suggests its more likely 
than not that Mr M may have been involved and may know more than whats been shared. 
So, TSB hasnt treated Mr B unfairly by declining his claim under its guarantee. And it follows 
that its not necessary for me to consider whether TSB couldve done more to prevent the 
payments at the time.  
As a result, Im not persuaded that TSB has treated Mr M unfairly in declining his fraud 
guarantee claim. 
So, Im not going to ask TSB to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman