DRN-2854198
The complaint
Mr H says The Share Centre Limited (TSCL) undertook the administration of his portfolio in 
September 2019 but failed to maintain the instruction he had in place, with its predecessor, 
to reinvest dividend income. Instead, dividend income was held in a cash account. He 
complained about this in February 2020.
What happened
TSCL disputes the complaint. It made the following main submissions to this service:
In April 2019, prior to administration of Mr Hs account(s) being transferred to TSCL, 
the transferor firm sent him notice about the impending transfer which included a 
questions and answers section; one question was about the treatment of investment 
income and the associated answer included the following  In the case of The Share 
Centre this will be added to your account as cash. After a transfer of your account to 
The Share Centre, you will need to set up new income preferences They will contact 
you with more details on the options to either reinvest, pay to a bank account in your 
name or hold it as cash on your account.
As the above notice said, TSCL contacted Mr H after the transfer. It wrote to him on 
28 September 2019 and under the sub-heading titled Managing your dividends it 
confirmed that the default setting in this respect was retained  the retained setting 
 and that he could change that setting, if he wished, by selecting from three options. 
The first was the option to reinvest dividends into the same company that paid the 
dividends; the second was the option to leave the dividends in the TSCL cash 
account; and the third was to withdraw dividends into his bank account. Mr H made 
no selection at the time and the retained setting remained.
In January 2020 Mr H had a lengthy telephone conversation with TSCL which began 
with discussion about a corporate action matter and then moved into a general 
discussion. Within the latter, the matter of dividend income was mentioned by the 
TSCL official who informed Mr H that the retained setting remained and reminded 
him about the three options available to him. In response, he confirmed that he would 
keep the retained setting as it was while he discussed the options with his wife.
In February 2020 Mr H contacted TSCL by telephone again and initially discussed an 
online logging in matter. He then referred to the dividend cash retention setting and 
expressed dissatisfaction with it  which is what led to his complaint. However, 
despite this he still did not select the reinvestment option until 22 April 2020.
Overall, Mr H received ample notices about the dividend cash retention setting and 
his options to change it. He chose not to do so until he did so. TSCL is not 
responsible for the matter.
In the main, Mr H says TSCLs September 2019 notice was either unclear or misleading, and 
that it breached the regulators requirement for firms to communicate with clients in a 
manner that is clear, fair and not misleading. He says the notice did not clarify that the word 
retention meant retaining dividend in his TSCL cash account and that he was misled into 
believing that the word retention referred to retaining his previous instruction  to the 
transferor firm  to reinvest dividend income, so he reasonably expected that practice to 
continue. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. Overall, he did not consider that TSCLs notice was unclear or misleading, and he 
noted that if there was any confusion on Mr Hs part, he could have contacted TSCL to 
clarify the process. 
Mr H disagreed with this outcome, he maintained his core submissions and urged the 
investigator to reconsider the recordings of the telephone conversations he had with TSCL. 
He believed they would support his case and said TSCL told him over the telephone  that 
the flag on the system was set to reinvest dividends . The investigator did so and 
confirmed that the recordings did not support the complaint and did not alter his view. Mr H 
then asked for an ombudsmans decision and for an adjustment by way of a decision in an 
alternative format and a telephone call from the ombudsman. The investigator confirmed that 
a decision would be sent to him in writing and in an alternative format.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Hs adjustment request. The investigator has confirmed that this decision will be 
made available to him in writing and in the alternative format he has asked for. If his request 
for a telephone call from the ombudsman relates to conveying this decision, I am satisfied 
that the relevant alternative format serves that purpose. 
If the request seeks discussion of this decision, Mr H should be informed that such a 
discussion is not part of this services process. An ombudsman reaches his or her decision 
mainly on the basis of applicable laws, the regulators rules (and guidance) and the balance 
of evidence available in a case. Consensus with either or both parties in a complaint is not 
required in this respect. The ombudsmans remit is to make an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision. I am satisfied that the body of evidence available in Mr Hs complaint is 
enough to determine it. Furthermore, both parties appear to have exhausted their 
submissions and neither party has referred to missing evidence.
In straightforward terms, the submissions made by TSCL are, in the main, supported by 
evidence and the balance of available evidence does not support the claims made by Mr H.
The actual notice allegedly sent by the transferor firm to Mr H in April 2019 does not appear 
to be available. A file copy of the letter (and the attached questions and answers section) 
has been shared with us and Mr H does not appear to dispute receiving it. If, as it appears, 
he received this notice then it must have given him initial notice that dividend income would 
be held as cash in his TSCL account unless he expressly instructed otherwise. As TSCL 
says, the questions and answers section of the notice confirmed this.
Perhaps more important are what Mr H was told in the written notice directly from TSCL in 
September 2019 (his receipt of which is conceded) and in the telephone discussion he held 
with TSCL in January 2020 (which is evidenced in the recording of this discussion). I do not 
accept that the former misled him and his reaction in the latter conveyed no surprise  or 
dissatisfaction  about the fact that his dividend income was being retained in a cash 
account.
The relevant section of the September 2019 notice was about managing dividends, which 
was the only subject matter of this section. If Mr H received the April 2019 notice he would 
have known that previous arrangements were irrelevant. If he had not received the April 
2019 notice, it is reasonably clear from the relevant section in the September 2019 notice that its reference to the retained setting was a reference to how his dividend income would 
be treated. Without the mention of continuing a previous arrangement, it is reasonable to 
conclude that the retained setting could only have meant that his dividend income would be 
retained  and not reinvested. Without such mention, there was no context for the notion that 
retained meant continuation of the previous arrangement.
I accept Mr Hs point that the notice did not specify retention in a cash account, but the more 
important point is that the retained setting did not specify or suggest in any way 
reinvestment of dividend income. This was enough to notify Mr H that if reinvestment of 
dividend income was what he wanted he needed to ask for that, because the retained setting 
did not instruct that; and as TSCL has pointed out, the notice immediately proceeded to give 
him three option  in simple and clear terms  to choose from.
The above findings are supported by the contents of the recording for the telephone 
conversation Mr H had with TSCL in January 2020. Indeed, the first part of the conversation 
was about a corporate event issue. Thereafter and as part of their general discussion, the 
TSCL official referred to his accounts setting for the treatment of dividend income, 
commented that the default retained setting was in place, expressly stated that this meant 
his dividend income would be held in a cash account and asked Mr H if he wished to change 
that. There was no ambiguity in this exchange. Mr H was explicitly told that dividend income 
was being retained in a cash account, and not reinvested. In response, he expressed neither 
surprise nor disagreement. Instead, he affirmed (and reaffirmed) that the retained setting 
should be kept as it was until he considered with his wife whether (or not) to change it. 
Contrary to what Mr H said, I found no part of this recording in which TSCL told him  that 
the flag on the system was set to reinvest dividends . 
The recording for the telephone conversation Mr H had with TSCL in February 2020 includes 
his reference to and disagreement with the retained setting. However, he declined TSCLs 
invitation to lodge a formal complaint about the matter during the call, and it appears that he 
confirmed his complaint (the present complaint) at a point thereafter. More importantly, the 
TSCL official twice invited him to instruct a change to the retained setting if he wished and 
he declined each time. Again, he sought time to consider before giving such an instruction, 
and I note TSCLs evidence that he did not change the setting until around two months later 
in April 2020.
The sum (and balance) of available evidence is that if, as it appears, Mr H received the 
transferor firms notice in April 2019 he was aware of the default retained setting even before 
his account transferred to TSCL; whether (or not) he received that notice, he certainly 
received the September 2019 notice which gave the same message, alongside the three 
dividend management options he could choose from; over the next four months and up to 
January 2020 he could have but did not change this setting; he had an opportunity to do so 
in this month but chose not to; he had another opportunity to do so in February 2020 (the 
same month he complained about the matter) but, again, chose not to do so; and he does 
not appear to have done so until around two months later.  Overall, on balance and for these 
reasons (and those earlier above) I do not consider that there is merit in Mr Hs complaint, 
and I do not uphold it.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 Roy Kuku
Ombudsman