DRN-3546311
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Clydesdale
Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) was misrepresented
to him and was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
Mr H has been represented by his solicitors but for ease, and because Mr H is named on the
finance agreement, I will refer only to him in this decision.
Mr H took receipt of a used car in May 2019. He financed the deal through a conditional sale
agreement with BPF. The car was about four years old when supplied and the invoice
suggested it had already covered 30,128 miles.
In March 2020, 16,000 miles and 10 months later, the engine failed catastrophically. Mr H
identified a problem with the odometer reading. He noticed that the car had a recorded
mileage of 38,951 in December 2017 but that during the MOT in May 2018 the cars mileage
had been recorded as less than that and at 28,807 miles. He said that suggested the cars
odometer had been rewound and that the car had therefore been misrepresented to him. He
explained that as the car only needed a service every year or every 16,000 miles (whichever
came first) he had not believed a service was required until May 2019. He suggested that
the misrepresentation had therefore led him to not service the car properly and had been the
cause of the engine failure.
He also said that the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality. He provided an independent
inspection report to support that claim. The inspector noted that the engine was seized and
thought that was probably due to crankshaft failure. He said the oil in the car was of a very
poor quality and thought the oil would have been in that condition when the car was supplied
to Mr H. He also reviewed the service and MOT history and noted the mileage discrepancy
suggested there had been some alteration to the odometer.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded she had been provided with enough evidence to suggest
the mileage had been misrepresented to Mr H, but she was persuaded by the independent
inspectors comments that the car had probably been supplied in an unsatisfactory condition.
She therefore suggested that BPF should allow Mr H to reject the car.
BPF didnt agree with the investigators view. They noted that the inspector had identified an
oil leak when he completed his inspection and they suggested Mr H would therefore have
needed to top up the oil at some point. It was their assertion that Mr H had therefore added
the incorrect grade of oil and that had contributed to the engine failing. They said if the oil
was of such poor quality when the car was supplied they would have expected it to have
failed earlier. They didnt think there was sufficient evidence to support rejection of the car
and they therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BPF, but I agree with the investigators view that the car was of
unsatisfactory quality. The inspector didnt think the car had also been misrepresented but,
as I do, I am issuing this provisional decision. Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes
out the credit agreement.
So, If Mr H was given a false statement of fact by the dealership and if that false statement
of fact led him to enter into an agreement that he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I
would think the goods had been misrepresented to him and Id ask BPF to take some further
action.
In 2017 the mileage reported to the National Mileage Register (NMR) by the dealership that
had the car at the time, was 31,228 in April and 38,951 in December. That had reduced in
May 2018 when during an MOT the mileage was reported to be 28,807.
The inspector has suggested that is a clear indication that the odometer has been altered
and Id agree that seems most likely. The mileage was reported to the NMR by a dealership
who I think its fair to say would be familiar with the requirement to report in miles, and also
familiar with the units used in the odometer display. I think its unlikely theyd get the mileage
wrong and even more unlikely theyd get it wrong twice.
So, I think Mr H was given a false statement of fact about the mileage the car had completed
so Ill go on to consider if I think Mr H would have proceeded with the deal had he not been
given a false statement of fact. I dont think he would have as I think its likely he would have
challenged the price of the car had it had a higher mileage, especially as that mileage was
likely to be significantly more than was reported to him.
So, I think there has been a misrepresentation here and in those circumstances we would
usually try to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in had they not
entered into the agreement. Before I explain how Im expecting to ask BPF to do that Ill also
consider whether I think this car has been of satisfactory quality.
Was the car of satisfactory quality?The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. That says, amongst other things,
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BPF,
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other
relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. The car here was about
four years old and the NMR mileage records would suggest it had completed in excess of
38,951 when supplied. I think a reasonable person would expect some wear and tear on a
car of that age and mileage.
But I dont think theyd expect the engine to fail catastrophically after only 10 months. The
relevant legislation says that when we consider if a car has been of satisfactory quality we
should also consider whether its been durable. I dont think this car has been durable as I
think a reasonable person would expect an engine to last significantly longer than this one
has.
BPF suggest that Mr H has contributed to the failure by adding the wrong oil and by not
servicing the car correctly, but the independent, expert engineer disagrees. It is his opinion
that the condition of the oil in the engine at the time of purchase and coupled with the
dubious service history is the most likely cause of failure.
The inspector is an expert in these matters, and Ive found his report compelling and well 
reasoned.
I think its therefore likely that this car was provided with oil that was of an unacceptable 
standard and that it was therefore of unsatisfactory quality.
So, because I think this agreement was misrepresented to Mr H and because the car was of
unsatisfactory quality, I think BPF should allow him to reject the car.
Putting things right
BPF will need to end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr H. Theyll
also need to refund his deposit and add interest to that refund as hes been deprived of the
money.
Mr H was able to drive over 15,000 miles in the car until it failed in March 2020. So, I think
he had reasonable use of the car up until that point and I therefore think it would be fair for
BPF to retain any finance instalments he paid until the car broke down. Thereafter, they will
need to refund any finance instalments that have been paid by Mr H, or waive any that were
due but havent been paid. They should add interest to any refund.
Mr H has also had to commission an independent inspection. He wouldnt have had to do
that if the car he had had been of satisfactory quality so BPF should refund those
consequential costs if Mr H can provide them with the receipt.
I understand that Mr H would like his legal costs refunding. It was for Mr H to decide whether
to incur those costs and I dont think he had to. I think the process we ask consumers to
follow to register a complaint with this service is simple and I therefore think Mr H could have
mitigated those cost. Im not expecting to ask BPF to refund them.
If Mr H has incurred costs to keep the car insured or taxed whilst its been awaiting repairs I
would think they were costs that were incurred as a consequence of the cars failure and Itherefore expect to ask BPF to refund them if Mr H can provide receipts.
Mr H has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to escalate his complaint to
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and hes had to commission an
independent report and seek professional advice. In the circumstances I think BPF should
pay him £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I expect to uphold this complaint and to tell Clydesdale
Financial Services Limited to:
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr H.
Retain any finance instalments paid up until 20 March 2020 when the car broke
down. Refund all the other instalments and add 8% simple interest per year from the
date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of the independent inspection report and any diagnostics upon
provision of the receipts from Mr H. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Provide a pro-rata refund of any car insurance or road tax if Mr H can provide
receipts. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
Refund any deposit paid adding 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the
date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Hs credit file in relation to
this issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF didnt have any further information to add but Mr H did. He thought BPF should pay him 
more compensation and explained that hed been put under immense stress over a two-year 
period. He detailed that stress and explained that his wife had been left stranded; hed made 
thousands of calls at a time when the family was recovering from the loss of Mrs Hs father 
and when Mr H was recovering from illness. 
Mr H also disputed my view that legal costs shouldnt be recoverable explaining that it wasnt 
possible to get support during the pandemic. 
I was sorry to hear of the difficult and distressing time Mr H and his family had experienced 
but having considered all of the circumstances and the level of award this service would 
usually suggest I am not minded to increase the level of compensation.
Ive thought about whether to allow Mr Hs legal costs. It was for Mr H to decide whether
to incur those costs and I still dont think he had to. I think the process we ask consumers to
follow to register a complaint with this service is simple and the vast majority of claims 
proceed without the need for legal advice. I think Mr Hs legal costs could therefore have 
been mitigated. 
Mr H has explained that there was an additional expense to have the car recovered to the 
garage. He says this cost £200. If Mr H can provide a copy of the receipt for that recovery I 
think it is a cost that BPF will need to refund to him as it will have been incurred as a 
consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory quality.Putting things right
Having considered the additional information provided by Mr H I am not persuaded to 
change my provisional decision other than to order BPF to refund recovery costs of £200 if 
Mr H can furnish them with the receipt for that recovery. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to:
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr H.
Retain any finance instalments paid up until 20 March 2020 when the car broke
down. Refund all the other instalments and add 8% simple interest per year from the
date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of the independent inspection report and any diagnostics upon
provision of the receipts from Mr H. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Provide a pro-rata refund of any car insurance or road tax if Mr H can provide
receipts. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
Refund any deposit paid adding 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the
date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Hs credit file in relation to
this issue.
Refund the consequential recovery costs of £200 if Mr H can provide the receipt. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman