DRN-4108581
The complaint
Miss S says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss S took out a 24-month instalment loan for £1,200 on 22 November 2021. The monthly
repayments were £161.66 and the total repayable was £3,878.40. Miss S is now in a debt 
management plan (DMP).
Miss S says Loans 2 Go did not complete proper checks; the loan was unaffordable for her. 
The lender also continued to take the full contractual repayment as well as the reduced 
payment via her DMP administrator each month. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Ss complaint in part. He issued two assessments; I will focus 
here on the most recent. He agreed the lending was irresponsible as Loans 2 Gos checks 
were not proportionate and better checks would have shown the loan would not be 
sustainably affordable for Miss S. However, he found that there was no evidence Loans 2 
Go had been taking contractual payments after having agreed to accept reduced monthly 
payments as part of Miss Ss DMP.
Miss S accepted this assessment, but added payments from her DMP have been made so 
she is now concerned where they have gone. Loans 2 Go disagreed that it had lent 
irresponsibly. It said it completed adequate checks that showed the loan would be affordable 
for Miss S. Miss Ss credit check showed she was managing her existing credit without 
problems and so further checks were not necessary. It acknowledged there was some 
adverse data but this would be expected based on the type of lending it provides. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Miss S required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss S. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Miss S. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Miss Ss loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Miss S before it approved the loan. It
asked for her monthly income which she said was £2,350. It checked her declared income 
using an income verification tool and reduced it accordingly to £1,846.70. It estimated her 
monthly expenditure to be £1,499.90 using both national statistics and the credit 
commitments it could see on the credit check it completed. From these checks
combined Loans 2 Go concluded Miss S had enough disposable income for the loan to be
affordable.
Whilst I think these checks were initially proportionate, once Loans 2 Go had the results of 
the credit check I think it ought to have carried out a fuller financial review. I say this as it 
could see Miss Ss credit utilisation was 100%, and this had increased significantly over the 
last six months from 40%; she had recent arrears and had taken out two new loans in the 
last four months. Miss S also had a history of using payday loans. So, in the round, I think 
there were possible indicators of financial pressure. I am not saying these factors on their 
own meant Loans 2 Go should not have lent to Miss S, rather that it should have looked 
more closely at her financial situation before proceeding. 
Loans 2 Go disagrees, arguing its checks showed Miss S had enough disposable income. 
But it was required to go beyond pounds and pence checks and get the assurances it 
needed that the repayments would not be financially detrimental to Miss S in any way. It was 
also aware that Miss S had declared a higher level of income and a lower level of 
expenditure than its checks showed which ought to have been another reason for verifying 
her actual financial position.
In cases like this we review bank statements from the three months prior to the loan 
application. I am not saying Loans 2 Go had to do this, but it is a way for me to recreate what 
better checks would most likely have shown. The statements show that Miss S was struggling financially, and her essential outgoings exceeded her income. As the investigator 
set out, Miss C was borrowing on average £800 a month and repaying £985 to her various 
creditors - so it is a fair assumption that she would most likely need to borrow to repay this 
additional debt. There is no evidence this loan was for debt consolidation which might have 
changed this picture  the purpose was recorded as other at application. So had Loans 2 
Go carried out better checks it would have realised there was a high risk the loan would not 
be sustainably affordable for Miss S.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give this loan to Miss S.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont find it did. Miss S said Loans 2 Go had been taking both her contractual repayment 
and a reduced payment via her DMP.  I can see Miss Ss last contractual payment was 
taken on 29 July 2022 and on that same date Miss C emailed to cancel her continuous 
payment authority. This was done by 10 August 2022. Her loan statement of account does 
not show any other credits in the form of a reduced payment either before or after this date. 
And Loans 2 Go has evidenced whilst it agreed to breathing space via her DMP 
administrator, it has never agreed to a reduced payment onto the account. So based on the 
available evidence I cant see that Loans 2 Go has been taking two payments. 
As our investigator advised, Miss S should contact her DMP administrator and ask it to trace 
the payments. If it transpires Loans 2 Go has acted in error, rather than the administrator, 
she should raise a new complaint to allow it to investigate.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Miss S to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
Loans 2 Go should now:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments 
Miss S made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ss loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Miss Ss loan account results in there being an outstanding capital 
balance Loans 2 Go must try to agree an affordable payment plan with Miss S via her 
DMP administrator.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to the
loan once any capital owing is repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ss complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman