DRN-3504958
The complaint
Ms K says Progressive Money Limited (PML) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms K took out a 5-year instalment loan for £11,000 from PML on 20 September 2017. The
monthly repayments were £359.51 and the total repayable was £21,558.80.
Ms K says she had difficulty controlling her spending at the time and the loan became
unaffordable.
Our adjudicator found that Ms Ks complaint should be upheld. He said PMLs checks were
proportionate but that it did not make a fair lending decision based on the information it
gathered.
PML said its assessment showed Ms K would be able to afford the loan repayments in a
sustainable manner. It disagreed with a number of the adjudicators findings and asked for
an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator and so issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any 
comments to me by 26 May 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see PML asked for certain information from Ms K before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of her income and living expenses. And it validated these by obtaining her recent
bank statements and payslips for both her jobs. It also checked her credit file to understand
her existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It asked about the purpose of the
loan which was debt consolidation. It further investigated its findings on calls with Ms K prior
to approving the loan. From these checks combined PML concluded the loan was affordable
for Ms K.
Im satisfied the checks were proportionate. And I currently think PML made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
When Ms K applied to PML it was clear she was having problems managing her money. She
had multiple payday loans, credit card debt and was persistently reliant on her overdraft. But
she was taking out this loan to settle all her other unsecured debt. It would allow her to break
the cycle of payday lending she had been trapped in since April 2017. And so reduce her
monthly credit commitments. PML asked why she was in this position and Ms K gave the
plausible explanation that she had needed to support a pregnant family member for a period
of time.
PML settled all Ms Ks outstanding debt directly with the multiple other lenders, paying the
balance into the overdrawn current account to repay that too. So it could be sure her loan
was used for the intended purpose.
Its affordability assessment showed that giving this loan would leave Ms K with £179 of
monthly disposable income  and I find its calculations were fair, if not prudent. It knew from
payslips Ms Ks income was £1,590 and it calculated her living expenses were £1,051.
Within this PML allowed for Ms K making the full monthly mortgage payment and covering
100% of all household bills, despite a family member co-habiting and contributing. So at the
point of this application, and given the purpose of the loan, I dont think PML ought to have
thought it was most likely the loan would be unaffordable for Ms K.
I am aware that Ms K went on to have financial difficulties, and I am sorry shes had to
struggle, but I cant fairly find they were as a result of PMLs loan. It follows I dont think PML
was wrong to give this loan to Ms K.
I havent seen any evidence PML treated Ms K unfairly or unreasonable in some other way.
Ms K disagreed with this assessment saying her bank statements showed gambling and this 
had increased, also that she was having huge problems managing her money; the 
breakdown of expenditure wasnt verified  the average household spending was closer to 
£400 than £170. This loan increased her indebtedness significantly.
PML did not respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our 
website and Ive followed it here.
Ive carefully considered Ms Ks comments, but they dont change my conclusion. Ill explain 
why.
Ms K says her bank statements showed she was having problems managing her money. I 
accept this and acknowledged it in my provisional decision, but she was taking out this loan 
to settle all her other unsecured debt. It would allow her to break the cycle of payday lending 
she had been trapped in since April 2017. And so reduce her monthly credit commitments.
PML settled all Ms Ks outstanding debt directly with the multiple other lenders, paying the
balance into the overdrawn current account to repay that too. So it could be sure her loan
was used for the intended purpose. So as the loan was to help her resolve her current 
money problems I disagree that their existence was a reason not to lend.
Ms K also said the statements showed gambling, but it was at a very low and seemingly 
controlled level (less than £25 a month) so I dont think that would have been a fair reason 
not to lend. She said this went on to increase but I cannot fairly expect PML to have 
anticipated this.
Ms K said her living expenditure was not checked and was not £170, but closer to £400. But 
PML used the figure of £1,051 (or £540 excluding housing costs) so I disagree it was 
unverified and understated. She raised specifically that there was no electricity included but 
£100 was allocated to gas and her bank statements showed a total spend on utilities of 
£68.10 on average each month so again I dont think PMLs figures are understated.It follows I remain of the view that PMLs checks were proportionate and its lending decision 
was fair.
Overall, I dont think PML irresponsibly lent to Ms K.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman