DRN-2931705
The complaint
Mr M says he was misadvised into placing funds into two investment bonds by an adviser 
from Openwork Limited in 2020.  
What happened
Mr M attended his local Newcastle Building Society in January 2020. He was an existing 
customer of the Building Society and says he had recently received some funds from a 
different business and was looking to place these into one or more fixed rate bonds. Mr M 
says he did not want to receive any financial advice, but despite this he was referred to an 
Openwork adviser in branch.  
Three further meetings between Mr M and the adviser took place in February 2020. As a 
result of those meetings it was agreed to place £630,000 into two investments  one was a 
£350,000 top up of his existing Prudential Investment bond and the other was to invest 
£270,000 into a new bond in the same Prudential Fund. At Mr Ms request, this was later 
amended to £280,000. 
Due to the downturn in the economic climate at that time, the fund fell in value notably  so, 
Mr M cancelled the new investment within the 30 days cooling off period. 
Mr M complained. He said he told the adviser he didnt want any long-term investments or 
any with exposure to stocks and shares because of his age. Further, he said he had 
experience of the Prudential fund and wasnt happy with its performance. He also explained 
that he had not been told that adviser fees were not refundable, and the return of his funds 
took too long. 
Openwork rejected the complaint in May 2020. It said Mr M had agreed to meet with the 
adviser almost two weeks after they were first introduced. It felt he had ample opportunity to 
refuse to meet with the adviser if he had decided he didnt want to go ahead. It also said that 
the amount invested had been altered as per Mr Ms suggestion. 
Further, Openwork explained that Mr M was familiar with the investment, having already held 
funds within the Prudential Fund. It felt that given Mr Ms circumstances and history, he was 
able to agree to invest additional and new capital into a fund he had experience with. 
Though Mr M said now that he should have had other people present at the meetings, it was 
expressly recorded on the correspondence that he had declined this.  
Mr M then lodged the complaint with this service. He explained that he was an elderly 
vulnerable consumer, and despite Openworks suggestion, care should have been afforded 
to him  such as having family at the relevant meetings. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should succeed. Looking at the 
refunded investment, he noted that the delay was because Openwork awaited confirmation 
forms from Mr M before it could return the invested funds. However, when it did so, the fund 
value had recovered and Mr M was paid £922.35 more than he had invested. Therefore he 
had not made any loss on the deduction of adviser fees. The investigator did not think 
Openwork should do anything further.  
In respect of the advice to invest the other funds in a top up to Mr Ms existing Prudential 
bond, the investigator didnt think that advice was unsuitable either. He noted the adviser 
had four separate meetings with Mr M, and time was given between each one to reflect on 
the advice. Further, Mr M had proactively requested to amend the sum being topped up. 
The investigator said he didnt feel that the evidence showed Mr M was forced or misled into 
entering into the investment. He noted while the advice did leave Mr M with a lot of money 
invested in one fund, this had already been the case, yet Mr M had asked to increase the 
amount of the investment. He felt given Mr Ms circumstances and other available capital 
that the advice was suitable in the circumstances.  
Mr M disagreed. He said he had to have a heated argument with Openwork to recover the 
funds from the new investment, yet it took some five months to resolve. As it was, he lost 
£2,800 in fees and these should be returned to him. In respect of the top up, he said the 
adviser had told him that a return of 4.5% could be achieved, and this was clearly untrue.  
Mr M also explained that he did not cause a delay, and Openwork was referring to letters 
that it never sent him. Its actions had prevented him from investing the money elsewhere. He 
felt that the adviser had gate-crashed his meeting with the Building Society, and continued to 
place undue pressure on him to carry out investments that he didnt want or need. 
Openwork didnt have any other comments to make. The complaint has now been passed to 
me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint should 
not succeed. I know this wont be the outcome Mr M has hoped for, but Ill summarise my 
reasons below so he can understand why Ive reached this decision.  
I realise Mr M feels strongly that the adviser unduly pressured him into placing money into 
his existing and the new Prudential bonds. I have no reason to dispute Mr Ms recollection, 
and I can see he has gone into some detail about what happened at the time. However, 
whilst this evidence is something I take into account, I must also weigh up Openworks 
version of events  its adviser has supplied a written statement that contrasts considerably 
to Mr Ms explanation. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe 
is most likely, on the balance of probabilities.
Though Mr M may have felt that he was not happy at the meetings, the evidence from the 
time doesnt bear this out. Each of the meetings had a reasonable time between, to allow Mr 
M time to cancel or change his mind  and in fact, this is what Mr M did in respect of the new 
£270,000 bond. I realise Mr M has explained he has vulnerabilities and whilst I recognise 
that, I cannot infer that Mr M was denied the opportunity to take family members to any 
relevant meetings where the documentary evidence suggests otherwise. 
Firstly, Mr M increased the amount to be invested by £10,000. Then, he went on to ask the 
adviser to cancel the bond as shortly after the investments took place, there was a period of 
economic downturn due to the onset of the coronavirus pandemic. This wasnt something 
the adviser could have predicted; however, it does display, in my view, that Mr M felt he 
could tell the adviser where he was unhappy and that he no longer wished to proceed.  Looking at the wider suitability of the advice, I believe Mr M was in the position to make the 
investments recommended. The fact find assessment of his attitude to risk was cautious, 
and the proposal to increase the value of one existing bond and invest further funds in a new 
bond within the same fund was not unreasonable, given the fund itself offered diversification 
and fell within the type of investments that would reasonably achieve Mr Ms recorded aims 
of wanting smoothed returns that had limited risk but the prospect of achieving greater 
returns than those available in deposit based accounts. The top up also came under the 
product threshold of £500,000 in any single bond.  
Though he was retired at the time of the advice and aged 68, Mr M had over £700,000 on 
deposit, because funds had built up from his existing property business. Further, 
approximately half of the value was because Mr M had received investment proceeds from a 
different business and was looking to reinvest it. He had experience of Prudential Investment 
Bonds, and he had three existing bonds at the time of the advice with over £622,000 
invested. In addition, Mr M had a further £221,000 in cash ISAs. He also had a £25,000 per 
year income, £12,000 rental income and monthly expenses of approximately £1,250. 
Mr M had a healthy amount of disposable income should he need to consider making 
contributions into further savings vehicles at a lowest end of the risk spectrum, or rely on 
these should his circumstances have changed  though given Mr M is retired, I do not 
believe this was likely. I also believe Mr M had sufficient means, without liabilities or 
dependants, to take a risk of the nature set out by the recommendations.  
I havent seen any clear evidence that would lead me to conclude the amount invested was 
inappropriate, that a new bond was unreasonable for the adviser to suggest or that leaving 
Mr M with £73,500 of capital in deposit accounts was too great of a proportion of his 
accessible funds. That Mr M subsequently cancelled the new investment was in response to 
market conditions, which of itself doesnt render the advice unsuitable particularly where Mr 
M had been familiar with this type of investment bond for many years, with notable sums 
invested already at the time of the advice. 
 
I therefore consider on balance that Mr M likely wanted to go ahead with the investments 
and that on the information Ive seen, the advice was suitable in the circumstances noting his 
financial situation and recorded investment objectives.
I note Mr M feels particularly frustrated that he was changed adviser fees, notably in respect 
of the cancelled investment. However, the documentation issued at the time of the 
investment set out in clear terms how Mr M could cancel, and if he did so that Your refund 
will not include any charges paid to your adviser. 
In any event, given my conclusions above, I dont believe that Mr M was misadvised such 
that the adviser fees should have been returned to him. As it was, the adviser went beyond 
merely obtaining a cancellation value; he asked Prudential to consider offering a surrender 
value to Mr M, as by the time the relevant information was processed by Prudential the 
investment had recovered from the downturn and made a return over the original sum 
invested. This resulted in a gain of £922.35 being paid to Mr M over and above the refund he 
should have received for cancelling within 30 days. 
In any event, I dont find Openwork to be at fault for how Prudentials processes operate and 
Mr M has not suffered any financial loss. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman