DRN-3064699
The complaint
Mr R complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles irresponsibly allowed him to open a 
credit card account and later increased the credit limit which were both unaffordable.
What happened
Mr R says he opened the Marbles account in September 2016. He says the lending decision 
was irresponsible and he later got into financial difficulties as a result. Mr R says Marbles 
later increased the credit limit on the account which was also unaffordable. He says he is 
now in a Debt Management Plan (DMP) and would like all interest refunded.
Marbles says it hasnt made a mistake and carried out appropriate checks on the application 
and credit limit increase. It says Mr R was in employment at the time of the application in 
September 2016 earning £22,000 a year with unsecured debt of about £2,300. It also says 
Mr R didnt have adverse information on his credit file or other accounts in arrears. Marbles 
says Mr R had one pay day loan and that it increased the credit limit from the initial £900 to 
£2,100 in April 2017.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought Marbles had carried out appropriate checks on the initial application and was entitled 
to consider the lack of adverse information on Mr Rs credit file and his income compared to 
the unsecured debt. But also thought that further checks ought to have been carried out at 
the point when the credit limit was increased. The investigator thought at that stage Mr R 
had used most of the existing credit, was making minimum payments only and was taking 
out further debt elsewhere. The investigator recommended interest and charges be refunded 
over and above the £900 credit limit and any adverse information removed from Mr Rs 
credit file.
Mr R accepts that view, but Marbles doesnt. It says Mr R managed his credit accounts 
appropriately and it hasnt made a mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that, whilst Marbles may have carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks on the original application by Mr R, it ought to have 
carried our further checks on the decision to increase Mr Rs credit limit.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of any credit facility or lending. And I wouldnt have expected those such checks to 
have been as detailed here as for example a mortgage application, as this was an 
application for a credit facility.
I have looked carefully at Marbles records and can see that it did carry out checks on Mr Rs 
credit card account application. I can see it recorded Mr Rs income as over £20,000 a year 
and that it calculated his debt at about £2,300. I also think Marbles appropriately checked Mr 
Rs credit file and concluded he didnt have any adverse information recorded on it and that 
he managed his other accounts appropriately. So, Im satisfied Marbles did carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Rs application and that the lending decision 
was affordable and not irresponsible. Im also satisfied Marbles approved what I think was a 
relatively modest credit limit of £900.
I have also looked at how Mr R managed his account after it was opened to the point when 
the credit limit was increased in April 2017. I can see that he used most of the available 
credit fairly quickly and made what I think were payments close to the minimum required 
amounts. He also exceeded his credit limit. I have looked at Mr Rs credit file and can see 
that Mr R opened other credit and lending accounts around that time and that his overall 
debt increased significantly. So, I dont think Marbles carried out appropriate and 
proportionate checks on the credit limit increase. I think Marbles increased the limit from 
£900 to over £2,000 when it ought to have been clear that, although Mr R was making 
minimum required payments, longer term Mr R would have difficulties re-paying the 
borrowing at those rates.
Im satisfied that if Marbles carried out further checks on the credit limit increase then it likely 
those checks would have revealed the lending was not sustainable or affordable in the 
circumstances. I think it ought to have questioned why Mr R was taking out other credit and 
considered getting further evidence before making that lending decision as the increase 
came only some months after the initial lending.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigators view that Marbles should refund any charges or interest 
applied to the account balance over and above the credit limit of £900 and also remove any 
adverse information that may have been recorded on Mr Rs credit file. Marbles should use 
the refunded interest and charges to reduce the balance Mr R may owe it and pay him 8% 
simple interest on any balance due back to him. Marbles should also provide a certificate of 
taxation deducted if appropriate on the amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order NewDay Ltd trading as 
Marbles to refund any charges or interest applied to Mr Rs account over and above a £900 
balance and deduct that from any balance owed. It should also pay Mr R 8% simple interest 
on any refunded charges and interest due back to him if appropriate and provide him with a 
certificate of deducted taxation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman