DRN-3607283
The complaint
Ms J complains Freetrade Limiteds trading app was not fit for purpose and its service failed 
to take proper account of her needs including needs arising from disability. She says these 
failings caused her to suffer financial loss as well as distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Our investigator considered Ms Js complaint and, having considered all her submissions, 
identified key events and issues as follows:
Ms J wasnt able to make a particular share sale on 3 August 2021 because an app error 
led to a considerable delay in her being informed that a sell limit-order she needed to 
remove first had been removed. The share price fell in the meantime.
Ms J wasnt able to make a particular share purchase on 3 August 2021 because an app 
error delayed the display of orders and the share price then rose.
Ms J wasnt able to set the limit-orders as she wanted because Freetrades app display 
didnt show enough decimal places to allow the precision she wanted. Information about 
executed trades was similarly affected as it didnt always show full price details. 
Ms J wasnt able to sell her holding of a certain companys shares as she wanted at 
market open on 17 August 2021 at 8am. Other providers offered trading in these relisted 
shares from 8am but Freetrade didnt organise this until after 9am.
Ms J pointed out to Freetrade an error in the pricing shown for certain shares. This error 
was corrected by Freetrades engineers on 24 August 2021.
Freetrade offered an app-based service and refused Ms Js request that in light of her 
disability it adjust this to a phone-based one.
Freetrade initially gave Ms J only eight trading days to close or move her positions when 
on 27 September 2021 it told her its service wasnt right for her and she would have to 
close her account. Also Freetrade initially wouldnt speak to Ms J about the issues she 
had with this decision.
Having considered all this, our investigators conclusions were - in brief summary:
It was due to a failing of Freetrade that Ms J was unable to sell the shares she wanted to 
sell on 3 August 2021, but this didnt cause her loss because she later had chances to 
sell these for a higher price and did in fact do this for most of them. 
It was due to a failing of Freetrade that Ms J was unable to buy the shares she wanted to 
buy on 3 August 2021. But it wouldnt be fair to hold Freetrade responsible for any losses 
Mr J might have suffered as a result. This is because Freetrades terms made it clear it 
didnt guarantee its service would work without errors or interruptions and made clear 
Freetrade wouldnt be liable for losses from such problems. No platform can guarantee 
its service will always be available. Things do go wrong and Freetrade didnt deliberately 
stop Ms J making the trades. For the same reasons it wouldnt be fair to hold Freetrade 
responsible for financial consequences of the errors it corrected on 24 August 2021.
Frustrating though it was for her, Freetrade wasnt at fault for not having Ms Js relisted 
shares available to trade until an hour or so after market open on 17 August 2021 when 
those shares were relisted. Freetrade was allowed to grant access to this stock through 
its platform at the point in time it wished to grant this - and there werent grounds to say 
Freetrade should have done this differently. The decision was within its discretion.
It may have been frustrating that Freetrades app display showed a limited number of 
decimal places, but this didnt affect Ms J financially because her orders went through at 
the right prices regardless of any rounding of figures on the app.
Freetrade was clearly unable to meet Ms Js needs so its decision to close her account 
was right. It was also right to extend by around three weeks the time it allowed Ms J to 
arrange this. Also it transferred holdings out for her in a way it normally wouldnt have 
and offered her same-day fund withdrawal. 
Freetrade was right to arrange a phone call with Ms J about the account closure. But it 
ought to have taken that step earlier, bearing in mind what it knew about her health 
condition. It caused her unnecessary distress by not doing so and so should pay her 
£300 as compensation for this distress.
Freetrade rejected our investigators outcome. In brief summary, Freetrade said calling Ms J 
went over and above the service it had agreed to offer and so it wasnt fair to be penalised 
for not doing this sooner. Also, it appeared to Freetrade that it wouldnt have been criticised 
if it had stuck to its process and not called at all, so it appeared it was being penalised for 
doing more for Ms J than it would have normally done for a customer.
Ms J also rejected our investigators outcome. In brief summary, she said £300 wasnt 
enough for the impact on her health alone. She said Freetrade forcing her to close her 
account lost her money, she made losses due to glitches and there was also discrimination  
all of which justifies more than £300. She said Freetrade not making the relisted shares 
available in time for market open cost her £530.
Ms J also suggested more consideration needed to be given to all the documents she had 
sent us and to issues that werent referred to by our investigator but had been raised in 
those documents. She didnt specify what had been overlooked. Our investigator had 
previously invited her to specify the points of her complaint.
I wrote to Ms J referring to various points she had made and issues she had raised with 
Freetrade during the time she was using its service. Those points or issues included:
Problems and queries over price Ms J had at first about market orders  particularly 
where the markets were not open at the time of the order.
Freetrade on one day being unable to arrange purchases of shares on US markets.
Problems and queries Ms J had over limit orders not being executed or the price at 
which they were executed or the spread involved.
Problems with fields on the app remaining blank for Ms J, including the average price 
field not populating correctly, and having to reinstall the app each day to resolve issues.Having to argue with Freetrade daily about its attitude and ability to run its app properly.
Orders being queued, the speed of order execution, limit orders not being cancelled, 
incorrect pricing and incorrect profit and loss information.
Not allowing Ms J to buy shares after Freetrade had decided her account needed to be 
closed, so she couldnt buy more shares at lower prices where her shares had fallen in 
value and so she wasnt able to reduce the average price she would need the shares to 
rise to for a profit or to breakeven. If shed been allowed to make these purchases, she 
wouldnt have chosen to sell some shares as early as she did and so she suffered losses 
that she mightve avoided. Also, for shares she transferred to a new provider, she risked 
missing a share price rise during the transfer if she couldnt sell or was inhibited from 
selling during that transfer process.
I invited Ms J to let me know of any specific point - in those Id mentioned or any I hadnt - to 
which she thought I should give more attention. She said it was too long ago for her to recall. 
But she did say Freetrades app was failing to work for her most of the time  and she 
referred to screenshots she had sent of this. 
Ms J said Freetrades app had glitch after glitch and this is even clearer to her now she has 
moved to another provider. She said Freetrades restriction of her account was retaliation for 
her complaint and made her stress levels ten times worse than was necessary due to the 
threat to sell all her stock. She said Freetrades failings caused her distress as well as 
financial loss and she worked out the financial loss to be around £2100.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it is one that I must decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
It is plain there were failings in the service Freetrade offered Ms J due to faults that occurred 
on its app from time to time. Sometimes those failings deprived her of the chance of trading 
at a more favourable price than was available once the faults were fixed. So these potentially 
caused Ms J loss. An example would be the fault that stopped Ms J buying the shares she 
wanted to buy on 3 August 2021  which Ms J at the time said lost her around £200.
But in considering whether Freetrade should pay Ms J compensation, I take into account its 
terms. These included that Freetrade wouldnt be liable to Ms J for losses arising as a 
result of your inability to access our Services, whatever the reason or cause for that 
inability. The terms also included that Freetrade couldnt guarantee that our Services will 
always be accessible by you, always available, always functioning properly or error-free.
With those terms in mind, and having considered the particular instances in which it appears 
a fault on Freetrades app prevented Ms J from trading, I havent identified any in which I 
think it would be fair and reasonable to require Freetrade to compensate Ms J for a trade 
she was unable to make. I say this bearing in mind that an online system reliant on an app is 
unlikely to work exactly as it should always. In my view it was reasonable for Freetrade to 
offer its service on the basis that if a fault on the app prevented or delayed Ms J from trading 
this, broadly, wouldnt be something Freetrade would compensate her for. Im not persuaded 
that, on the facts in this case, it would be fair and reasonable to disregard what Freetrades 
terms said about its willingness to assume liability for losses in those situations. I note what Ms J has said about having daily difficulties with information loading onto the app 
and about how she had to restart it each day. The screenshots she sent us show there were 
problems with data loading slowly or not loading at all. In some examples Ms J had drawn to 
our attention, the fields filled in a few minutes later. In others the problem persisted. But Ive 
not seen anything to suggest to me these were system-wide issues rather than issues with 
how Ms Js set-up interacted with Freetrades app. Overall Im not persuaded that it was a 
fault by Freetrade or on its app or system that was the root of these problems. So I dont find 
it at fault for those problems and I say this regardless of whether Freetrades terms about not 
guaranteeing problem-free access to its service would also apply and cover these difficulties. 
Ms Js trades will have been executed at the relevant market prices even if, due to the 
number of decimal places shown by the app, full details of the prices couldnt be shown. But 
Ms Js ability to place stop-loss or limit orders at the precise levels she wouldve liked was 
affected by the number of decimals available, so this did have potential to impact her  
particularly for shares with very low prices or what Freetrade called penny stocks. 
Ms J says Freetrade shouldnt have offered trading in these penny stocks if its app wasnt 
suited to deal with them. Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ms J has said and from 
what Ive seen, the level of price detail the app gave was apparent when she bought the 
shares  as was what could and couldnt be seen on it in terms of decimal places. With this 
in mind, I dont think Freetrade treated Ms J unfairly by offering and allowing her to buy the 
shares she wanted to buy  even if these might fall or rise in price increments smaller than 
the smallest shown on the app. Also I dont find that Freetrade acted unfairly by not offering 
a limit or stop loss facility that would operate at the smallest increment by which a share 
price might move or at smaller increments than it offered on its app.
Turning to the relisted shares Freetrade didnt make available until after 9am instead of at 
the 8am market open, the day before the relisting Ms J told Freetrade she expected to be 
able to trade the shares as soon as the market opened. Freetrade told her it was working on 
making the shares available, but it didnt promise her that she would be able to trade them at 
8am when the market opened. Freetrades complaint response emphasised that it hadnt 
promised Ms J it would make the shares available from any particular point in time. 
I note Freetrade didnt in its terms undertake to ensure a relisted share it allowed its 
customers to trade would be available on the day of relisting or within a particular timeframe 
or before a particular deadline. Also Freetrade wasnt obliged under its terms to offer trading 
in the shares of every company or of any particular company. It was free to decide which 
shares it would offer its customers the facility to trade. 
Having said that, I think it is relevant that Ms J wouldnt have had the relisted shares and 
wouldnt have held them through Freetrade had it not been for Freetrade allowing her to buy 
shares in that company before those shares were suspended. So Freetrade has a customer, 
Ms J, who had a financial interest in those shares that had arisen by virtue of the customer 
relationship. The shares werent something Ms J could choose not to involved herself in if 
Freetrade chose not to allow trading in them. Trading in those shares was something Ms J 
she needed Freetrade to facilitate, rather than being an optional extra for her. In my view it 
was reasonable for her to expect Freetrade to arrange this in the circumstances here. 
Freetrade hasnt said it wasnt obliged to arrange for Ms J to be able to sell her holding of the 
relisted shares  it has said it wasnt at fault for arranging this for just after 9am rather than in 
time for the 8am market open.
In considering whether this was reasonable, I bear mind the shares had been suspended 
around five months earlier and the relisting had been expected but then deferred more than 
once during that time. I also note the relisting was preceded by a 11 August 2021 prospectus 
and that, ignoring weekends, there were three working days after that before 17 August. So although Ms J has referred to the relisting as having been expected for some months, the 
actual timing and details of it werent available until much closer to the event itself. 
I dont overlook that Freetrades delay of a little over an hour had financial consequences for 
Ms J. Ms Js most recent assessment of this loss was £1600, although this isnt based on 
the sale of her holding alone but on further knock-on or repeat transactions she might have 
made after that. Her earlier estimate of the loss on the sale itself was around £560 based on 
a difference between a share price of 0.8p she says was available at 8am and a share price 
of 0.41p from after the time the shares were made available to her to trade by Freetrade. But 
I note that on the day of the relisting itself, Ms J told Freetrade on its chat a few minutes after 
the market open that the price she had missed out on was 0.6p, which would imply a loss of 
around £270.
It is hard to say what price Ms J might have got if shed been able to trade in the minutes 
after market open. Even if 0.8p is an opening price on a historic chart, this doesnt mean 
trades requested immediately after market open would have gone through at this price  
particularly where many sales are requested because it is the first chance to sell a share that 
has been suspended for some months. But whatever the exact figure, what is plain is that in 
the first hour of trading there were prices available that were more favourable than an hour 
later and the 0.41p price Ms J has referred to. Also Ive nothing to suggest it would have 
been impossible for Freetrade to arrange to allow trading in the shares to begin earlier and 
at 8am  given other providers did manage this.
But I bear in mind also what Ive said above about the shares having been unlisted for some 
months with plans to relist deferred at times. I bear in mind also what Ive said about the 
timescale between the prospectus publication and the relisting. Also I bear in mind the 
absence of specific promises in Freetrades terms about how quickly relisted shares would 
be made available and I note Freetrade also gave Ms J no promises personally when she 
raised this with Freetrade the day before the relisting.
With this and all Ive said above in mind, on balance  and it is a fine balance  I reach the 
view that Freetrade is not at fault here for having made the shares available a little after 9am 
rather than at 8am market open. It follows that I dont find Freetrade responsible to Ms J for 
the loss she has calculated, either in relation to the sale of the relisted shares or in relation to 
any other transactions that this sale may have facilitated.
I turn now to the issue of Freetrade closing Ms Js account, which Freetrade started to 
initiate in late September 2021.
Theres no doubt Freetrades service wasnt working well for Ms J from her point of view. 
This is plain from the number and frequency of problems she was experiencing and raising 
with Freetrade. Indeed, Ms J says she was arguing with Freetrade about the inadequacy of 
its service on a daily basis. That obviously isnt a sustainable situation and, on the face of it, 
appears on its own to be sufficient grounds to say it wasnt unfair, unreasonable or in breach 
of its obligations for Freetrade to decide Ms Js account needed to be closed. Also it seems 
that more than a month before Freetrade asked her to close her account, Ms J had already 
decided the answer was to close her account with Freetrade and move elsewhere. She told 
Freetrade in mid-August that she intended to move to a new provider and had an account 
set up ready for this. But she said she wanted to resolve some of the issues she had with 
Freetrade first before moving. 
So it doesnt really seem to be disputed that Ms Js account with Freetade wasnt working for 
her and needed to be closed. It is how Freetrade went about that which is the nub of this part 
of the dispute. But having said that, I do note what Ms J told Freetrade about how her use of 
its service was having a negative effect on her health and on her mental health. In my view that in itself provided reasonable grounds for Freetrade to decide Ms Js account needed to 
be closed. So I do not find Freetrade at fault for that. I note Freetrades terms say it is 
permitted to close or suspend accounts or trades if it has reasonable grounds to do so. 
In saying all this, I dont overlook that one aspect of problems Ms J had with Freetrades 
service was that the service Freetrade offered was an online-only and app-based service. 
Ms J has explained her health issues and disability at times meant interacting with Freetrade 
through its app was difficult or entirely impractical for her and in any case tiring and stressful. 
Ive thought about this carefully, bearing in mind in particular about what she has said about 
disability. But having done so, I dont find Freetrade acted unfairly, unreasonably or in 
breach of its obligations towards Ms J by offering an online service and not also offering her 
an alternative service such as a telephone service. In my view the nature of Freetrades 
offering as an online-only service was plain and I find nothing wrong in that. Also Ive seen 
no evidence or suggestion that Freetrade led Ms J to believe it offered any other sort of 
service  so Im satisfied Ms Js decision to open her Freetrade account was made on the 
basis that what it was offering was an online, app-based service.
Returning to how Freetrade went about closing Ms Js account, the timescale Freetrade set 
for this and the limitations it imposed on her account in the meantime, I agree the initial time 
set by Freetrade was too short in the circumstances and Freetrade was right to extend this in 
the way that it did. But I cant fault Freetrade for wanting to bring the situation to a conclusion 
as swiftly as it reasonably could  bearing in mind what Ms J had said about how her use of 
its service was impacting her. It isnt obvious that Ms J was very much closer to closing her 
account in late September than she was when she first expressed an intention to do this in 
mid-August. But whether or not that is the case, I still dont think it was wrong for Freetrade 
to set deadlines with a view to bringing the matter to a conclusion.
Ms J includes in her calculation of financial loss what she might have made or recovered if 
she had been allowed to buy more shares and these shares had then increased in value and 
she had then sold them, with the rest of her shares, at favourable prices. It seems to me her 
position on this is very similar to, if not in essence the same as, saying that Freetrade ought 
to have continued to allow her to buy and sell as normal until such time as her account was 
in a positive position as a result of her trading. But it is in the nature of trading that such an 
outcome cannot be guaranteed. So such an approach wouldnt necessarily have led to 
Ms Js account being closed at all, let alone being closed within a reasonable and prompt 
timescale. Also if Freetrade had allowed Ms J to buy more shares, this would necessarily 
have added to her financial exposure to the shortcomings or features of the service with 
which she was dissatisfied, which in my view doesnt appear to be consistent with an 
objective of reducing and in due course removing that exposure. 
Also I note Freetrade reduced the extent to which Ms J would have to sell and potentially 
rebuy shares elsewhere. It did this by allowing her to transfer holdings where it had the 
facility to allow this. In my view it was appropriate that Freetrade took this step and I note it 
wouldnt ordinarily have allowed this except for ISA holdings. I accept there was still a risk of 
Ms J missing a share price rise during a transfer of a holding. But I note Ms J had the option 
of selling holdings and transferring the cash instead  and Freetrade offered her a same day 
fund transfer, to address her concern that she might miss out if cash from a share sale 
wasnt moved promptly enough to her new provider. 
With all this in mind, it seems to me Freetrade did do a reasonable amount to mitigate or 
remove the risk of loss that might otherwise have arisen from Ms J closing her account and 
moving elsewhere. Also I dont think that allowing Ms Js account to run indefinitely was 
preferable as an alternative. I accept that having to close positions or move them sooner 
than Ms J may have had in mind will have been stressful for her. But she has said the 
situation before that was stressful too. Also Ms J had a number of weeks to arrange either sales or transfers of her holdings, so she had some control over the timing. 
Overall, when balanced against the potential disadvantages to Ms J of continuing to use 
Freetrades service, I dont think the potential disadvantages for her of how Freetrade went 
about closing her account, were such that Freetrades actions were unfair or unreasonable.
It follows that I do not uphold Ms Js claim for financial loss arising from the trades she says 
she couldve profited from had she been able to continue to buy and sell as normal during 
the account closure process.
Overall I dont find Freetrade at fault for how it went about closing Ms Js account. However I 
do note Ms J did wish to discuss this decision with Freetrade on the phone. Freetrade didnt 
offer a phone service. But having decided the service it did offer wasnt right for Ms J, and 
bearing in mind that the online-only nature of the interactions was a part of that, I dont think 
it follows that Freetrade was right to refuse to speak to Ms J about ending the service it was 
offering her. On the contrary, I agree with our investigator that it was appropriate for 
Freetrade to speak to Ms J about this in the way that it did. Also, bearing in mind in particular 
what Freetrade knew about Ms Js health, I also share the view that Freetrade ought to have 
done this earlier and that Freetrade should pay Ms J £300 for distress caused by this failing. 
I note Freetrade had already made other small payments, including a fees rebate and £20 
for inconvenience. My award is in addition to these amounts and should be paid on top.
So I uphold Ms Js complaint on that basis and to that extent. 
Putting things right
Freetrade Limited should put things right by paying Ms J £300 for distress Freetrade Limited 
caused her due to the failings Ive identified above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I uphold Ms Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman