DRN-2948990
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) irresponsibly gave him 
a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In November 2015, Mr C acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from 
TCFC. The cash price of the car was £7,350, Mr C was required to make 48 monthly 
repayments of around £306 with a total repayable of around £14,700. 
Mr C paid off the agreement in November 2019, but in June 2020 he complained to TCFC 
that the agreement had been unaffordable to him from the outset. He didnt think TCFC had 
carried out reasonable affordability checks before lending to him and if they had they would 
have seen he was in financial difficulty. He said he had struggled throughout the life of the 
agreement to meet the repayments and only managed to do so by borrowing from other 
lenders. 
TCFC said it thought it had carried out suitable checks before lending. It said it had 
requested a copy of Mr Cs recent payslip to verify his income, it had completed a credit 
check and asked him to complete a form detailing all of his regular expenditure. It said these 
checks demonstrated the agreement was affordable. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She noted that TCFCs credit 
check showed that Mr C had several defaults and was in arrears with some of his creditors. 
She considered in the circumstances it would have been reasonable for TCFC to have 
verified what Mr C had declared for his expenditure. However, having reviewed Mr Cs bank 
statements, our investigator didnt think that TCFC would likely have found the agreement 
was unaffordable to Mr C even if it had completed a more reasonable affordability 
assessment. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary he said that no consideration had been given to the £300 
child maintenance he was paying every month. He said the credit check should have shown 
he was relying on payday loans and was taking out lots of high interest credit. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did TCFC complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks?
TCFC were required to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before 
lending to Mr C. What is considered proportionate will vary depending on the specific 
circumstances, such as (but not limited to): the size of the loan and repayments, the interest 
rate, the duration of the loan and the consumers individual circumstances.
As part of its checks, TCFC recorded that Mr C was in permanent employment and had 
been in the same role for many years, it reviewed a copy of a recent payslip which showed a 
monthly income of around £2,700. It found that Mr C lived at home with his parents and 
asked Mr C for details of his regular expenditure which indicated he had around £1,300 in 
disposable income each month. In addition, it completed a credit check to understand what 
credit commitments he had elsewhere. 
The information TCFC gathered from the credit check indicated that Mr C may have been 
struggling financially. This is because there were several defaults recorded against debts, he 
was taking out a number of payday loans and some of his credit commitments were currently 
in arrears. Given this information, I dont think it was reasonable or proportionate for TCFC to 
have relied on what Mr C had declared his monthly outgoings to be. I think it ought to have 
tried to verify this information in some way. 
Would proportionate checks have likely shown the agreement was unaffordable and 
unsustainable for Mr C?
Its not clear exactly what TCFC would have done to verify Mr Cs expenditure. In the 
absence of anything else, Ive reviewed copies of Mr Cs bank statements in the months 
leading up to the application. I think its reasonable to rely on these as an indication of what 
TCFC would most likely have found out if theyd completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks. 
Mr C lived at home with his parents and his bank statements appear to support this as he 
wasnt required to pay utility bills, council tax or any formal rent  although he did declare to 
TCFC that he was contributing £200 per month to his parents. His other regular committed 
expenditure included a mobile phone bill, car insurance, fuel and food. In addition, he had a 
number of credit commitments. However, from what Ive seen from Mr Cs bank statements 
there isnt anything to indicate he didnt have sufficient disposable income to meet all of his 
existing credit commitments as well as the payment towards the hire purchase agreement 
with TCFC. 
While Mr C did have other credit commitments in arrears at the time, Ive not seen anything 
to demonstrate he couldnt afford those repayments and those towards the hire purchase 
agreement in a sustainable way. TCFC were entitled to take a commercial decision to lend 
to Mr C despite him having a poor credit record, however, in doing so it was required to 
ensure the new borrowing was affordable and sustainable. While I dont think TCFCs initial 
affordability checks were adequate in the specific circumstances of this case, Im satisfied 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would likely have shown Mr C could afford the 
agreement. I therefore dont think TCFC needs to do anything to put things right. 
Lastly, Mr C says his £300 monthly payment towards child maintenance wasnt taken into 
consideration. However, it doesnt appear he declared this to TCFC when asked about his 
committed expenditure. I dont think these payments would have been easily identifiable 
from his bank statements, so I see no reason why TCFC ought to have become aware of 
them. But even if they had, it still appears he had sufficient disposable income to meet his 
regular commitments. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman