DRN-3588915
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about a secured loan they took out with Swift 1st Limited. In 
particular, Mr and Mrs M believe they have been treated unfairly as Swift paid a secret 
commission to the broker who arranged the loan. Mr and Mrs M are also unhappy that the 
broker recommended a loan with a subprime lender with a high interest rate. 
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs M would like the commission and initial fees refunded to 
them. 
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs M borrowed £10,000 through a loan with Swift. The original loan term 
was ten years, the total charge for credit was set out as £10,176.80 and the loan was to be 
repaid through monthly repayments of £168.14. The loan had a variable interest rate, which 
at the time the loan started amounted to an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 17.3%. 
The loan was arranged through a broker, who I shall refer to here as B. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to Swift about the loan and believe they have been treated 
unfairly as there was a secret commission paid by Swift to the broker for arranging the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs M believe the broker only chose the loan with Swift because of the 
amount of commission that was paid and that this was the highest when compared to other 
lenders. 
Swift has explained that the broker who arranged the loan was not acting as its agent. Swift 
has referred to documentation it says would have been provided at the time of the sale that 
indicates the broker would be paid a commission by Swift for arranging the loan. Swift has 
confirmed that commission totalling £698.75 was paid to the broker for arranging the loan. 
Swift does not however believe it was required to disclose the actual amount of commission 
to Mr and Mrs M at the time the loan was taken out and it does not believe Mr and Mrs M 
have been treated unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs M are represented in their complaint by a third party but for ease I have referred 
to all submissions by Mr and Mrs M and the third party as if from Mr and Mrs M. 
Unhappy with Swifts response, Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service. Having 
considered what the parties had said and provided the investigator explained that they did 
not ultimately consider the complaint should be upheld. In summary, the investigator 
explained that there was limited information available from the time of the sale and there was 
no documentary evidence to demonstrate under what capacity the broker was acting when 
arranging the loan. There was also nothing to indicate that the broker provided advice or 
recommendations to Mr and Mrs M. 
The investigator explained that they did not consider there was a specific requirement for 
Swift to have disclosed the actual commission amount to Mr and Mrs M and when 
considering the amount of commission, they did not believe a court would conclude this 
amounted to an unfair relationship under s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act.  
Mr and Mrs M did not accept the investigators conclusions and as the complaint could not 
be resolved informally it has been referred to me so a final decision can be issued. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as 
a free alternative to the courts for consumers. Im very aware that I have summarised in 
much less detail what has been submitted by the parties in this complaint. In deciding this 
complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than 
commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr 
and Mrs M or Swift but reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
In cases when it is not clear what happened or where the evidence is incomplete or 
inconclusive, I base my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence.
Mr and Mrs M complain that they have been disadvantaged as a result of Swift making a 
secret or undisclosed commission payment to the broker who arranged the loan. It is now 
clear that there was a commission payment between Swift and the broker and Swift has told 
us that commission totalling £698.14 was paid in relation to Mr and Mrs Ms loan. 
Swift has pointed to documentation from the time of the loan application and a Finance 
Industry Standards Association (FISA) booklet that would have been provided to Mr and Mrs 
M. Swift refers to the section relating to how the credit broker who arranged the mortgage 
would be paid and that the broker will receive a commission payment for arranging the loan.  
Amongst other things, this states, 
If the broker is FISA registered the broker will be paid by the lender involved in the 
transaction. Unless the broker notifies you to the contrary the broker will receive one or more 
of the following commissions:
A commission from the lending company, usually based on a percentage of the 
amount you borrow;
A commission from the lending company based on a proportion of the premium for 
any Optional Payment Protection Insurance you may buy;
Further commission from the lending company. The broker may receive further 
commission from the lending company, paid at a later date, at monthly or longer 
intervals, worked out as a percentage of the total loan business placed with an 
individual lender, or insurance sales placed with a lender. These additional payments 
may require a particular volume of business to be reached in order for them to be 
paid. If the broker fails to reach the required sales volume it may not be paid. Both 
the lender and broker will, upon request, confirm the calculation method and amount 
of any commission paid.
In addition to the above, the broker may charge you a fee for arranging the loan.
Although this does not refer to any monetary amounts of commission, it does however refer 
to a commission payment that is to be made between the lender and the broker for arranging 
the loan. But Ive not seen anything to suggest Swift was under a regulatory duty to disclose 
the actual amount of commission paid in these circumstances. Mr and Mrs M believe that as the commission was not disclosed this amounts to an unfair 
relationship under s.140A Consumer Credit Act. In broad terms, s.140A CCA gives the court 
the discretion to intervene if it determines that the relationship between a creditor and a 
debtor arising out of a credit agreement (or an agreement taken with any related agreement) 
is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of: (i) any terms of the agreement (or any 
related agreement); (b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of its 
rights under the agreement or any related agreement; or (c) any other thing done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor.
Where a court determines that such a relationship is unfair to the debtor, the court has a 
range of powers available to it under s.140B CCA, including altering the terms of the credit 
agreement or any related agreement, requiring the creditor to repay sums paid by the 
debtor, and reducing or discharging any sums payable. 
Although as a matter of law it is for a court to decide whether a relationship is unfair to the 
debtor and how that unfairness should be rectified when considering what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, I am nonetheless required to take into account the 
law. 
In some cases, courts have found that the payment of undisclosed commission has 
amounted to an unfair relationship under s.140a CCA. But that is where the commission 
payments were significantly higher than the amount paid in this instance for Mr and Mrs M. 
The commission payment of £698.75 amounts to approximately 7% of the capital borrowed 
and 7% of the total charge for credit. I think its unlikely that the level of commission paid 
here was high enough to put Swift on notice that not disclosing commission to Mr and Mrs M 
risked making their relationship unfair under s.140A. I think that considering the amount of 
commission here, it is unlikely that a court would conclude that the payment of the 
undisclosed commission in this instance would amount to an unfair relationship under 
s.140A CCA. 
Mr and Mrs M have referred to case law relating to the payment of undisclosed commission 
and believe that the relationship was fiduciary in nature. As set out above, one of the 
difficulties in this case is the very limited amount of point-of-sale documentation. I have not 
been provided with any documentary evidence that refers to the relationship between Mr and 
Mrs M and the broker and under what capacity the broker was acting. I havent seen 
anything to suggest Swift would have breached a duty by paying an undisclosed 
commission. Nor have I seen anything that shows the broker was under a contractual or 
other legal duty to provide information, advice or recommendation to Mr and Mrs M on an 
impartial or disinterested basis. 
Having considered the circumstances of this case I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs have 
been treated unfairly by Swift making the undisclosed payment of commission to the broker 
who arranged the loan.
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that the broker arranged the loan with Swift as 
they believe Swift is not a prime lender. As the investigator has already explained, this would 
be something that would need to be addressed by the broker who arranged the loan and is 
not something that Swift would be responsible for.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against Swift 1st Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman