DRN-3781266
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B believe Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has treated them unfairly 
because it has refused to grant a further extension for them to repay their mortgage. To 
settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs B would like Halifax to grant an extension of at least two 
more years.
Mr and Mrs B have been assisted in bringing the complaint by family members, but for clarity 
I will refer to Mr and Mrs B throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs B being identified. For these reasons, I 
will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In 2008, after taking advice from their own independent financial adviser, Mr and Mrs B took 
out a mortgage with Halifax. They borrowed £69,000 on an interest-only basis over a term of 
ten years. The mortgage offer records that Mr and Mrs B told Halifax they would be using an 
ISA to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. (Mr and Mrs B later disputed this.)
In August 2016 Mr B spoke to Halifax about the mortgage. He explained that there had 
never been an ISA for the mortgage, and the original plan was to sell and downsize, but the 
property hadnt increased in value as theyd expected. Mr B explained that his daughters 
mortgage would be repaid in 2-3 years time, and the plan was that both Mr and Mrs B and 
their daughter would sell and buy one larger property for them all to live in. 
In March 2017 Halifax was told that Mr and Mrs B were putting aside £100 per month to go 
towards purchasing the freehold of the property, which would cost them about £6,000. This 
would enhance the value of the property when they came to sell it. Mr and Mrs B wanted to 
sell in five years time, but due to the short lease on the property, they couldnt do so at that 
time. It was established at that time that a switch to capital and interest would not be 
affordable. (I note in this regard that Halifax had been told by the broker and solicitors that 
the property was freehold at the time of the purchase in 2008.)
In May 2017 Halifax granted a five-year term extension to enable Mr and Mrs B to purchase 
the freehold and then sell the property. The new term would end in May 2022. It wasnt until 
the summer of 2022 that the leasehold/freehold position was resolved.
Mr and Mrs B now want a further term extension of an additional two years. This is for two 
reasons:
they have health issues that they say would make it difficult to sell the property;
because of the pandemic, they lost two years when they could have been making 
improvements to the property and sorting out the issues with the lease, so they think it is 
only fair that Halifax allows them an additional two years to make up for this.
Halifax wouldnt agree to a further term extension, so the complaint was brought to our 
service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Halifax had acted 
unfairly. He thought it had been reasonable for Halifax to grant a five-year extension in 2017, 
but didnt think there was anything preventing Mr and Mrs B from selling the property now.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They provided information about their health issues in support of 
their request for an extension, and reiterated that, due to Covid, things had been delayed for 
two years. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, and so the complaint 
has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr and Mrs B; Im not upholding 
their complaint.
The starting point here is that Mr and Mrs B agreed in 2017 that theyd repay the mortgage 
in 2022  an extension of four years on the original repayment date of 2018. Mr and Mrs B 
have various reasons for wanting a term extension, and Ive thought carefully about what 
theyve told us.
A five-year term extension is at the upper level of what I would expect a lender to grant, and 
so I think Halifax did as much as it could to help in 2017. It seems Mr and Mrs Bs plan to 
buy a property with their daughter hasnt come to fruition, so Mr and Mrs B are now looking 
to stay in the property for another two years.
Ive noted their points about being granted a further two years due to the pandemic. 
However, I dont think this would be fair. Mr and Mrs B have already had an additional seven 
months since the mortgage term expired, but have still not placed the property on the market 
for sale, as I would have expected them to do. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that 
allowing them a further two-year extension to make up for time lost because of Covid is 
reasonable, as it doesnt seem to me that Mr and Mrs B have shown that they do, in fact, 
intend to sell the property.
I dont know what improvements Mr and Mrs B want to make to the property before putting it 
on the market, although I note they have recently replaced the boiler. However, many 
purchasers want to redecorate or update a kitchen or bathroom to their own taste when they 
move in. 
Given this, Im not persuaded it would be reasonable for Halifax to extend the mortgage to 
enable home improvements to be carried out. I think its unlikely that paying the mortgage 
interest for another two years, plus what they spend on any improvements they want to carry 
out, will result in any significant cost benefit to Mr and Mrs B in terms of enhanced value to 
the property.
Im also not persuaded that the issues with purchasing the freehold justify a further two-year 
term extension. I fully appreciate that there have been delays with the Land Registry over the last two years. But I am told that the issues with the freehold are now resolved, and so 
there is no bar to a sale of the property. 
Ive also noted what Mr and Mrs B have said about their health issues. Mr B is now 83 years 
of age and Mrs B is 80 years old. Ive looked at the medical appointment letters, and I see 
that they are awaiting, or have just had, appointments for routine surgical procedures. I note 
Mr and Mrs B appear to have long-standing health issues, but the evidence shows that these 
appear to be both consistent with their ages and largely managed by medication.
Whilst I am sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Bs situation, Im not persuaded that delaying matters 
for another two years is likely to be of benefit, given their ages and the long-standing nature 
of their health conditions. Their circumstances dont persuade me that in two years time 
Mr and Mrs B will be in better health than they are now. In fact, from what Ive been told, I 
think its more likely that selling the property and moving when they are 85 and 82 is likely to 
be more, rather than less, onerous for them than if they were to do this now.
Taking all the above into account, I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable to expect 
Halifax to grant a further two-year term extension on this mortgage. (In fact, any extension 
would only have been for 17 months, given that the mortgage term expired in May 2022 and 
we are seven months on from there.)
I dont want to alarm Mr and Mrs B, but as a last resort, if the mortgage isnt repaid within a 
reasonable time (and I think three months from the date of this decision is a reasonable 
amount of time), and there is no evidence from solicitors of an imminent sale, Halifax will be 
entitled to take legal action to recover the debt. I know this isnt something Mr and Mrs B (or 
Halifax) would want, and so it is important that Mr and Mrs B take action within the next few 
months to repay the mortgage.
I fully understand that Mr and Mrs B might not want to sell the property, and if they dont, I 
think it would help them to speak to an independent financial adviser to discuss their options. 
There are some lenders that offer Retirement Interest Only mortgages (where borrowers pay 
interest each month and the loan is repaid when the surviving borrower dies or goes into 
nursing care). 
Other lenders offer Equity Release mortgages (where there are no monthly repayments, but 
interest rolls up into the loan balance, which is repayable on the death of the surviving 
borrower or when they need to go into nursing care). If these types of mortgages are of 
interest to Mr and Mrs B, they can find details of financial advisers from the Financial 
Conduct Authority or the Equity Release Council.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs B were hoping for, and I am sorry if my decision 
causes them any distress. But I have to be fair to both parties and after careful consideration 
of all the evidence, Im unable to find that Halifax has acted unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman