DRN-3807628
The complaint
Ms L has made various complaints about the actions of National Westminster Bank Plc
(NatWest) in relation to a loan and an overdraft account she has.
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case. I provided more information and 
detail to that of the Investigator and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond 
with any more information they wanted me to consider before I came to a final decision on 
the matter. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision. 
Ms L has two accounts with NatWest  a loan account and an overdraft account.
Ms L got into some financial difficulties after her personal circumstances changed, and she 
could no longer keep up with the repayments on the accounts.
Eventually in 2019 the accounts defaulted, and NatWest instructed a debt collector to try
and collect the debt on its behalf. Then in 2020, NatWest took the accounts back from
the debt collectors and took a commercial decision not to pursue Ms L for the debt.
Ms L has disputed the amount NatWest says she owes. The total balance NatWest says
Ms L owes is £6,812.20  this relates to £2,760.87 on her overdraft account and
£4,061.33 from the loan account.
Our Investigator looked into Ms Ls complaint about the outstanding balance too. They
explained that they thought the balance was correct, and they explained why. Ms L
accepted this explanation and said that she was no longer disputing this. But raised
other issues in response to the view and asked for an Ombudsman to consider the
matter.
In response to the Investigator, in summary, Ms L explained that she was unhappy that
shed received conflicting information from NatWest about the status of her account 
she says NatWest had told her it had written off the balance, but it then sent her a letter
asking her to get in touch with a debt collector to arrange a repayment plan. Ms L also
thought the balance of the account ought to have been less had NatWest not added
interest and charges. She has also said that NatWests decision to give her a loan and
increase the limit on her overdraft account was an irresponsible one, because she
couldnt afford to repay them.
I have since explained to Ms L that her complaint about irresponsible lending, and
interest and charges being added to the accounts are new and separate complaints. So,
this decision wont be considering those points. If Ms L wants to pursue a complaint
about these points, then shell need to contact NatWest.
Ms L said that she wanted an Ombudsman to consider her current complaint about the
balance. While she accepts that the outstanding balance has been calculated correctly,
she thinks that the balance should actually be showing as zero because NatWest told
her it had written off the balance. And so, she thinks she should have nothing more to
pay to NatWest, and the zero balances should be reflected on her credit report.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I dont currently intend to uphold Ms Ls complaint. I
appreciate this provisional decision will come as a disappointment to her, but Ill explain my
reasoning below.
The total balance NatWest says Ms L owes is £6,812.20. This is made up of the balances
from two separate accounts  the loan account £4,061.33 and the overdraft £2,760.87. I
note that Ms L has previously agreed that this balance has been calculated correctly. But for
completeness, I have looked at the statements leading up to the balances, and I havent
seen anything that makes me think the total outstanding balance is incorrect. So, I dont
think the amount NatWest says Ms L owes is inaccurate.
However, now Ms L says the balance is incorrect because shes been told by NatWest that
the balance has been written off. And Ms L has taken this to mean that the balance should
be zero.
Ive thought about this point very carefully, but I dont currently agree with Ms L that her
balance should be showing as zero. And Ill explain why below.
I have seen a letter NatWest has sent to Ms L where it does refer to the balance being
written off. NatWest has confirmed that it isnt pursuing Ms L for the balance at the moment.
However, Ms L does remain liable for the balance. The balance is still being reported to the
credit reference agencies and NatWest has said that it reserves the right to sell on the debt
at a later stage if it wants to.
In my opinion, its not unreasonable for Ms L to have understood written off to mean shed
be free from this debt going forward  its what the reasonable borrower would understand
this to mean in the circumstances.
But NatWest has said that it uses the term writing off to mean that it has taken the
commercial decision not to pursue the debt.
Writing off a debt and not pursuing a debt are two separate things. Writing off a debt would
essentially mean wiping the debt clear as though it no longer exists. But not pursuing the
debt would mean that the debt still remains, but NatWest werent going to pursue it at that
time, which is what its said it has decided to do in Ms Ls case.
For clarity here, NatWest hasnt written off Ms Ls debt. It has clarified that it doesnt intend
to pursue her for the debt at the moment. And so, the outstanding amount Ms L is liable for
is still £6,812.20.
If it wasnt NatWests intention to completely wipe the balances of the accounts, I think itd
have been good practice for NatWest to explain clearly to Ms L what was going to happen
next and how the debt would be recognised going forward.
NatWest has explained to me that it contacted Ms L by letter to let her know what wouldhappen with the debt going forward. It hasnt been able to send me an actual copy of the
letter it says it sent to Ms L, and Ive also not seen any evidence of this letter being sent. But
it has sent me a sample letter of what it says it would have sent.
This sample letter does explain that the customer remains liable for the debt and that the
credit reference agencies would be updated. So, if Ms L did receive a letter of this nature, I
think it ought to have been clear to her that she was still liable for the debt, and the balance
would be reported to the credit reference agencies.
Even if Ms L didnt receive this letter, I can see she was sent a letter on 16 May 2021, which
explains she is still liable for the debt  this is also the same letter that says that the debt had
been written off.
While I can appreciate some of the terminology NatWest has used to describe the status of
Ms Ls account has been confusing, I havent seen anything that makes me think NatWest
mis-lead Ms L into thinking that she wouldnt be liable for the debt.
Ms L believes that NatWest should write the debt off because it told her it would. But I dont
currently agree that it should.
There isnt anything in the rules that says a lender should write off the balance of an
account. Generally, the only time where it might be fair for a balance to be written off entirely
would be where theres no reasonable prospect of a customer being able to repay the
balance and that this situation is unlikely to change going forward. I havent seen anything
that makes me think this is the situation for Ms L.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) says that a lender should consider consumers in
default with forbearance and due consideration. I can see that NatWest has frozen future
interest and charges on this account, and it has taken the decision not to enforce repayment
of the debt at this time. So, I think NatWest has treated Ms L with forbearance and due
consideration.
Taking everything Ive seen so far into account, I think the outstanding balance being
reported in relation to this account is correct. And I dont think NatWest has been unfair by
not writing off the balance fully.
NatWest responded to the provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. 
Ms L didnt respond, so Ive assumed there is nothing else she wants me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again and given that neither party has anything else to add, I 
see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. It follows that I dont 
uphold Ms Ls complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman