DRN-3625254
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc did not process an international payment when she
had sufficient funds in her account and they transferred a lower amount when they did
process the transfer.
What happened
Mrs S attempted to make an international payment on 4 November 2019 through her
Santander bank account, but the transfer did not complete. She contacted Santander to find
out why. Santander said that the transfer didnt complete because she didnt have enough
funds in her account to cover the transfer and the administration fee. Mrs S disputed this as
she said she had sufficient funds in her account. She said that she used to receive text
messages and emails informing her that her account would be overdrawn and that she
would need to pay money in to avoid charges, but she didnt get either of these
communications here.
Mrs S says that she attempted the transfer again on 9 November 2019, but as she
attempted the transfer on a weekend, then this wasnt processed by Santander until 11
November. She said the funds debited her account on 13 November, but the recipient
received less than what she tried to send them. Mrs S complained to Santander.
Santander did not uphold Mrs Ss complaint, but they agreed to refund her the administration
fee for her transfer as a gesture of goodwill. Santander explained that Mrs S did not have
enough of an available balance to ensure the transfer completed on 4 November 2019. They
said that as Mrs S had pending card payments of £461.31, this meant that while her current
balance would show more than she was wanting to transfer, her available balance was
£553.95 at the time she attempted the international transfer and the transfer (after the
exchange rate had been applied) was for £532.85 and the administration fee for the transfer
would have meant she would have needed £557.85 available balance to complete the
transfer.
Santander also explained that while two of the card payments they said were pending had
debited her account on 4 November, they were unable to see what time they actually
debited, but they assured Mrs S that they were aware of her available balances at the time
of her attempting the transfer, so there had been no error made.
Santander said that the reason for the recipient receiving less than Mrs S had transferred is
because she only chose to pay the Santander fee of £25 and not any other fees charged.
Santander also explained that she shouldnt rely on text alerts to manage her account as
texts could be delayed due to network issues and they could be received a lot later than they
are sent. Mrs S brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said Santander had provided us
information that showed when Mrs S logged into her account on 4 November 2019 at
10:55am, her current balance was £399.92 and her available balance was £29.46. Mrs S
made a transfer of £524.49 into her account at 11:04am so that meant her current balance
was £924.41 and her available balance was £553.95, but as the international transfer was
attempted at 11:25am, there was not enough available balance to process the transfer and
the administration fee, so Santander declined the transfer as there wasnt sufficient funds in
the account.
Our investigator explained that Mrs S did not receive a text alert as the payment did not go
through and therefore she wasnt overdrawn. Although Mrs S received a payment of £505
into her account at 15:42, this was after the transfer had been attempted. Mrs S asked for an
Ombudsman to review her complaint and she said she had proof that she had sufficient
funds to make the transaction and that she had transferred funds into her account before
she made the transaction.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs S has said about the international transfer that she wanted to make
on 4 November 2019. Ive looked at the screenshots shes provided us and what shes said
about the available balance of her account being enough to make the transfer. But Im not
persuaded that these screenshots show she had sufficient funds to make the transfer and
pay the £25 administration fee and Ill explain why.
The screenshots that Mrs S have sent us actually match up with the information Santander
sent us  but these are reflective of what her current balance was on the day of the
transaction and not her available balance. An available balance can be a lot lower than a
current balance based on card transactions not fully debiting from her account at the point of
the card payment being made  these would be classed as pending transactions. So while
the card payments may show as debiting from her available balance straight away, they may
not show as being debited from her current balance.
As a result of this, Santander have shown that Mrs S had several hundreds of pounds worth
of pending transactions. I wont go into great detail about these here, as Mrs S is aware of
these transactions which Santander have highlighted to her. I know she has mentioned two
of the transactions were showing on the 4 November 2019, so I asked Santander about the
order of where these are displayed on her statement and whether this is indicative of the
time the transactions were made. Santander said that these payments were authorised prior
to the international payment attempt as they were authorised as debit card payments on 1
November 2019, so Mrs S would have had to take these into account before making any
further payments.
Santander said that they would have been reflected in the available balance, however, Mrs S
may have just looked at the current balance instead of the available balance. Santander
have previously said they are unable to say exactly what time these left her account. So Im
not persuaded that the order of where they appear on a statement after the 4 November
2019 would be reflective of the exact time a transaction actually left her account. I say this as
Santander have shown the available balance of the account (after she had made a transfer
to herself for £524.49 into her account at 11:04am) to be £553.95.
So I am satisfied that the attempted international transfer wasnt made because Mrs S did
not have enough available funds in her account to make both the transfer and to pay the
administration fee. Ive considered what Mrs S has said about her already transferring funds
before she attempted the international transfer. As Ive already mentioned, I can see that
Mrs S transferred £524.49 at 11:04am, which was prior to the attempted international
payment at 11:25am, but the information provided by Santander shows that prior to thistransfer, her available balance was £29.46, when she transferred the £524.49, this increased
her available balance to £553.95.
Mrs S would have had enough available balance to transfer the international payment of
£532.85 from her available balance at 11:25am when she attempted it, but because there
was a £25 administrative fee, this meant she would be (£553.95 available balance - £532.85
GBP after the exchange rate - £25 administration fee) = £3.90 short and that is why
Santander did not allow the transfer to be processed.
As Santander did not process the international transfer, this is why Mrs Ss account did not
enter into an unauthorised overdraft and that is why she didnt receive a text/email alert to
tell her that her account was overdrawn.
Ive then considered about what Mrs S has said about the recipient receiving less money
than what she had sent when the transaction had successfully debited from her account on
13 November 2019.
Ive looked at the audit of the international payment that Mrs S successfully made here. This
clearly shows that Mrs S opted to pay Santander charges only. Typically, when someone
makes an international transfer, the sender will have an option of which fees (if any) they
want to pay. I asked Santander what options were available to Mrs S here. They said there
were three options which could be selected, I will pay the Santander charges only, the
beneficiary will pay all the charges and I will pay all of the charges.
Mrs S has said that the recipient of the payment did not charge her fees or commission on
the payment. But since Mrs S did not select that she would pay all of the charges, then any
charges the recipients bank or an intermediary bank which facilitated the transfer would
charge, would be debited from the international payment. Santander would not be the only
bank involved in ensuring the international transfer reached the recipient. So other banks
which are involved in the transfer may charge a fee also. This is why the recipient received
less than what Mrs S sent them.
Ive looked at the audit of the international payment. This does show that Santander did send
the full amount of which Mrs S processed on 9 November 2019. So Im satisfied that
Santander did not send less than Mrs S wanted them to send and the only fee which they
took was the separate £25 fee that Mrs S chose she wanted to pay. So it follows I do not
intend to ask Santander to take any further action.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs S did not accept the provisional decision. She said she made two transfers, 
which covered enough for the international transfer and for also the pending transactions. 
She said she sent proof that she had transferred more than £1,000 on 4 November 2019, 
which covered the international transfer payment and also the pending payments. Santander 
said they had nothing to add to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs S has said about transferring over £1,000 to her account on 4 
November 2019. And I agree that she did transfer over £1,000 to her account on that day in 
total. But the time the money credited her account is very important. The first transfer, as I 
mentioned in my provisional decision was at 11:04am so that meant her current balance was £924.41 and her available balance was £553.95. But the international transfer was 
attempted at 11:25am.
The second transfer of £505 was completed at 15:42pm. So as this was several hours after 
the international transfer had been attempted  and was rejected, this is why I did not 
include reference to this credit to Mrs Ss account in my provisional decision (although it was 
mentioned in the last paragraph of the What Happened section of my provisional decision).
It also appears that the second payment was earmarked for another purpose as a bill 
payment was made for £503.50 roughly 20 minutes after the £505 had credited Mrs Ss 
account at 15:42pm. So Im still satisfied for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, 
that Mrs S did not have enough available balance in her account at the time she attempted 
to make the international transfer to cover the international transfer and the £25 
administrative fee.
In summary, Mrs Ss response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs S will be disappointed, but I 
hope she understand my reasons.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman