DRN-2075926
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Legal & General Insurance Limiteds (L&G) decision not to cover her 
claim for water damage to her property under her Landlord Insurance Policy.
What happened
Mrs Ss property that she let was damaged by water entering through the roof in June 2019 
and her tenants had to move out, and she claimed to L&G for storm damage. Mrs S thought 
that the water entered her property due to damage to the roof. 
L&G said Mrs Ss policy covers events that are listed in the policy booklet and these must be 
the result of a single incident of one of these events. It said on page 6 storm is defined as:
We consider storm to be strong winds of 41 knots/47 mph or more sometimes accompanied 
by rain, hail or snow. Heavy or persistent rain alone does not constitute storm unless the 
downpour is torrential (25mm/1 inch or more rain over a one hour period, or a proportionate 
amount over a shorter time). When assessing a claim we will take into account the condition 
of your property, because a well-maintained building should withstand all but the most 
severe weather events. It is important to remember that you are responsible for maintaining 
your property in a good state of repair. 
L&G said the weather conditions at Mrs Ss property at the time of the damage didnt meet 
the storm criteria defined in the policy and it declined the claim. It said Mrs Ss roofer 
reported that, it was found that every roof outlet on the entire block/ row of properties were 
blocked, causing major flooding upon the roof. Unfortunately, this had caused the water level 
on the roof top to raise considerably above the valley gutter line, causing the water to flow 
into the property through vents and other uptakes, which are not designed to be submerged.
L&G said the report confirmed the damage was the result of guttering overflowing and water 
entering the building as the water rose above guttering level and into the roof. The report 
stated that this was due to debris in gutters which is a maintenance issue. L&G said water 
ingress is excluded from Accidental Damage cover. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said weather reports 
showed the maximum rainfall per hour was only 2.6 mm and the highest wind speed was 26 
mph and so there werent storm conditions at the time. He added that the evidence didnt 
show that the internal flooding was due to a storm as there wasnt any damage to the roof. 
He said the roofers report stated that every outlet was blocked, causing major flooding. He 
said Mrs Ss policy also covers accidental damage, but with an exclusion for water entering a 
building. He said it was fair and reasonable for L&G to decline the claim on the evidence. 
Mrs S disagreed with the investigator. She said the claim has been based on a storm 
happening, when she had the understanding that it was mainly due to an accumulation of 
debris and blocked drains over a certain length of time. She said that surely someone has to 
be to blame for this and its why you pay for insurance. Mrs S requested an ombudsman 
review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at L&Gs decision about Mrs Ss claim to see if it has acted in 
accordance with the terms of the policy and to see if it has treated her fairly. 
Mrs S holds an indemnity policy which covers her property for specific perils that are set out 
in the policy booklet as one-off events. Mrs Ss policy covers her for storm damage and so it 
does matter as to the presence or otherwise of storm conditions when her property was 
damaged. It is a policyholders responsibility to prove their claim and this means that Mrs S 
needs to show that storm conditions were present. Unless it can be shown there was a 
storm, a storm claim must fail. 
The weather report I have seen from the area near to Mrs Ss property for the time the 
damage occurred in June 2019, doesnt show evidence of a storm. Although her policy 
covers accidental damage theres an exclusion for damage from an ingress of water. This 
means theres nothing to show that L&G should be liable for Mrs Ss claim.
Although the investigator went on to consider if a storm was the dominant cause of the 
damage, he wasnt required to. This is because the weather evidence that L&G, the 
investigator and I have seen clearly demonstrates there was no storm at the time of damage 
to Mrs Ss property.
Having said this, I see no reason to doubt the cause of the flooding as identified by the 
roofers report arranged by Mrs Ss letting agent. This stated there was an ongoing issue 
with the roofs drainage system, which was completely blocked and caused the roof to flood 
above the gutters resulting in water flowing into the property through the vents. Mrs S agreed 
with these findings and said someone must be to blame. Maintenance issues are the 
responsibility of the policyholder rather than the insurer and so its clear that her insurer, 
L&G arent to blame.
In conclusion I find that L&G acted in accordance with the terms of Mrs Ss policy in 
declining her claim and I think it has treated her fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman