DRN-3112751
The complaint
Mr C complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) gave him misleading information that 
resulted in him cancelling his policy. 
What happened
Mr C held a business protection policy to cover his trade as a builder. The policy was 
previously underwritten by AXA and was subsequently changed to Allianz on a like for like 
basis. However, Mr C got in touch with Allianz in March 2021 and says he was led to believe 
that the policy wasnt covering him and his business to the extent he previously believed. 
This subsequently led to Mr C cancelling his policy with Allianz and him taking out a different 
policy with another insurer. 
Allianz later wrote to Mr C confirming that he would in fact have been covered, but Mr C said 
he does not believe this and wants a full refund of the premiums he has paid. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. He didnt think that Allianz needed to refund the 
premiums paid as Mr Cs trade activities had been covered by the policy. But he thought that 
the insurer should pay compensation in the form of £75 cash (instead of the shopping 
vouchers offered by Allianz) to recognise the incorrect and confusing information provided. 
Mr C disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator as I consider £75 
compensation to be fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Mr C held a Builder  Domestic and Light Commercial work policy, which Allianz has 
confirmed would have covered his trade as builder. It seems the confusion arose because 
the underwriter Mr C spoke to thought that he was specialising in a particular trade, which 
would require a different kind of policy, and which was why Mr C was led to believe his 
business wasnt adequately insured. But as a builder, his trade would have been covered by 
the original policy he took out. 
Allianz has acknowledged that it gave Mr C incorrect information, and I appreciate why he 
was concerned. But aside from the inconvenience of having to arrange a different policy, Im 
not persuaded there has been any other detriment or financial loss caused to Mr C. He has 
had the benefit of cover for his trade, so I see no reason why they should have to refund all 
the premiums he has paid.
I understand it would have been frustrating for Mr C to have received conflicting information. 
But Allianz has apologised for the confusion caused, and also offered £75 in the form of 
shopping vouchers. I agree with the investigator that the insurer will need to offer this in the 
form of cash so as not to limit Mr Cs options with what he can do with his compensation. But 
in terms of the amount, Im satisfied that it is fair compensation in the circumstances, and Im 
not persuaded that any further award is warranted in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Allianz Insurance Plc to pay 
£75 compensation to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman