DRN-4028189
The complaint
Miss C complains that Zopa Bank Limited irresponsibly gave her a peer-to-peer loan she 
couldnt afford. 
What happened
In April 2022, Miss C applied for a peer-to-peer loan through Zopa for £20,000. She was 
required to pay 60 monthly repayments of £486.48. In June 2022, Miss C complained to 
Zopa to say she shouldnt have been given the loan. She said that the loan was unaffordable 
and if Zopa had completed appropriate affordability checks it would have seen this too. 
Zopa didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said that it had completed appropriate checks before 
approving the loan which showed that it would be affordable for Miss C. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She considered that Zopa 
should have completed more thorough affordability checks, but even if it had it wouldnt have 
discovered any affordability concerns. 
Miss C didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules and guidance for lenders is set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (known as 
CONC) within the regulators handbook of rules and guidance. Ive had these rules and 
guidance in mind when deciding whether Zopa acted fairly and reasonably. 
Zopa were required to ensure that the borrowing was affordable and sustainable for Miss C. 
There isnt a set list of checks that it had to complete, but it was required to ensure that any 
checks it complete were proportionate. What is considered proportionate will vary as there 
isnt a one-size-fits-all approach. In deciding what is proportionate, Zopa needed to consider 
things such as (but not limited to): The amount borrowed, the size of the regular payments, 
the cost of the credit, the term, the total repayable and the consumers specific 
circumstances.
Miss C declared a monthly income of £3,800 on the application form and Zopa says it 
verified this by using data obtained from a credit reference agency. It also completed a credit 
check which showed that Miss C didnt have any current or previous history of difficulty in 
repaying credit. However, it did show that she had a number of existing unsecured credit 
commitments totalling around £21,100. Further, Miss C declared she was renting and paying 
£1,000 per month for that and that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation. 
Given that Miss C told Zopa that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation, I think it 
was reasonably entitled to assume that is what she would use the loan for. This means Zopa 
were entitled to believe that its loan wasnt going to significantly increase Miss Cs 
unsecured debt and it appeared her existing monthly repayments combined on those debts 
were much higher than what she would be paying back to Zopa. So, a starting point here is 
that the consolidation loan was likely to place Miss C in a better position with her debt 
repayments than she was currently in. 
However, having said this, the loan was sizeable, with large monthly repayments, payable 
over a five year term. While I note Zopa used credit reference agency data to assist in 
verifying Miss Cs declared income, I think it would still have been proportionate for it to have 
asked her more about her other essential committed expenditure. 
I cant be sure what Miss C would have declared, but in the absence of Zopa having asked, 
Ive reviewed copies of her bank statements to determine what she would most likely have 
said. To be clear, I dont think Zopa needed to request bank statements from Miss C, but I 
think the information they contain gives me a good indication of what she would likely have 
declared, if asked. Miss C has also provided us with an income and expenditure document 
she completed for a debt charity in November 2022. She says her financial circumstances 
hadnt changed between when she took out the Zopa loan and filling in that form. 
Having reviewed Miss Cs bank statements, these show her committed essential monthly 
expenditure to be significantly lower than what she had declared on the form for the debt 
charity. However, her bank statements suggest she holds another account she hasnt told us 
about, so its possible her expenditure was higher than I can see. 
Taking into account bills, food, transport costs and household essentials that she declared to 
the debt charity, it seems that Miss C would have had around £700 to use towards her credit 
commitments and other emergency spending. As the Zopa loan was for debt consolidation, it 
would have been reasonable for Zopa to have concluded that her only credit commitment 
would be the monthly payment to Zopa and perhaps another smaller payment to one or two 
other creditors. This would have still left Miss C with enough disposable income to meet her 
essential expenditure with some left over for unexpected costs. So, I dont think Zopa made 
an unfair lending decision. 
Even if I thought Zopa should have questioned things further at this stage and requested 
further evidence, I dont think that would have made a difference to the lending decision. 
I say this because the bank statements show that although Miss Cs rent was £1,000 per 
month, it appears somebody else was paying this for her each month, or at least contributing 
a similar figure towards her bills. I note the credit checks demonstrate she was living with 
someone else at the time. So, it seems likely (given the payments into her account) that 
some or all of the living costs that were identified when I calculated her expenditure were 
shared with someone else. This means she would have had even more disposable income 
available to her. 
Lastly, Miss C says that when she applied for the loan she was suffering from poor mental 
health and that she had no understanding of the implications of taking out the loan. Im sorry 
to hear Miss C wasnt well, however, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Zopa either 
knew about her health or ought to have known. If she is still struggling with her health and 
her ability to repay the loan she should discuss this with Zopa to see what it can do to 
support her and I remind Zopa of its obligations to treat her fairly in relation to her difficulties. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman