DRN-3928558
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) has refused to refund him the money he lost as a 
result of a scam.
Mr C is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr C 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr C came across an investment opportunity through Facebook. While Mr C 
wasnt actively looking to invest the advertisement suggested Mr C would be able to make a 
substantial profit. 
Mr C completed his contact information online and was contacted by the business ETA 
Limited (X). X convinced Mr C that it was offering a genuine investment opportunity and 
explained he could start investing with a small amount before deciding to invest more.
Mr C found some positive online reviews for X and agreed to invest. Mr C was guided 
through the investment process using the screen sharing application AnyDesk that he 
downloaded on Xs request. He was presented with a convincing investment platform where 
he could view his trades and was in regular contact with X. As he could see his investments 
were doing well Mr C invested larger amounts.
Mr C could see he had made a substantial profit on his investment and decided to make a 
withdrawal. At this stage X explained Mr C would first need to make a large payment in 
relation to taxes. Persuaded by the professional approach X adopted Mr C made this 
payment.
Following this payment being made Mr C was still unable to make a withdrawal and was 
again asked for another payment to be made. At this point Mr C realised he had fallen victim 
to a scam.
Mr C made the following payments into the scam via different cryptocurrency exchanges:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
30 June 2022 Coindeck £250 Debit Card
5 July 2022 Coindeck £750 Debit Card
5 July 2022 Skrill (Binance) £1,250 Transfer
7 July 2022 Skrill (Binance) £10,000 Transfer
11 July 2022 Skrill (Binance) £15,000 Transfer
14 July 2022 Skrill (Binance) £7,000 Transfer
18 July 2022 Skrill (Binance) £5,000 Transfer
29 July 2022 Kraken £5,000 Debit Card
7 September 2022 Skrill (Binance) £13,500 Transfer
Mr C has been unable to recover any of the payments he made.
Our Investigator considered Mr Cs complaint and thought it should be upheld. Although he 
also thought Mr C should share responsibility for his loss.
Revolut disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr C has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided
by both Mr C and Revolut sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Revolut
should refund the money Mr C lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr C made
Mr C made payments into the scam via debit card and transfer. The payments went to a 
cryptocurrency exchange and then onto the scammer.
Revolut was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr C made in relation to this 
scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
As the scammer was not a party to the payments, Mr C does not have a valid claim against 
the company he paid. This is because the company provided the service, which was to 
purchase the cryptocurrency. The subsequent transfer to a wallet would not give rise to a 
valid chargeback.
I have considered if Mr C should have received a refund under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But the CRM code only applies when domestic 
payments (as the result of a scam) are sent to another person. Here Mr C sent the payments 
to an account held in his own name and the scam occurred when he moved his purchased 
crypto from that account to the scammer. Im satisfied the CRM code wouldnt apply in this 
scenario.
Overall, Im satisfied Revolut was unable to recover the payments Mr C made.
Should Revolut have prevented the payments Mr C made? 
Mr C has accepted he authorised the payments he made from his account with Revolut, so 
the starting point here is that Mr C is responsible. However, banks and other Payment 
Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money 
laundering.The question here is whether Revolut should have stepped in when Mr C was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
The payments Mr C made were to new payees. But it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say 
Revolut should stop all payments its customers make to new businesses. The first three 
payments Mr C made were relatively low in value and I dont think it was unreasonable that 
these payments didnt trigger Revoluts fraud prevention systems prompting it to step in.
The fourth payment Mr C made in relation to the scam was for a much higher value of 
£10,000 to a cryptocurrency exchange. It wasnt usual for Mr C to make payments of this 
size to this type of business so I think Revoluts fraud prevention systems should have been 
triggered and it should have stepped in and questioned Mr C about the payment.
Had Revolut stepped in and asked Mr C about how the payments had come about I think its 
likely it would have uncovered the scam and been able to prevent this payment and all 
following payments.
I say this because there was a warning on the FCA database about X at the time Mr C made 
the £10,000 payment. Revolut would have known where to look for such warnings and given 
the payments Mr C was making, and the use of the application AnyDesk, it could have 
guided Mr C to the warning. Had Mr C been made aware that the payments he was making 
were likely related to a scam I think its likely he would have stopped making payments.
So, I think Revolut is responsible for the payments Mr C made into the scam from the first 
large payment he made of £10,000 onwards.
Did Mr C contribute to his loss?
Mr C financed some of the investment by taking out a loan and as directed by X he gave an 
incorrect reason for the loan. This isnt unusual in this type of scam as the scammers are 
usually aware loans wont be granted for investment purposes.
I understand X had built a relationship with Mr C and Mr C trusted X, but I dont think it was 
reasonable for Mr C to have given false information on a loan application. Had Mr C 
completed the loan application correctly it is likely the application would have been rejected 
preventing further payments to the scam being made.
Mr C was also receiving large profits on the platform and I think it would have been prudent 
of him to do further research about X considering these profits appeared too good to be true.
 
Considering the above I think it would be fair to reduce compensation by 50%.
Revolut has argued that had it stepped in when I said above Mr C would have likely not 
given correct information about the payments and it wouldnt have been able to prevent the 
scam. But I think this is unlikely, as had Revolut stepped in and asked probing questions I 
think it would have had every chance of preventing Mr C incurring further losses. So, this 
doesnt change my decision.
Putting things right
Revolut Ltd should refund all the payments Mr C made into the scam from and including the 
payment of £10,000 he made on 7 July 2022 less 50%.
Revolut Ltd should add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it pays Mr C from the time 
Mr C made the payments to the time Revolut Ltd provides the refund (less any lawfully 
deductible tax).My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Revolut Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman