DRN-3203514
The complaint
 Mr S complains about Santander UK Plcs actions when reviewing his account.  
What happened
Mr S held an account with Santander.
In March 2021, Santander carried out a review on Mr Ss account and contacted him as part 
of their ongoing Know Your Customer (KYC) checks.
Mr S spoke to Santander on 15 March 2021 and answered a number of questions. The 
advisor then asked Mr S to attend branch with documentation. Mr S did this on 
16 March 2021. The documents were scanned in and sent to the relevant department by 
email. The documents didnt reach the department due to an error with the email address.
Mr S chased Santander on a number of occasions after 16 March 2021 but his account was 
blocked on 26 March 2021 due to the documentation not being received. During one phone 
call with Santander, the advisor informed Mr S that his documentation hadnt been received 
 despite him handing it in to his local branch. 
In April 2021, the email address error was identified, and Mr Ss account was unblocked. 
Mr S was concerned about a potential data breach because his documentation was sent to 
an invalid email address.
Santander upheld Mr Ss complaint  they admitted the error with the email address and the 
delays this caused. Santander offered Mr S £200 compensation.
Mr S didnt think £200 compensation was enough, so he brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator explained that Santander were entitled to review Mr Ss account but thought 
the error with the email address, and the customer service Mr S received during his phone 
calls with them warranted compensation. Our investigator thought the £200 offered by 
Santander was fair and didnt think they needed to pay anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Santander has important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only relate to when an 
account is opened. To comply with their obligations, Santander may need to review an 
account and/or restrict access. I can see thats whats happened with Mr Ss account.
Im pleased to see Mr S complied with the requirements of providing supporting 
documentation to Santander as part of their checks. Im aware Mr S doesnt think the advisor 
was particularly helpful when explaining what documentation would be needed  but I cant 
fairly agree. While the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set the rules for how businesses 
need to verify their customers, it doesnt provide a prescriptive list of acceptable documents 
that businesses can use. Thats for each individual business to decide. In Mr Ss case, 
Santander referred to a contract  Mr S then queried what sort of contract and Santander 
explained a contract of work, such as if youre employed by someone and have a contract 
with them. I can appreciate Mr Ss concern that a specific type of document wasnt named, 
but I think Santander gave an appropriate explanation to allow Mr S to provide what he 
thought was suitable.
When Mr S provided his documentation, the Santander branch advisor incorrectly typed in 
the email address which resulted in the email, and Mr Ss personal documents, not reaching 
the relevant department. This not only caused a delay in Mr Ss KYC checks being 
completed and resulted in a block being applied to his account  but also raised a concern 
for Mr S on who may have accessed his personal information. Its not my role to determine 
whether Santander has breached data protection laws  thats a matter for the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). Mr S is free to contact the ICO, should he wish to do so. My 
role is to consider whether Santander did anything wrong  and if they did, how they should 
put things right.
Its not in dispute that the email address was typed in incorrectly. Im satisfied this caused 
delays in Mr Ss information being received, and consequently resulted in his account being 
blocked. Due to this, I feel compensation is warranted to recognise the inconvenience 
caused to Mr S. Ive also thought about the loss of use of the money held in Mr Ss account 
because he couldnt use it. However, Mr S has confirmed this wasnt his main account  and 
the evidence Ive received shows that a low balance of around £3 was held in the account at 
the time of the block. Therefore, I dont agree there would have been a big impact on Mr S 
not being able to access the money so dont feel Santander need to add interest to the 
balance held in the account.
Mr S also spent time contacting Santander to try and rectify the issue. Ive listened to the 
relevant phone calls and agree the service from Santander on 6 April 2021 fell short. The 
advisor incorrectly told Mr S his documentation hadnt been received, and persistently told 
him she would send him a link to upload his documentation despite Mr S confirming he 
wasnt going to do that. I do believe this would have added to Mr Ss overall distress with the 
situation and have therefore considered this as part of the overall compensation.
Putting things right
 Overall, Santander were entitled to carry out KYC checks and ask Mr S for documentation. 
However, I do consider the block was applied as a result of an error made by Santander and 
think their customer service could have been better.
The block was applied to Mr Ss account for around 11 days, and Ive no doubt this would 
have caused some distress. However, the account held a particularly low balance, and it 
wasnt Mr Ss main account. Ive also considered the time Mr S spent trying to sort things 
out, and the poor customer service he received.
Having considered the full circumstances of this complaint, I consider the £200 
compensation offered to be a reasonable reflection of the inconvenience caused. Because of 
that, I dont consider an increased compensation is warranted.
My final decision For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
If they havent done so already, Santander UK Plc should pay Mr S £200 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman