DRN-3860812
The complaint
Miss S has complained about her let property insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in 
response to a landlord emergency claim she made on her policy.
UKI is the underwriter for Miss Ss whole policy, even the landlord element. However, UKI 
uses another company to administer the landlord emergencies section of cover on its behalf. 
As the administration is done on behalf of UKI, UKI is responsible for that company and any 
failings by it.
What happened
Miss S was made aware of a problem with the boiler at the property she lets on 
18 December 2021. She made a claim to UKI and an engineer attended the next day and 
found that a part was required. The part was ordered but had an estimated delivery date of 
31 December 2021.
On 24 December 2021 a leak was found on the boiler and reported to UKI. An appointment 
for an engineer to attend was arranged for 26 December 2021, but Miss S sought to 
rearrange it for 27 December 2021. Some confusion and poor communication then occurred 
and it was 31 December before an engineer attended to the leak  noting that another new 
part would be needed and meanwhile the delivery of the original part had been delayed. It 
was into January 2022 before the new parts were fitted but then a further leak was noted. 
UKI then decided that it wasnt economical to further repair the boiler. 
Miss S was unhappy. She said the month or so without heating or hot water had been very 
difficult and stressful for her as the landlord, but also for her tenants. Especially with the cold 
weather. Miss S paid the tenants £350 compensation and asked UKI to reimburse this to 
her. She also paid for the tenants to have somewhere warm to shower (when they werent 
staying at the hotel) and for some electric heaters. She noted that only a few days alternative 
accommodation had been provided for the tenants and felt there had likely been a shortfall 
against the policy cover. Miss S noted she would now have to repair the boiler and replace 
the kitchen worktop  both of which she felt were only necessary due to the delays and poor 
claim handling of UKI. 
UKI accepted that there had been some poor communication and errors during the claim. It 
said it would offer Miss S £400 compensation and reimburse the costs incurred for the 
heaters and showering. It noted some misinformation had been given to Miss S about the 
policy limit for alternative accommodation at one stage. UKI didnt accept that it was liable for 
the boiler. And regarding the worktop it felt that had been fitted incorrectly in the first place  
at the join, which had likely allowed water in. It also felt the join had been open for some time 
as it had debris in it. So UKI wasnt prepared to contribute to Miss Ss cost for replacing the 
boiler or the worktop. 
Following Miss S complaining to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator 
considered her complaint. She felt UKI had failed Miss S in how it had handled the claim  
but she was satisfied with its view that it was unlikely for the boiler and worktop to have been 
affected as a result. She noted that all bar £2.00 of the policy limit for alternative 
accommodation had been paid by UKI for the tenants to stay in a hotel, and that it had paid 
Miss S for costs she had paid to provide the tenant with somewhere to shower and for the 
purchase of heaters. She felt that was reasonable in the circumstances especially as she 
didnt think it had been responsible for the entire period of delay. She also felt the 
compensation  which she explained that in this complaint we could only look at in respect of 
Miss Ss upset, not that caused to her tenants  was fair and reasonable. 
Miss S said she felt the situation was incredibly unfair. She said despite all of UKIs 
inefficiencies in repairing the boiler, the tenants had only been given five nights stay in a 
hotel and the temperatures had been freezing at the time. She maintained that the 
inefficiencies and sheer number of engineers handling the boiler over the period of repairs 
had made it uneconomical to repair. She said the worktop had definitely not been damaged 
as it is now before the leak went unresolved. Miss S suggested that our Investigators 
outcome meant that the Investigator must think UKI had handled the claim fairly, which 
Miss S disputed. Her complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Miss S has offers her limited cover of £300 for tenants to stay in a hotel when the 
property is uninhabitable. And Miss S and her tenants benefitted from that cover here. The 
policy also says that UKI wont pay for repairing a boiler where repair would cost more than it 
would cost to replace it, and that UKI wont pay for any cost to replace a boiler. I note the 
age of the boiler, the recent repair and fault history. Im also mindful that UKIs plumber felt 
that more problems may well arise with the boiler upon completion of a further repair 
(incurring further costs). On balance, I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably in line with the 
policy when it decided to view the boiler as beyond economic repair. 
But what the policy requires and entitles Miss S to doesnt limit UKIs liability for her losses 
when it has failed her in handling a claim. So I need to think about what happened and 
decide if UKI has any liability to Miss S outside of the policy.
I think its fair to say, as UKI and our Investigator accepted, that Miss Ss claim wasnt 
handled fairly or reasonably by UKI via its agent. Clearly UKI accepts that it got some 
instructions muddled for visiting engineers. It is also very clear that it did not communicate 
well with Miss S  not providing call backs when promised and that she had to wait on the 
line for long periods often resulting in the call disconnecting or her hanging up. I accept that 
this was very frustrating for Miss S and that she was experiencing this on top of the 
understandable worry she had for her tenants. However, I bear in mind that the boiler issue and then the leak from the boiler came at the 
time of the holiday period. Im conscious a part was initially needed  and that UKI could not 
control the supply of that part, including how long that would take to arrive. Im further 
mindful that Miss S could have had the leak, identified on the 24 December 2021, assessed 
on 26 December 2021  but she sought to change the appointment. And even if the 
appointment had occurred a little earlier than it actually did, the further new part would still 
have been needed. Finally, I know that where old boilers are concerned it is not unusual for 
one repair to be followed by a further leak or failure of a different part. So Im not persuaded 
that any failure of UKI caused the claim(s) to be unavoidably delayed throughout the 
Christmas and New Year period. And nor am I persuaded that UKI was responsible for the 
boiler ultimately being declared beyond economic repair, which, as Ive said, I think was a 
fair and reasonable decision by it in the circumstances.
Ive seen photos of the worktop. And Miss Ss estimate for replacement from a handyman. 
Ive also taken into account UKIs view that the worktop wasnt fitted/jointed well and that the 
join has been open for some time. Im mindful that a joint like this  where it is open, does 
not provide a water-resistant finish to the worksurface. I can see from the photos that there is 
debris in the join which might suggest it has been open for a little while. And Miss S hasnt 
provided any evidence to show the worktop did not look like this before the problems with 
the boiler occurred. In any event, from UKIs notes it seems that the leak identified on 
24 December and assessed on 31 December was only minor  I think it would have been 
quite easy for the worktop area below the boiler to have been protected. Which I think should 
reasonably have been done given the tenants and Miss S knew there was a leak on-going. 
Im satisfied that UKIs refusal to cover the cost of replacing the worktop was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
I know that UKI reimbursed Miss Ss costs for the tenants to shower elsewhere, when they 
werent in the hotel, and for the purchase of heaters, to make the home more comfortable. 
I think that was fair and reasonable of it, as it is likely that the claims progress would have 
been less protracted if it had managed things better. And I think paying for these things 
outside of the policy makes up for the minor £2.00 shortfall in the limit available on the policy 
for alternative accommodation and the hotel costs UKI paid for. 
I see that UKI also offered Miss S £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think 
that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I know Miss S has paid her tenants 
compensation  but as our Investigator explained we cant take her tenants upset into 
account in this complaint. But in handling the claim poorly UKI did cause Miss S, its 
policyholder, distress and inconvenience. I accept that Miss S had to put in a lot of extra 
effort to try and progress the claim, a good portion of which was wasted as she was often 
unable to get through to UKI. I also accept, as noted above that Miss S was worried about 
her tenants, and likely the impact on her property too. I accept that she was also left 
worrying about the effect all this would have on her previously good relationship with her 
tenants. Im satisfied that £400 compensation is in line with other awards made by this 
service in similar circumstances so, in my view, its fair and reasonable. 
I note that UKI only offered the sum of £400 to Miss S, it wasnt paid to her. As Im satisfied 
that this sum is fairly and reasonably due to Miss S as compensation for her upset caused 
by UKIs failures, Ill award it here.
My final decision
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Miss S a total of £400 compensation.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman