DRN-2896401
The complaint
Miss B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund £300 she says was retracted 
by a cash machine (ATM).
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In July 2020, Miss B says she attempted to withdraw £300 from an ATM.  She says the cash 
was dispended but, was retracted by the ATM.  Miss B contacted Monzo about this, which 
initially refunded the £300 to Miss Bs account.  However, following a chargeback claim, 
Monzo debited this amount, which Miss B complained about.
Monzo responded to Miss Bs complaint stating that it had raised a chargeback, but the card 
scheme provider ruled the dispute in favour of the ATM provider.  Because of this, Monzo 
said it isnt obliged to offer a refund as the dispute wasnt ruled in Miss Bs favour.
Unhappy with this response, Miss B referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  He concluded that Monzo 
shouldve requested further information  such as the purge box report  during its 
investigation.  He said without this, he couldnt conclude, on balance, whether the £300 had 
been removed from the ATM slot or retracted after it had been dispensed.  For these 
reasons, he asked Monzo to refund to Miss B £300 with 8% interest.
Miss B accepted the investigators findings, but Monzo didnt.  In short, it said that the 
transaction was authorised and the cash had been dispensed.  It said what happened to the 
cash after it was in the ATM slot ready for collection was not its responsibility.  It added if the 
purge bin/box showed the £300 had been retained, this amount wouldve re-credited Miss 
Bs account if not taken.  
As no agreement could be reached, Monzo requested a decision.
Prior to issuing this decision, I wrote to Monzo.  In short, I said that I didnt find the evidence 
it relied on to be satisfactory  particularly given the fact it doesnt show whether the cash 
had been retracted by the ATM.  I also said I found Miss Bs testimony following the 
attempted ATM withdrawal to be persuasive.  Monzos position, broadly, is that it carried out 
its obligations under the chargeback rules and that it shouldnt be held liable for the 
negligence of Miss B.  Monzo added that requiring it to provide the evidence concerned, is 
unfair and excessively onerous.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail 
than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If there is 
a submission Ive not addressed, it isnt because Ive ignored the point.  Its simply because 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
I do acknowledge that Monzo says it has followed the chargeback process and that the rules 
dont require it to request information such as the purge bin/box in ATM disputes.  However, 
when applying my fair and reasonable remit, I must consider whether Monzo took 
reasonable steps to request technical evidence showing whether the £300 had been 
retracted by the ATM, as per Miss Bs testimony.
On the day in question, Miss B explains that she was expecting an important call from her 
doctors surgery.  She says when she had completed her transaction at the ATM and was 
awaiting the £300 to be dispensed, her surgery called, which she answered.  She says whilst 
she was talking on her phone, the cash was dispensed, but then retracted.  Having 
considered Miss Bs testimony, I find it to be more persuasive than the evidence (or lack of) 
provided by Monzo.  I say this because:
Monzo didnt request any technical evidence to show that the £300 had not been 
retracted by the ATM.  This information can no longer be obtained due to the 
passage of time.  I see no reason why Monzo couldnt have requested this evidence 
at the time considering Miss Bs complaint.  It follows then that without this evidence, 
I cant be certain that Miss Bs £300 withdrawal was successful.
Miss Bs testimony is plausible and has been consistent throughout  both to Monzo 
and to this service.
Miss B attempted at least one further withdrawal for £300 after the one concerned, 
which was unsuccessful.  I find this particularly persuasive as it supports Miss Bs 
testimony that the initial £300 was retracted by the ATM, hence her further attempt 
for the same amount.
From what I can see, Miss B requested CCTV footage of the event concerned.  I 
consider it unlikely that she would request such footage in the circumstances if she 
was being untruthful.
When there are two competing versions of events put forward by the parties involved in a 
complaint, I must consider whatever evidence is available.  I then weigh this evidence 
against the balance of probabilities to decide whats more likely to have happened in the 
circumstances.  Having done this here, I consider it more likely than not that the £300 was 
retracted by the ATM.  
So, taking all the above factors together  Monzo should refund to Miss B £300 with 8% 
interest, as she has been deprived of this money.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund to Miss B the amount of the attempted ATM withdrawal (£300);
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from her account until 
the date of settlement; andIf Monzo Bank Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Miss B with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman