DRN-1461776
The complaint
Mr L complains that in 2017 Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to close his account 
when requested to do so, leading to the account becoming overdrawn and incurring charges. 
Further, that Barclays failed to provide him with copy statements despite repeated requests 
to do so.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr L and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In November 2017 Mr L went into branch to close his business and personal accounts. He 
paid money into his personal account and transferred money from his business account to 
his personal account. The net result was that at that time there was a small credit balance on 
his personal account. From his perspective both accounts had been closed, but in fact a 
Regular Payment went out on the 1 December causing the account to go back into overdraft. 
And after that, further Regular Payments continued to be paid from the account. In March 
2018 he noticed that the personal account remained open and had gone into overdraft and 
incurred charges. 
Upon complaint to Barclays, it paid Mr L £100 for all the trouble and upset caused in not 
closing the accounts, refunded all overdraft charges that had been incurred (£84), and 
cancelled the Regular Payments. Barclays also say it explained to Mr L that it could do an 
indemnity claim for all the Regular Payments made if he wished, although that could result 
 in the various merchants contacting Mr L. Barclays said they heard nothing further from Mr 
L and so passed the account to their collections team. 
Mr L was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so brought the complaint to this 
service and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator agreed there had 
poor service in respect of Barclays failing to close the accounts, but thereafter Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong and acted fairly in refunding the charges. He thought the 
amount of compensation offered for the trouble and upset was sufficient to put things right. 
Mr L didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that 
Barclays has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
It is clear that Mr L wanted to close his accounts in November 2017, and that Barclays made 
an error in not doing so. They have accepted that and credited £100 in compensation to his 
account, and refunded the charges unnecessarily incurred. Apart from the level of 
compensation paid, Mr Ls complaint concerns the events which then followed since he 
asked for bank statements in order to review his account, but never received them, and as 
he didnt pay the debt to Barclays his account incurred further charges.
Mr L had a conversation with Barclays in March 2018. It was at that time that Barclays 
explained to him the reasons for the error, and made the offer of recompense. It also 
explained the process of an indemnity claim, although I note Mr L doesnt remember that. 
Barclays also wrote to Mr L in April 2018 with its final response setting out that he could 
make an indemnity claim and putting him on notice that further charges would be added to 
the account if the balance was not cleared. I understand Mr L did not receive that letter and 
whilst I have no reason to doubt him, equally Ive no reason to doubt Barclays did send it. 
The letter also records the detail of the conversation in March. 
On balance I think it more likely than not that Barclays did explain that procedure to him, and 
he naturally said hed like to think about it first. So I am satisfied Mr L would have been fully 
aware of the position he was then in, and he would also know that at that time he owed 
Barclays a sizeable amount of money which they wanted repaying. Mr L did not get back in 
touch with Barclays for many months which resulted in their collections team becoming 
involved. I appreciate Mr L said he went to work in the USA but I cant see that would have 
meant he was unable to contact Barclays to discuss the matter. Mr L also accepts that he 
received many reminders from Barclays but chose not to do anything about them until he 
received the bank statements he had requested. 
Mr L says he did not receive those bank statements until November 2019, but even then he 
did not get the correct business bank account statement. On that latter point I cant see that 
the non provision of the business bank account statement has any bearing, since the 
complaint centres on the failure to close the personal bank account and the charges incurred 
thereon. Mr L says he made multiple requests, verbally for bank statements, but Barclays 
records do not corroborate that. What Barclays records do however show is that it sent Mr L 
the statements in November 2017, and again although Mr L says he didnt get them, Im 
satisfied they were sent.
Having reviewed his bank statements Mr L accepts the Regular Payments were ones he had 
authorised, albeit he had intended to cancel them. Ive looked at the statements and can see 
that the Regular Payments were ones to credit card companies, a national magazine, and a 
national vehicle recovery service. It seems to me that Mr L would have been aware, or ought 
to have been aware, that he was making those payments and receiving the benefits of them. 
So Im satisfied that Mr L would know that the balance Barclays was telling him was due, 
was in fact a legitimate sum.
Barclays has accepted that it didnt get things right in not closing the accounts when 
instructed and because of that it should compensate Mr L. And so it has already paid Mr L 
£100 and refunded the charges incurred on the account up to the point it sent its final 
response letter. In my view Mr L was then aware he owed Barclays the money on the 
account and ought to have either commenced the Indemnity claim or repaid the balance owed. As he did neither then I accept that it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to add 
further charges to his account, since they warned him they would do so, and it was also fair 
that they then passed the account to their recoveries department. I acknowledge Mr L didnt 
receive some correspondence, although he did receive reminders, but the balance of 
evidence shows Barclays sent him the statements and the final response letter, so I cant 
say they have been unfair there either.
As Mr L doesnt believe Barclays offer of recompense  is sufficient to put matters right, Ive 
given this some further thought and in so doing Ive considered the level of awards this 
service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases. Ive also taken into account, in the 
light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to have had on Mr L. Putting all of this into 
the balance I think what Barclays paid is fair and reasonable. And I think it is enough to put 
matters right.
So, although Mr L will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst Barclays did 
indeed make an error, I cant say Barclays has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Barclays has already paid £100 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So 
my final decision is that I dont require Barclays to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman