DRN-1622922
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) was unfair when it wouldnt 
allow her to take out a new interest rate product due to her age. Shes also concerned about 
the remaining term of her mortgage, which expires when shes 107. 
What happened
Mrs W took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2008. She says she didnt know the term was 40 
years  by the time the mortgage expires she will be 107. Mrs W is worried shell die before 
the mortgage is repaid, leaving her children to deal with the debt. In 2019 Mrs W was unable 
to apply online for a new interest rate product, which she says is because shell be 80 before 
the end of the product term.
Mrs W says Halifax hasnt treated her fairly, especially as her age makes her financially 
vulnerable. Shed like the term changed and a new interest rate product. 
An ombudsman issued a decision saying were unable to look into Mrs Ws complaint that 
the mortgage was mis-sold in 2008 as she hadnt brought this part of her complaint to us 
within our time limits. But we can look into whether Halifax has been fair in its more recent 
dealings with Mrs W. 
Our investigator said Halifax hadnt acted unfairly. Halifax said some customers cant get a 
new rate online due to their circumstances. Halifax said Mrs W could have a new product 
and to call or visit a branch if she had any further problems getting a new rate so it could do 
this for her. The investigator said Mrs W hadnt tried to re-apply online or contacted Halifax, 
and so Halifax hadnt had an opportunity to put matters right. 
Mrs W said this wasnt right. She said she called Halifax in July 2019 and was told it wouldnt 
re-consider its decision not to give her a new fixed rate product. She said given the way 
shed been treated by Halifax shed wait for an ombudsmans decision before contacting it 
again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws fixed rate product ended in July 2019 and she applied, unsuccessfully, for a new 
product online. 
Halifax says some customers circumstances mean they cant always secure new products 
through online applications. It says new products are available to Mrs W and she can apply 
by telephone or at her branch. Halifax provided a note of a call with Mrs W when it says it 
told her this. 
I think theres been some misunderstanding here. Mrs W says she was told by Halifaxs 
complaint handler that it wouldnt change its decision. She thought the complaint handler 
was referring to the new product. I think the complaint handler was referring to Halifaxs 
decision about whether to look into Mrs Ws complaint that the mortgage was mis-sold in 
2008. Thats consistent with the letter it sent after the call.
Halifax says Mrs W can apply for a new interest rate, and can do so by phone or at a branch 
if she has difficulty applying online. So, while I appreciate that Mrs W was upset when she 
couldnt apply for a new product online, Halifax offered ways for her to apply for a new 
product. I think thats fair.
Mrs W is concerned about the remaining term, and the possibility her children will have to 
deal with the mortgage account when she dies. However, to reduce the remaining term and 
repay the mortgage sooner, Mrs W would have to increase her monthly payments. Halifaxs 
notes say Mrs W told it she couldnt afford to do this. 
Rules on mortgage regulation require Halifax to assess affordability before it can agree to 
vary Mrs Ws mortgage. While there are exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 
2014, as Mrs Ws was, Mrs W would need to provide information to Halifax so it can assess 
whether changing the term would be in her best interests. I cant fairly require Halifax to 
change the term of Mrs Ws mortgage  or say that it was wrong not to do so  when it 
hasnt had an opportunity to do this.
Mrs W could ask to discuss her circumstances in more detail with Halifax to establish 
whether a shorter term would be affordable. She could also consider seeking independent 
financial advice, to explore her options. If shes thinking of changing her mortgage, she might 
want to bear in mind that a new interest rate product is likely to include an early repayment 
charge.
Mrs W says she intends to seek legal advice about the mortgage. If she doesnt accept my 
decision, she will be free to take the matter to court if she chooses to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman