DRN-4186088
The complaint
Mr K complains that NewDay Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr K applied for a credit card with NewDay in November 2018. He opened the account with 
a £450 credit limit. Over the course of the agreement the credit limit was increased four 
times until the limit was £3,900.
Mr K says that he wasnt financially stable enough to have the credit and that if NewDay had 
completed thorough checks on his circumstances it would have seen that he was knee-deep 
in payday loans.
Mr K complained to NewDay. It upheld part of his complaint. It agreed that it shouldnt have 
provided him with additional credit from 28 December 2021 when it increased his limit from 
£2,550 to £3,300. NewDay refunded interest and charges that Mr K incurred as a result of 
the additional credit from that point.
Mr K didnt agree that this was a fair settlement, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. They couldnt identify anything NewDay had 
done anything wrong in its lending decisions up to 27 December 2021.
Mr K disagreed. As Mr K did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I havent seen 
evidence that NewDay acted unfairly and lent to Mr K irresponsibly in relation to any of the 
lending decisions up to the point at which NewDay upheld his complaint. Ill explain why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount, Mr Ks borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
NewDay says Mr K declared an income of £22,000 at the time of account opening. It says 
that Mr Ks credit file showed he had no defaults or CCJs and had around £5,400 in 
unsecured debt. It says this showed that it was reasonable to lend to Mr K in the way that it 
did.
On this basis, and given the relatively low level of lending compared to Mr Ks income and 
existing borrowing, I think NewDay completed proportionate checks and made a fair decision 
to lend to Mr K.
Mr Ks credit limit was reduced to £300 in November 2020. This happened because Mr K 
made a late payment the month before. However, Mr K got his account in order quickly and 
made more than minimum payments in the following three months. 
In April 2021 Mr Ks credit limit was increased by £750 to £1,050. NewDay has provided 
evidence of the results of the checks it did at the time and I can see that Mr Ks external 
credit was unexceptional and there was no evidence of recent difficulties. However, given 
that it was a large increase relative to his existing borrowing, and he had recently missed a 
payment, I think NewDay ought to have got a better understanding of Mr Ks financial 
circumstances before it increased his limit.
There is no prescriptive list of checks a business should do, so I dont know exactly how 
NewDay might have chosen to obtain that better understanding of Mr Ks circumstances. In 
the absence of anything else, I think its reasonable to rely on Mr Ks bank statements from 
the time to understand what NewDay might have found out.
Having reviewed these statements, which Mr K kindly provided, I can see that Mr Ks income 
was around £1,550 a month and his committed expenditure was around £575. So if NewDay 
had seen this I think it would still have made the same decision to increase Mr Ks credit limit 
because it would have seen evidence to show that Mr K could afford the additional credit. I 
can see that Mr K was paying back some short term lending, but this didnt seem to be 
problematic, and Mr K was generally in credit.
The same applies to the decision to increase Mr Ks credit limit to £2,550 in August 2021. 
Taking the same approach, Mr Ks bank statements show that Mr Ks income was around 
£1,600 and his committed expenditure was about £360 each month. While he was gambling 
quite heavily, spending on average £570 a month, this still left Mr K with ample disposable 
income to meet his increased repayments. 
So, on this basis, I dont think NewDay acted unfairly when it decided to lend to Mr K or 
when it increased his credit limit up to £2,550. 
NewDay has already paid Mr K compensation in relation to the later credit limit increases, so 
I have not reviewed Mr Ks circumstances at that time. NewDay paid compensation in line 
with that which this service would have directed had Mr Ks complaint been upheld by this 
service.
I also note that Mr K opened two other accounts with NewDay while he still had the first 
credit card. But Mr K didnt use either of these, so even if they were provided to him unfairly, 
he has suffered no loss as a result.
This means that, on balance, I cant be satisfied that Mr K lost out as a result of anything 
NewDay did wrong. My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. It follows that 
NewDay Ltd does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman