DRN-3466760
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) as of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 18 March 2020, Mr C was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. He paid a deposit of £21,971.75 and the agreement was for £59,883.25 over 49 
months; with 48 monthly repayments of £666.03 and a final payment of £40,280. 
Mr C said that he started to experience problems with the car shortly after taking possession 
of it  there were issues with the interior lighting and the air conditioning, damage to the rear 
bumper, the high beam assist didnt work, and there was a knocking noise from both the 
engine. While most of these issues were eventually resolved, the noise from the engine 
persisted.
Mr C raised his complaints with the supplying dealership and with VWFS. But VWFS said 
the engine noise hadnt been identified as a fault. However, they did offer him a goodwill 
gesture of £717 as hed experienced other issues with the car. Mr C wasnt happy with this 
response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the car was inspected by two engineers, in June 2020 and September 
2021, and they both agreed there was a knocking noise coming from the fuel injectors. Both 
engineers also agreed this wasnt a normal engine noise. The investigator believed this 
indicated a fault with the car, that had been present or developing when the car was supplied 
to Mr C. So, he thought this made the car of unsatisfactory quality.
As the supplying dealership had been given multiple attempts to fix the problem, the 
investigator said Mr C should be allowed to reject the car. And VWFS should refund Mr Cs 
deposit and the money hed paid for new wheels and tyres (plus statutory interest), as well 
as paying him £500 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think was fair that the car was in repair for a 
total of 13-weeks, and he was provided with an unsuitable smaller vehicle on every 
occasion. Especially as he said he was paying £715 a month to VWFS. Hes calculated it 
cost him £1,840.30 while the car was being repaired. And he believes he should be 
compensated £2,000 for the stress and inconvenience my family and I have had to bare 
[sic]. Hes also said that he paid £3,840 for alterations to the car, and he thinks this should 
be refunded.
VWFS also didnt agree with the investigator. They said there was no proven fault with the 
car, so they dont believe they need to take any action. They also didnt agree with being 
asked to refund Mr C the cost of the new wheels and tyres, as it was his choice to replace 
these on the car.
I reviewed the case in full and, on 27 April 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In that 
decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, VWFS 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless VWFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, its for Mr C to show that it was present when the car was supplied. So, if 
I thought the car was faulty when Mr C took possession of it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the records from the supplying dealership. These show Mr C first raised 
the issue of the engine noise on 13 July 2020, when they recorded that the car had done just 
16 miles. The dealership said the engine noise sounds like fuel injectors pinking noise. 
However, after carrying out tests, they deemed this to be normal operating noise. 
The dealership kept the car and, on 24 July 2020 (when they recorded the mileage to be 
3,158 miles) they calibrated the injectors and updated the software to try and fix the interior 
lighting issue (which Mr C says wasnt fixed until 24 August 2020, as it was a wiring loom 
problem). They then inspected the car on 1 September 2020; on 5 August 2021, when they 
chose not to do a road test; and on 4 January 2022, when they carried out tests and repairs.
The records also show that the dealership carried out a warranty repair for an unrecorded 
problem on 16 March 2021 (7,301 miles); that they investigated a sporadic fault with the self-
levelling suspension sensor on 22 March 2021 (7,491 miles); that they investigated a noise 
from the suspension and brakes on 5 August 2021 (12,897 miles); and they dealt with an 
issue with a wheel and the rear bumper on 4 October 2021 (12,871 miles).
While I dont think the mileage recorded by the dealership can be relied upon, as the mileage 
they recorded for 4 October 2021 is lower than the mileage they recorded for 5 August 2021, 
and the recorded mileage jumped from 16 miles to 3,158 miles between 13 and 24 July 2020 
while the car was in their possession; Im satisfied their records show an ongoing problem 
with the engine noise, which they investigated on at least four occasions.
Mr C provided a video of the car, recorded in August 2021, which shows a distinct engine 
noise. Hes also provided a report from an independent engineer, dated 14 September 2021, 
when the car had done 12,689 miles. This report covered all the issues with the car Mr C 
was complaining about, and said:
there was a pronounced interior rattle caused by poorly fitted plastic trim, which the 
engineer said related to when the interior wiring was fixed;
that Mr Cs video indicated a very loud noise akin to injector noise but the 
dealership recalibrated the injectors which appears to be successful and during the 
entire examination whether idling or being driven no unusual noises were heard;there was an intermittent noise when driving in the straight-ahead wheel position, but 
an inspection of the visible steering components revealed no problems;
the passenger mirror was faulty, and didnt dip when reverse was selected; and
there was a fault with the keyless entry system.
The engineer also said they there were no identified faults with the suspension warning 
lights, brakes, oil leaks, or exterior lights. And, with regards to the car lacking power, there 
was a discernible difference in power delivery is evident when changing between various 
driving modes suggesting the system is functioning correctly.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied there was a problem with the car when it was supplied 
to Mr C. I say this because, in July 2020, the dealership said there was a noise from the fuel 
injectors. Although they said it was a normal operating noise, they still took action to fix this. 
Mr C remained unhappy, and in September 2020 the independent engineer said the video 
Mr C had supplied indicated the noise from the injectors that couldnt be replicated under 
test conditions. Which would indicate an intermittent issue.
Whats more, the dealership fixed a problem with the interior ambient lighting, which was 
caused by a fault in the wiring loom. However, as confirmed by the independent engineer, 
the trim wasnt refitted correctly after repair, which has caused a pronounced interior rattle. 
So, it would be reasonable for me to conclude that this repair wasnt carried out to a 
satisfactory quality.
In addition to this, there are problems with the passenger door mirror not dipping when 
reverse is selected, and with the keyless entry system not working properly.
Mr C was supplied with a brand-new car. So, Id expect the car to be of a satisfactory quality, 
and free from any defects. Ive also taken into consideration the price of the car, as the more 
expensive the car, the fewer very minor issues Id expect to be present.
As stated above, there were issues with the car that are either still intermittently present 
since supply or were fixed but not to a satisfactory standard. In addition, its reasonable for 
me to conclude that the issues with the mirror and keyless entry were either present or 
developing when the car was supplied, or that they developed within the first 18-months Mr 
C was in possession of the car. And, if it was the latter, this brings into question the durability 
of the car.
So, taking all the above into consideration, Im satisfied that the car wasnt of a satisfactory 
quality when supplied. And, as the dealership have attempted to repair the faults on more 
than one occasion, then Mr C should be allowed to reject the car.
After being supplied with the car, Mr C paid £3,840 for dechroming and wrapping of the trim, 
replacement decal badges, tinted windows, and replacement alloy wheels and tyres. And he 
thinks the cost of this should be refunded to him. However, I disagree. While the investigator 
has said these alterations may reduce the value of the car, I havent seen that VWFS were 
asked about, or agreed to, the alterations.
As the car was supplied on a hire purchase basis, it remains the property of VWFS until the 
final payment has been made. And, in the meantime, Mr C is renting the car. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr C shouldve obtained authority from VWFS for making any physical changes 
to the car. And, as he didnt, I dont think that VWFS should have to pay for these. It's my understanding that Mr C is still in possession of the original alloys and tyres that 
came with the car. If this is the case, then he should be given the opportunity to put these 
back on the car before its returned. And he can then reuse or dispose of the new alloys and 
tyres hes purchased as he sees fit.
Mr C has also explained the issues hes had with the courtesy cars he was provided with. 
And that they were too small for his use. Hes said this has cost him £1,840.30, but he hasnt 
explained how these costs were actually incurred or provided any evidence of paying them.
Mr C has also said the smaller courtesy car caused stress and inconvenience to his family. 
While I dont doubt that this was the case, the agreement was in Mr Cs sole name. So, Im 
only able to consider the impact the smaller courtesy car had on him, and not on others. 
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigator that having a smaller car than he was 
paying for, for an extended period, wouldve caused Mr C some trouble and inconvenience. 
And I think the £500 recommended by the investigator is reasonable in these circumstances.
However, if, as part of his comments on my provisional decision, Mr C can provide evidence 
of the £1,840.30 having the smaller courtesy car has cost him, along with proof of payment, 
then Ill also be asking VWFS to refund this to him.
Therefore, Im minded to ask VWFS to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car, at no cost to Mr C;
refund the £21,971.75 deposit Mr C paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr C paid the 
deposit to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr C an additional £500 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWFS must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Responses
VWFS said they felt the evidence theyd submitted showed there was no inherent fault with 
the car, and they didnt understand how I could conclude that the car should be rejected. 
However, they also said they had no additional evidence to provide and, as such, accepted 
my provisional decision.
Mr C said that hed worked out itd cost him £1,840.30 for the 11 weeks the car had been in 
for repair, when hed had a courtesy car that wasnt a like-for-like. And he explained why 
hed chosen the car he did, as it was suitable for his family.
Mr C also said that hed paid for the modifications to the car, and that it wasnt his fault that 
the car turned out to be faulty. He didnt think these modifications had damaged the car, and 
that the car could be restored to its original condition. So, he didnt think it was fair that he 
should bear the cost of the modifications now the car is being returned.
Finally, in addition to the £1,840 and the costs of the modifications, Mr C thought he should 
also be compensated £2,000 for the stress and inconvenience my family and I have had to 
bare [sic] throughout the whole dilemma.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the evidence shows faults with the car that were 
present when it was supplied, or that had developed within 18-months of the car being 
supplied. Given this, I remain satisfied that the car was either insufficiently durable or was 
not of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And, as such, Mr C should be allowed to reject it.
Ive noted Mr Cs comments about the £1,840 costs hes said he incurred because of 
unsuitable courtesy cars being provided. In my provisional decision I gave Mr C the 
opportunity to submit evidence of these costs. But, as he hasnt done so, I wont be asking 
VWFS to reimburse Mr C for this.
Mr C has also referred to the modifications hes had done to the car. As I explained, these 
were done without the authority of VWFS. While Mr C believes the car can be returned to its 
original condition, there will be a cost involved in this. So, as the modifications were 
unauthorised, I dont think its fair that VWFS both reimburse Mr C for the work hed had 
done, and then bear any costs for the car to be restored. So, I wont be asking VWFS to 
reimburse Mr C for this. And, as I said in my provisional decision, Mr C should be given the 
opportunity to put the original wheels and tyres back on the car before its returned. And he 
can sell or reuse the wheels and tyres he paid for if he wishes.
Finally, Ive already addressed Mr Cs request for £2,000 within my provisional decision. And 
Mr C hasnt provided anything to show that he was personally caused any additional distress 
or inconvenience that I was previously unaware of. As such, I wont be recommending any 
increase in the compensation.
Putting things right
So, given the above, VWFS should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car, at no cost to Mr C;
refund the £21,971.75 deposit Mr C paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr C paid the 
deposit to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr C an additional £500 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWFS must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman