DRN-3881205
The complaint
Mr D complains about a conditional sale agreement, which he says was fraudulently taken 
out in his name with Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers. 
Throughout Mr Ds complaint with us, he has been represented by a family member. But for 
ease, Ill just refer to Mr D.
What happened
In November 2015, a conditional sale agreement was taken out with Close Brothers in 
Mr Ds name. The loan under the agreement was used to pay a dealer for a used vehicle. 
Mr D has explained that the dealer was a friend of his and he discovered the agreement was 
in his name, shortly after it was taken out. He says the dealer contacted him around the time 
the first repayment was due and told him that he was in trouble with another party. Mr D 
says he agreed to make the repayments, so long as the dealer made payments to his 
account, to cover the monthly amount due under the agreement. 
Around fourteen months later, Close Brothers made contact with Mr D, because the loan 
account had entered into arrears. Close Brotherss records show that Mr D told them what 
had happened with the dealer and that he had reported everything to the police. Close 
Brothers told Mr D they would wait to hear from the police, but in the meantime, he was still 
responsible for the repayments. 
In April 2018, Mr D received a letter from the Criminal Justice System (CJS) to say the 
dealer had pleaded guilty to fraud by false representation, in relation to Mr Ds agreement 
with Close Brothers. Several other agreements, taken out using other identities by the dealer 
are also listed within the letter. 
After speaking to the police, Close Brothers terminated the agreement, but have been 
unable to locate the vehicle. Mr D says he hasnt ever had possession of the vehicle and that 
it was with the dealer. But, Close Brothers continued to hold Mr D responsible for the 
repayment of the outstanding balance. 
In April 2021, Mr D complained to Close Brothers and said he shouldnt be responsible for 
any further repayments. He also said another lender had agreed he was a victim of fraud by 
the dealer and had removed information about that loan. So, Mr D asked Close Brothers to 
do the same. 
In their response, Close Brothers said the agreement wasnt taken out fraudulently by the 
dealer in Mr Ds name and that Mr D had previously confirmed he had possession of the 
vehicle. Close Brothers explained that Mr D was still responsible for the outstanding debt 
and that any information about the loan would remain on Mr Ds credit file. 
Mr D didnt accept this and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into 
Mr Ds case and found that Close Brothers hadnt treated Mr D fairly. She concluded it was 
likely the dealer did take the agreement out in Mr Ds name without his authorisation, and 
Mr D only made payments out of fear of what might happen. She also found it unlikely the 
vehicle was ever in Mr Ds possession. 
The investigator asked Close Brothers to remove Mr D from any responsibility towards the 
repayments, remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file and to refund the 
repayments Mr D had made since June 2016. The investigator also said Close Brothers 
should pay interest on those repayments and pay Mr D £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience they had caused. 
Mr D accepted the investigators conclusions, but Close Brothers didnt. Although they asked 
for more details about the investigators findings, Close Brothers didnt reply to say if they 
were prepared to agree with them. So, Mr Ds case has now been passed to me to make a 
decision.
I sent Mr D and Close Brothers my provisional decision on this case, on 9 December 2022. I 
explained why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is 
included below:
The start of the conditional sale agreement 
This case is about a conditional sale agreement in Mr Ds name taken out with Close 
Brothers, which is a regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints 
about it. 
Ive looked at what happened when the agreement started to help decide if I think Mr D gave 
the dealer his authority to take out borrowing in his name. Close Brothers have provided a 
copy of the conditional sale agreement, which they say was electronically signed by Mr D. 
Page 12 of the agreement is a declaration by the supplying dealer and asks for an identity 
check to be carried out. I cannot see any details completed in the identity check section of 
the agreement form. So, on balance, I think Close Brothers allowed the dealer to submit the 
conditional sale agreement, without showing if they took any identification information from 
Mr D. 
Furthermore, Close Brothers records dont show what email address, telephone number or 
employment details they asked for during the application. This may explain how the dealer 
was able to submit the documents to Close Brothers and electronically sign the agreement 
form in Mr Ds name. 
The conditional sale agreement form also shows that a deposit of £7,000 was used to get 
the vehicle. Ive looked at Mr Ds bank account statements from November 2015 and I 
cannot see this payment, or an equivalent cash withdrawal. As such, I dont think the deposit 
was paid by Mr D from the bank account he used at the time the agreement started. 
I think the most significant document provided to us, is the letter from the CJS, which shows 
where the dealer pleaded guilty to fraud by false representation. I think considerable weight 
can be placed on this evidence as it shows where the dealer says he carried out this fraud 
specifically using Mr Ds personal details in the application with Close Brothers. 
I can see from Close Brothers records that they say the CJS didnt specify that the 
agreement in Mr Ds name was part of the charges brought against the dealer. However, I 
disagree and I think its clear from that letter that the agreement in Mr Ds name is included. 
The letter from the CJS also outlines where the dealer had carried out multiple other 
fraudulent applications, using several other peoples personal details. Mr D says that in addition to the agreement with Close Brothers, the dealer fraudulently 
opened a second agreement in his name with another lender. Within his complaint to Close 
Brothers, Mr D provided evidence to show where the other lender had agreed to remove 
information about the other loan, from the information held with credit reference agencies. 
I acknowledge that the other lender operates separately from Close Brothers. And I 
understand the circumstances, although similar, may have differences. But, I think this adds 
weight to Mr Ds argument that the dealer had fraudulently sort to take out borrowing in 
Mr Ds name without his authority to do so. 
Having considered everything, I think the letter from the CJS and the absence of any 
identification or personal details from the application, shows that Mr D didnt authorise the 
opening of the conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers. And I think Mr D has been 
consistent and credible in what hes told us about how he came to find out about what the 
dealer had done. So, I think Close Brothers should now take further steps to help Mr D. 
In all the circumstances, I think its fair that Close Brothers should allow Mr D to exit the 
conditional sale agreement, at no further cost to him. I also think Close Brothers should 
remove any details about the conditional sale agreement from the information held about 
Mr D, with credit reference agencies. 
The repayments made under the agreement 
Mr D says he feared for the safety of the dealer, when he was told what had happened. I 
agree that the more straight forward step Mr D could have taken, was to report the matter to 
Close Brothers and the police in 2015. However, Mr D says the dealer was a close friend of 
his and he wanted to help, alongside the police investigation that followed. 
In the meantime, repayments due under the agreement continued to be made to Close 
Brothers over the next two years. It seems that the repayments stopped in 2018, when the 
CJS letter was sent to Mr D. 
Ive looked at Mr Ds bank account statements from November 2015 to April 2018. Having 
done so, I can see that the dealer paid more into Mr Ds account, than what was paid to 
Close Brothers and the other lender involved in the court case against the dealer. 
Overall, while I accept the repayments for the conditional sale agreement were made from 
Mr Ds account, I dont think he has lost out financially here. I think Mr D has received more 
funds from the dealer, than was needed to satisfy the repayments to Close Brothers. So, I 
think its fair for Close Brothers to retain the payments they took from Mr Ds account. This 
means I dont think Close Brothers should refund any of the repayments to Mr D. 
The whereabouts of the vehicle 
Throughout his complaint with Close Brothers, Mr D has consistently said that he didnt take 
possession of the vehicle financed under the conditional sale agreement. But, Close 
Brothers say Mr D had told them the opposite, shortly after the agreement was taken out. 
So, Ive thought about the call Close Brothers made to Mr D in December 2015. 
We dont have a copy of the call, but Close Brothers records say that Mr D confirmed he 
had possession of the vehicle. Mr D says possession wasnt mentioned during the call, but 
that he agreed to make a repayment to help the dealer. 
In hindsight, had Mr D told Close Brothers what the dealer had done, during that telephone 
call, it may have avoided what followed. But, Im not persuaded this shows Mr D had the vehicle, only that the dealer had convinced Mr D to accept payments from him to satisfy the 
repayments due to Close Brothers. 
Close Brothers records also show that they sent agents to Mr Ds home on several 
occasions to try and locate and take back the vehicle. The records suggest that the vehicle 
wasnt ever with Mr D, only that it may have been stored in his garage. Ive considered 
Mr Ds home and the size of the vehicle financed under the agreement. Having done so, Im 
not persuaded that it was possible to store the vehicle in Mr Ds garage. 
The records from Close Brothers also show that the police were unable to recover the 
vehicle, when they were involved in investigating the dealer. And after looking at the letter 
from the CJS, on balance, I think its likely the dealer was the party here that knew the 
whereabouts of the vehicle. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think the evidence shows that Mr D had use of the vehicle or 
was aware of its location. So, I think its fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to end their 
pursuit of Mr D for further repayments and the outstanding balance due under the 
agreement. 
While I know my conclusions may leave Close Brothers without full payment for their asset, I 
can see the vehicle passed a Ministry of Transport test in April 2022. I think it follows, that 
Close Brothers may have since recovered the vehicle, or are now aware of its location. 
The distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr D 
Mr Ds records show that he sent proof to Close Brothers that the agreement was taken out 
without his authority in April 2021. The main evidence Mr D relied upon was the letter from 
the CJS and the outcome of the fraud investigation by the other lender. By this time Close 
Brothers had already terminated the agreement, but still held Mr D responsible for the 
outstanding debt. 
Having considered everything, I think Close Brothers had enough information in April 2021 to 
look further into Mr Ds previous concerns about the dealers actions. Ive concluded that 
Close Bothers initial findings to Mr Ds concerns relied heavily on what they say they were 
told by a police officer. But, I think the new evidence provided by Mr D, meant that further 
investigation was needed. 
Ive also thought carefully about Mr Ds concerns that the adverse information on his credit 
file, meant a lending application was declined. Although I empathise that it was a troubling 
time for Mr D and his family, Im not persuaded that Close Brothers actions alone, led to an 
unsuccessful application for further borrowing. That said, I can see how the worry about the 
adverse information added to Mr Ds concerns. 
In all the circumstances, I think Close Brothers should have engaged with Mr D sooner, 
drawing on what the CJS had told them about the dealers actions and how they were 
directly related to Mr D. I think Close Brothers caused Mr D worry when they asked him to 
repay the outstanding debt and when they asked him to return a vehicle that he didnt have. 
Overall, I think its fair for Close Brothers to pay Mr D £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr D responded to the provisional decision and accepted it. In summary, he said:
The funds paid into his account by the dealer were meant to cover two car finance 
agreements and this leaves him with a loss.The information recorded with credit reference agencies about the agreement meant 
he was unable to apply for a mortgage.
Close Brothers havent engaged with him or his representatives throughout the 
complaint.
The payment for distress and inconvenience doesnt cover the loss hes suffered.
Close Brothers responded to the provisional decision and said they had nothing further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge where Mr D says he has experienced a financial loss. Ive looked at Mr Ds 
bank account statements from the period where payments were made from his account. I 
can see where payments were made to the conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers 
and to a second lender.
But, I think the funds transferred into Mr Ds account from the dealer, covered both of the 
regular commitments to each lender. So, I still dont think that it would be fair to ask Close 
Brothers to refund any repayments to Mr D.
However, I agree that Mr D has suffered distress and inconvenience caused by the lack of 
engagement by Close Brothers. And while I dont think Close Brothers should refund the 
repayments due under the contract, I do think the distress and inconvenience he suffered 
means they should make a payment to him to reflect that.
Mr D says he was unable to secure a mortgage, due to the problems created by the dealer 
and how Close Brothers reported the situation on his credit file. I empathise with what Mr D 
says, as it seems he needed to rely on help from his family. But, Im not persuaded that the 
information recorded by Close Brothers alone, was the sole reason why a mortgage 
application may not have succeeded.
In all the circumstances I still think its fair for Close Brothers to pay Mr D £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Although Mr D raised some points in response to the provisional decision, he has accepted 
those findings. And Close Brothers didnt have any further points to add. So, I see no reason 
to come to any different conclusions to those set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers should:
1. allow Mr D to exit the conditional sale agreement at no additional cost to him; 
2. end the pursuit of Mr D for the repayments due under the conditional sale agreement; 
3. pay £500 to Mr D for the distress and inconvenience caused; and 
4. remove any information about the conditional sale agreement from the details 
recorded with credit reference agencies about Mr D.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Close Brothers Limited trading as 
Close Brothers to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman