DRN-3360630
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the cash settlement UK Insurance Limited (UKI) offered him to settle 
his home insurance claim. 
What happened
In July 2021, Mr G noticed water collecting outside his kitchen wall. Before raising a claim, 
he contacted a plumber. After removing a large amount of concrete from his pathway, they 
identified an underground pipe leak. They also installed a section of alkathene and some 
joint fittings but said the area would need to be monitored before the repair could be finalised 
and the pathway restored.
When Mr G first discussed the claim with UKI, he said the works were ongoing so he 
couldnt provide a final bill. In response, UKI said they'd verify the claim once they received 
the invoice. In later conversations, UKI asked Mr G to provide updates about the repair 
works and he said everything was going well.
Once the works were completed, Mr G provided the requested invoice. UKI then told Mr G 
they'd settle the claim by paying him £842.40 minus the £200 policy excess. They justified 
this amount by explaining this is what it would have cost them if theyd used one of their own 
approved contractors. Mr G didnt think this was fair as the amount was significantly less 
than what his contractor had charged him. Mr G also mentioned a previous claim enquiry 
where he said UKI advised him to contact his own plumber in relation to an internal leak. 
However, UKIs final response said their position remained the same. 
Our investigator then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said UKI had acted 
reasonably by paying a proportionate settlement as Mr G had chosen his own contractor and 
started the works, before UKI could offer to send one of their own instead. She also 
highlighted the relevant policy term and said the fact UKI had previously suggested he repair 
an internal leak independently, didnt change things. She said he was required to call UKI at 
the start of every new claim.
Mr G then requested a final decision. In summary he said he hadnt been treated fairly. He 
didnt have time to read the terms and conditions before he appointed the contractor and he 
was relying on previous advice. He accepts it may have cost UKI less to complete the works 
but feels strongly they should have told him to use their contractors instead. If theyd done 
so, he could have cancelled the remaining repair work or at least discussed the matter with 
his contractor, before asking them to return to his property.
Our investigator empathised with Mr G, but said her opinion remained the same.
Ive therefore considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr Gs home insurance policy booklet sets out the process for making a claim. It 
provides a specific telephone number to use and asks that a call is made as quickly 
as possible. It also says, dont make any arrangements for replacement or repair 
before you call. So, Im satisfied UKI made this process clear and Mr G should 
reasonably have been aware of it. Im also satisfied Mr G should have followed this 
process, regardless of  his previous claim enquiry as every claim is different. I also 
note Mr Gs comment that he didnt have time to read the policy terms or contact UKI 
before calling his contractor. But as the leak was outside, I dont think UKIs request 
for a call was particularly unusual or onerous. If Mr G had done this, UKI would have 
been able to discuss his options with him including sending one of their own 
contractors to complete the work.
I've reviewed Mr Gs claim form and listened to the telephone conversations he had 
with UKI. Having done so, its clear Mr G had already instructed a contractor and 
significant work had already taken place before he notified UKI of the claim. In such 
circumstances, I dont think UKI acted unreasonably by telling Mr G they'd verify the 
claim once theyd received the final invoice. I wouldnt reasonably have expected 
them to have offered to send their own contractor, as it was clear Mr G was happy 
with the arrangements hed already made, and the option to use your own contractor  
is allowed under the terms of the policy. Ive also given significant thought to Mr Gs 
comment that he may have stopped the works and changed contractor, if UKI had 
highlighted this option to him. I appreciate why he feels this way but given the 
amount of work that had already taken place and the potential disruption this may 
have caused - I dont think this is likely.
I also appreciate the upset Mr G experienced when he received UKIs settlement 
offer. However, the terms and conditions say If we can repair or rebuild the 
damaged part, but we agree to use your suppliers or make a cash payment, we will 
only pay you what it would have cost us using our suppliers and therefore the 
amount you receive may be lower than the cost charged by your suppliers. So, I 
dont think UKI acted unreasonably by relying on this policy term and only agreeing to 
pay what the works would reasonably have cost them. I also note that while UKI 
didnt highlight this specific term to Mr G before the work was completed in any 
telephone conversations ( which would have been helpful) they did warn him they'd 
need to verify the claim once theyd received the invoice. So, Im satisfied Mr G 
should have reasonably known there was no guarantee the invoice would be paid in 
full. He could also have asked more questions if he had any concerns about the 
settlement process.
I've reviewed the invoice Mr G has provided and the alternative quote UKI relied on. I 
appreciate the amounts are significantly different, but Im satisfied both quotes cover 
the same insured repair work. Most insurers also have established relationships with 
contractors who agree rates that tend to be below the market price. So, I dont find it 
unusual UKIs quote was considerably lower or that Mr G has said he doesnt think 
he would have been able to find a similar quote himself. Its unfortunate for Mr G that 
the amount is significantly less, and I appreciate it leaves him in a difficult financial 
position, but I dont think this means UKI have done anything wrong.
Overall, Im satisfied UKI considered Mr Gs claim fairly and reasonably. Mr G 
appointed his own contractor, before making the claim. UKI warned Mr G they'd need to verify the claim once theyd received the invoice. They have also shown they could 
have completed the same work for less using their own contractor. So, while I 
appreciate Mr G will be disappointed by this decision, I see no reasonable grounds 
for directing UKI to increase their settlement offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman