DRN-3825636
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P have complained about the advice they were given by an appointed 
representative of Openwork Limited when they wanted to consolidate some unsecured 
debts.
Openwork said a further advance with their existing lender wasnt possible and referred them 
to a different broker firm for advice about second charge loans.
Any reference to Openwork in this decision should be taken to mean its appointed 
representative where appropriate.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022, the findings of which said:
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Where the available evidence is incomplete, contradictory or missing, our rules require me 
to reach my conclusions on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened on 
the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases. I 
set out my findings in this provisional decision, in order that both parties have the 
opportunity to comment before I finalise my decision.
The outcome of this case turns on two core questions; these are:
whether Openwork could have obtained a competitive first charge mortgage for Mrs 
and Mr P to repay their unsecured debts (either a further advance with B, or a full 
remortgage to a different lender); and
whether Openwork is responsible for the advice given by firm E to take out the 
second charge loan.
Ive considered this case very carefully but Im not persuaded I can safely answer yes to 
either question. Ill explain why.
I acknowledge that putting Mrs and Mr Ps basic information (that is, their incomes and the 
details of their borrowing requirements) into Bs affordability calculator indicates the 
potential further advance could have been affordable for them. But that isnt the only 
consideration a lender has when being asked to lend more money.
Many lenders are understandably cautious when theyre asked to consolidate unsecured 
debts onto a mortgage especially where, as it seems was the case here, the unsecured 
debts dont have a specific reason for being owed, have been building up over time, and 
are almost equal to the main income earners annual gross income (and in excess of their 
combined net annual income).
Different lenders have different risk profiles, with mainstream first-charge lenders often 
being the most risk adverse and unwilling to lend in scenarios that non-mainstream lenders 
(particularly in the second charge market) would be willing to consider.
Im required to reach my decision on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities. Ultimately, what that test means for Mrs and Mr 
P is that, as the party bringing the complaint, it falls to them to present a case that is more 
likely than Openworks case; not just as likely. Having considered what both sides have 
said I dont find Mrs and Mr Ps arguments to be any more than just as likely.
There are many reasons why a mortgage application might fail and no guarantees can ever 
be given that an application will be successful. We cant say for sure whether B would or 
wouldnt have granted Mrs and Mr P a further advance in 2018 as a formal application 
wasnt made but, based on everything Ive seen and my experience in seeing the types of 
applications that are accepted and declined, Im not persuaded it is more likely than not 
that B would have accepted the application had it been made.
I understand Mrs and Mr P have now remortgaged to a mainstream lender but they 
wouldnt have been able to remortgage to that lender in 2018 with the level of unsecured 
debt they had as  based on my experience and understanding of that lenders criteria - it 
would have been outside its criteria and therefore the application would have been 
declined.
Consolidating secured debt isnt viewed the same way as consolidating unsecured debt, 
and so because those debts were now secured on the property, the new lender was willing 
to grant them a remortgage in 2021, but if those debts had been unsecured it is likely that 
the remortgage would have been declined. In my experience Mrs and Mr P would have had 
similar difficulties with other mainstream lenders in 2018.
In 2018 the position Mrs and Mr P were in wouldnt have been attractive to the mainstream 
mortgage market as a remortgage proposition for the reasons Ive given, and the 
non-mainstream first charge mortgage rates would have been higher and therefore unlikely 
to be cost effective when considering the low rates that were available with B for the 
existing mortgage.
By 2021 Mrs and Mr P were in a much more positive position for mainstream lenders due 
to the second charge loan consolidating their unsecured debts, and therefore they were 
able to get a very attractive rate, but their 2021 position is simply not comparable with their 
2018 position and so cant be used as an indication of what might have been possible in 
2018. 
Having considered everything Im not currently persuaded that it is more likely than not (as 
the test I must use) that Openwork could have placed Mrs and Mr Ps application 
requirements within the mainstream first charge mortgage market at a rate that would have 
made it financially suitable, and so I cant safely answer yes to the first of the two core 
questions.
However, even if I did answer yes to the first core question, it doesnt automatically follow 
that this complaint should be upheld. Id have to also be satisfied that Openwork was 
directly responsible for Mrs and Mr P instead taking this second charge loan. Which leads 
me to the second core question; that is, whether Openwork is responsible for the advice 
given by firm E to take out the second charge loan.It isnt in dispute that Openwork referred Mrs and Mr P to E in the knowledge that E could 
arrange a second charge loan. But that doesnt mean that Openwork is responsible for the 
advice E gave, and therefore any complaint that follows.
E held its own separate authorisation with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), and it is liable for the advice it gives under that authorisation. If E felt a second 
charge loan wasnt suitable for Mrs and Mr P (which Im not saying either way) then it was 
its responsibility to say so.
Openwork simply isnt liable for what happened after it passed Mrs and Mr P onto a 
separate FCA-regulated firm of advisers. Any complaint about the suitability of the second 
charge loan would need to be made to E, I simply cant consider that against Openwork.
Having considered everything, Im not minded to uphold this complaint as I cant hold 
Openwork liable for the advice Mrs and Mr P received to take a second charge loan.
Openwork had nothing further to add. Mrs and Mr P responded but their comments broadly 
reiterated the complaint points Id already considered when I reached my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr P have questioned how I can decide against them on the balance of probabilities 
when theyve provided comprehensive factual evidence and Openwork has not and have 
said that my comments about lenders being cautious when asked to consolidate unsecured 
debts are pure speculation. To explain; the balance of probabilities comment is about the 
fact there is no evidence to prove beyond doubt that lender B would have lent the money to 
Mrs and Mr P in 2018. Mrs and Mr P have given their thoughts and details of lending policy 
and the affordability calculator, but as I explained in my provisional decision there is much 
more to a lending decision than those basic facts. 
Mrs and Mr P have said in relation to the balance of probabilities In a court of law this would 
not be the case - either prove your innocence with hard facts and evidence to back this up or 
the balance of probabilities is that you are guilty! but thats not right. In a court of law it is up 
to the accuser to prove guilt, it isnt for the accused to prove innocence. Or as I explained in 
my provisional decision, under our remit, Ultimately, what that test means for Mrs and Mr P 
is that, as the party bringing the complaint, it falls to them to present a case that is more 
likely than Openworks case; not just as likely. Having considered what both sides have said 
I dont find Mrs and Mr Ps arguments to be any more than just as likely.
In my experience, and based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded it is more likely than 
not that lender B would have accepted a further advance application from Mrs and Mr P in 
2018 to repay the unsecured debts they had at that time.
Mrs and Mr P have asked why no attempt was made to approach another lender, rather than 
referring them to the second charge broker. That isnt something Im able to answer as I 
dont know what enquiries Openwork made of other lenders at the time. But I would remind 
Mrs and Mr P what I said in my provisional decision about their likely options within the 
mainstream mortgage market in 2018:
I understand Mrs and Mr P have now remortgaged to a mainstream lender but they 
wouldnt have been able to remortgage to that lender in 2018 with the level of unsecured 
debt they had as  based on my experience and understanding of that lenders criteria - it would have been outside its criteria and therefore the application would have been 
declined.
Consolidating secured debt isnt viewed the same way as consolidating unsecured debt, 
and so because those debts were now secured on the property, the new lender was willing 
to grant them a remortgage in 2021, but if those debts had been unsecured it is likely that 
the remortgage would have been declined. In my experience Mrs and Mr P would have had 
similar difficulties with other mainstream lenders in 2018.
In 2018 the position Mrs and Mr P were in wouldnt have been attractive to the mainstream 
mortgage market as a remortgage proposition for the reasons Ive given, and the 
non-mainstream first charge mortgage rates would have been higher and therefore unlikely 
to be cost effective when considering the low rates that were available with B for the 
existing mortgage.
Irrespective of everything else, as I explained in my provisional decision, I cant hold 
Openwork liable for Mrs and Mr P taking out the second charge loan as the suitability of that 
product is the responsibility of broker E.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman