DRN-2651303
The complaint
Mr A complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled his claim on his commercial 
buildings insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr A had a buildings insurance policy with AXA for a property he rents out. The property 
consists of a shop on the ground floor and a residential flat on the first floor. 
In January 2019 his shop tenant reported that water was pouring through the suspended 
ceiling. Two days later the tenant had to move out due to the extent of the damage. A week 
later Mr A says his residential tenant also moved out as the electrics in the flat failed. 
Mr A made a claim on his insurance. AXA sent contractors to attend the property who found 
three areas of water ingress. Two were into the shop and one into the entrance hall of the 
flat. However it said that the cause of each was excluded from cover. After the visit AXA 
confirmed the following: 
There was a leak into the shop from a flat felt roof and this was caused due to gradual wear and 
tear, which is excluded under the policy;
There was also water ingress at the rear of the shop that was due to a sloping roof. It said that 
this was due to a defective design, which was also excluded;
And there was a leak into the entrance hall of the flat, which appeared to be caused by a leak 
from the bathroom that hadnt been found or fixed. It said as the leak hadnt been identified or 
fixed, this wouldnt be covered. 
However AXA said that the internal damage to the property would be covered under the 
accidental damage extension of the policy. It also said it would cover loss of rent for the shop 
as the damage had meant it was uninhabitable. But it said this wouldnt be covered for the 
residential flat as the damage was minimal.
AXA also said that during its investigations, it had found that Mr A was under-insured. So it 
said it would apply an average to the cash settlement offered.
Mr A wasnt happy with the settlement offered. He said the amount wasnt enough for him to 
get the work done. Further he thought that loss of rent should be covered for the residential 
flat, as he said the water had damaged the electrics and a flat without electricity wasnt 
suitable to live in. 
AXA didnt uphold Mr As complaint as it said the settlement it had offered was fair in the 
circumstances. It said it hadnt seen any evidence that the problems with the electricity in the 
flat were caused by the water ingress, so it maintained its position that the loss of rent for the 
flat wouldnt be covered. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to this service. He also provided an 
updated report from an expert that he said showed the damage to the electrics in the flat 
was caused by the water ingress. This was provided to AXA but it didnt change its position. 
Our investigator considered everything but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she was satisfied that AXA had acted fairly when settling Mr As claim and applying an 
average to the settlement. She said she had considered the report provided about the 
electrics in the flat, however she wasnt persuaded by it as it wasnt very detailed. And other 
reports confirmed that the whole flat needed re-wiring due to the electrics being in a poor 
state of repair. 
Mr A didnt think was fair and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A isnt happy with a number of aspects of the claim settlement offered by AXA. I have 
addressed each in turn below.
Settlement for damage
Mr A doesnt think the settlement offered by AXA is fair. Hes said that he isnt able to get the 
required work done for the amount offered.
Ive considered the settlement offered by AXA. It declined Mr As claims for the cause of the 
damage as it said these were excluded from cover. It also applied an average to the cash 
settlement offered for the internal damage, as it said Mr A was under-insured. Ive 
considered whether AXA has acted fairly in reaching each of these decisions. 
         
External damage
AXA has said that the external damage that has caused water ingress to the building is 
excluded under the policy. There are three areas of water ingress, that have ben excluded 
for three different reasons.
AXAs loss adjuster provided a report that concluded that each of the three areas of water 
ingress would be excluded under the policy, for the reasons Ive already outlined. The report 
includes photos of the damage and descriptions of why the loss adjuster came to these 
conclusions.
While Mr A has said he isnt happy with the settlement offered, he hasnt offered alternative 
explanations for how the damage may have been caused. So in the absence of any further 
evidence or explanations, I think it was fair for AXA to rely on its loss adjusters report to 
explain the cause of the damage. So I think it has acted fairly by declining the three claims 
due to the exclusions in the policy.
Applying an average
Although the cause of the damage has been excluded, the damage itself is covered under 
the accidental damage extension in Mr As policy. However AXA has reduced the cash 
settlement amounts as it says Mr A was under-insured. This means the value insured was 
less than the actual value. AXA says that the sum insured for the building is £343,631 when the actual value is 
£407,787. It has provided the calculations its loss adjuster based this figure on, and Im 
satisfied it has calculated this amount fairly. 
Mr As policy contains an average clause, this is a common term in a policy that states the 
insurer will proportionately reduce any cash settlement if the sum insured is less than the 
true value. His policy states as follows:
If at the time of damage the declared value of the property you are claiming for is less than 
the cost of reinstatement at the start of the period of insurance, our liability for any damage 
will be proportionately reduced and will be limited to the proportion that the declared value 
bears to the cost of reinstatement
As the sum insured is only 85% of the true value, AXA is therefore entitled to reduce the 
amount offered as a settlement by 15%, to reflect its liability. 
AXA has provided its calculations for each of the cash settlements its offered. And Im 
satisfied that it has applied this term fairly and the cash settlement reflects a proportionate 
settlement based on the sum insured. 
Mr A has said that it doesnt think the settlement is fair because he hasnt been able to get a 
quote for the work for the amount offered. While I sympathise with his position, I dont agree 
that AXA has acted unfairly by settling his claim at a reduced amount. So I wont ask it to do 
anything differently. 
Loss of rent
Mr A isnt happy with the amount offered for loss of rent. He says the amount for the 
commercial unit doesnt cover what he has lost and he thinks the rent for the residential flat 
should be covered.
Commercial unit
AXA agrees that the commercial unit on the ground floor of the building has experienced 
significant damage, so it would be uninhabitable for Mr As tenant. It has therefore accepted 
his claim for loss of rent for this part of the building. It has offered Mr A a settlement for two 
months loss of rent, as it says this is a reasonable amount of time for him to arrange for the 
works to be done. 
Mr A says that he missed out on more months of rental income, so AXA should increase its 
offer to cover this. While I appreciate Mr A has been without a tenant for longer than two 
months, when deciding whether AXA has acted fairly I have to consider what it is liable for 
under the policy. 
AXA has offered loss of rent payments based on the amount of time it thought the damage 
would take to repair. As it is cash settling Mr As claim  so not carrying out the work itself  I 
think this is a reasonable approach. 
Mr A has taken much longer than this to get the reapir work done, which has meant he has 
missed out on further rent payments. However I cant say AXA are to blame for this  it 
confirmed its final settlement in February 2019. And it wouldnt be fair to ask AXA to pay for 
loss of rent for an indefinite period of time until Mr A arranges the repairs.   
So while Mr As policy covers him for rent he has missed out on due to the commercial unit 
being uninhabitable, its reasonable that AXA only pay for the amount of time it would take to get the repairs completed. As it has done this, I dont think it has acted unfairly. So I wont 
ask it to pay anything further.
It is also worth noting that AXA has applied the average clause to the loss of rent payments. 
And for the reasons Ive already given, I agree this is fair. 
Residential flat
AXA has declined Mr As claim for loss of rent for the residential flat on the first floor. It has 
said that as the property was habitable, then the policy cover wouldnt apply. 
The loss of rent term in Mr As policy provides cover for any rental income lost due to 
damage caused by an insured event. In this case the damage to the flat is described by 
AXAs loss adjuster as a small area of damage to the entrance hall wall. So I agree this 
wouldnt be enough to make the flat uninhabitable to tenants and therefore cause Mr A to 
lose out on rent.
Mr A has said the electrics in the flat failed due to water ingress. And as there was no 
electricity in the flat, it wouldnt be habitable. However AXA has said it hasnt seen enough 
evidence to show that the electrics failed due to an insured event, such as water ingress. 
Mr A originally provided AXA with an expert report that quoted for the re-wiring of the whole 
flat. The report stated: 
it was glaringly obvious that the existing electrical installation is in a poor state of repair & 
is no longer fit for purpose. This is the reason I have quoted to start from scratch as this will 
be more economical than trying to retrieve the few satisfactory items that remain 
The expert also made no mention of water causing any of the damage. 
Mr A has also provided a report from a different expert. This states that some damage to the 
electrics has been caused by water. However it doesnt provide any detail about where the 
damage is or how it has been caused. When this was raised with Mr A he provided a new 
copy of the same report, this time dated 2021. The report talked about the visit in 2019 and 
provided a bit of extra detail. 
On considering the reports I think AXA has acted fairly by declining Mr As claim for loss of 
rent for the residential flat. While there is more detail in Mr As most recent report, it doesnt 
say what the cause of the damage was. Further, as the report was issued in 2021 and 
describes findings from a visit in 2019, I am not persuaded that this would be an accurate 
reflection of the inspection at the time. 
The most detailed report Mr A provided said that the electrics were in a poor state of repair 
and should be replaced in full. So Im satisfied that they most likely failed due to poor 
maintenance, rather than due to a one off insured event. So that reason I think AXA has 
acted fairly by declining this part of the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Sophie GoodyearOmbudsman