DRN-4066300
The complaint
Mr A complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has unfairly avoided his home insurance 
policy (that is, treated it like it never existed) after he made a claim.  
What happened
Mr A took out a home insurance policy with Covea through a broker on a price comparison 
website. As part of his insurance application, Mr A said hed made three home insurance 
claims in the previous five years.
Mr A subsequently made a new claim on his policy  which I understand Covea paid. But it 
also searched Mr As claims history and found references to ten claims. Three of these were 
claims with another insurer made after Mr A had taken out his policy with Covea but the 
other seven pre-dated it. 
Covea said Mr A had answered the question hed been asked on the comparison site about 
his previous home insurance claims and losses incorrectly when he took the policy out. 
Covea said this was a careless qualifying misrepresentation and meant it could avoid Mr As 
policy (that is, treat it as if it never existed), although Covea also said it would repay Mr A his 
policy premium.
Mr A is unhappy Covea has avoided his policy, so he brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. She thought Covea had acted reasonably in 
treating Mr As qualifying misrepresentation as careless.
Mr A doesnt agree with our investigators findings. He says he made a genuine mistake and 
shouldnt be penalised for it.
So Mr As complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law for this complaint is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This says consumers must take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care is that 
of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer doesnt take reasonable care, an insurer has certain remedies available to it, 
as long as the misrepresentation is what CIDRA calls a qualifying misrepresentation. For it 
to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy 
on different terms (or not at all) if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said at the time he applied for his home insurance policy that hed made three home 
insurance claims in the previous five years, when in fact hed made more.
Ive looked at the question Mr A was asked on the price comparison site when he took the 
policy out. This asked:
Have you made any home insurance claims or suffered any losses in the last 5
years?
Mr A disclosed three claims hed made  one in 2018 and two in 2020. But Coveas 
subsequent searches showed Mr A had also made another claim in March 2021 (which was 
a few months before he took the policy out), as well as three earlier claims in 2018 and 
2019. Mr A says some of these claims were in relation to policies he had on buy-to-let 
properties he owned, so he didnt think he needed to disclose them to Covea. Covea says 
the type of policy these were  landlords policies, rather than residential property owners 
policies  meant Mr A needed to disclose them. And in any case, at least one of the claims 
Mr A didnt disclose was in relation to his risk address.
I think the question Mr A was asked on the price comparison site was clear  Have you (my 
underlining) made any home insurance claimsin the last 5 years. And, from what Ive 
seen having looked at Coveas search results, I think the answer Mr A gave to it was 
incorrect. That means I dont think Mr A took reasonable care. 
So what I must now decide is whether Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation for the purposes of CIDRA. To do this, I must look at what Covea 
wouldve done had Mr A given the correct information when he answered the question on 
previous claims and losses. 
Covea has given us an extract from its underwriting guidance that says it wouldnt have 
offered Mr A cover if hed made three or more claims in the previous five years. In 
investigation notes Covea has sent us, its noted that, because of a system error, the 
broker Mr A bought his policy through had offered him cover even though, with the three 
claims hed actually disclosed, he wasnt an acceptable underwriting risk for Covea. This 
was clearly a mistake by the broker. But I think its equally clear from Coveas underwriting 
guidance that, if Mr A had disclosed his additional previous claims on top of the three he did 
disclose, Covea wouldnt have accepted the insurance risk. From looking at this evidence, 
Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Covea has said Mr As misrepresentation was careless and I think thats a fair and 
reasonable assessment. So what I must finally look at is the actions Covea can take in 
accordance with CIDRA for Mr As qualifying misrepresentation. 
I accept Mr A says he made a genuine mistake. But Covea has shown that, had Mr A given 
it the correct information about his previous home insurance claims when he took his policy 
out, it wouldnt have offered him cover. That being the case, I think Covea has acted fairly 
and reasonably and in line with CIDRA  which reflects our long-established approach to 
these types of complaint  in avoiding Mr As policy.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman