DRN-4301859
The complaint
Miss O and Miss O are unhappy with Great Lakes Insurance SEs current decision on their 
travel insurance claim.
What happened
Miss O and Miss O purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, providing them 
with cover between 31 March 2022 and 30 March 2023, for trips taken worldwide. The policy 
provided cover for various pre-departure and post-departure risks.
During this policy period, Miss O and Miss O took a trip abroad in January 2023. Theyve 
explained they checked a large suitcase in with the airline, for it to be carried in the hold. And 
were also told a particular piece of hand luggage needed to checked in too. So that also 
ended up being put in the hold by the baggage handlers as well.
But when the bags were unloaded and returned to Miss O and Miss O, theyve explained 
these were damaged. Theyve said the large suitcase was damaged on its sides. And the 
bag originally intended for hand luggage had its handle broken. Miss O and Miss O said they 
raised these problems with the airline, who told her to pursue their claim with the baggage 
handling company. Or through their travel insurance provider.
The baggage handling company offered to repair the damaged bags. But Miss O and Miss O 
didnt consider this to be a reasonable offer. They said on a previous flight the same 
baggage handler had damaged their bags and taken them in for repair. But the repair was 
poor. So, they were concerned about this being the case again. And wanted a replacement 
for their items.
Miss O and Miss O made a claim under their travel insurance policy for the replacement of 
the bags. 
Great Lakes considered this claim, but said it wasnt able to provide any settlement to Miss 
O and Miss O at this time. Great Lakes said that the policy didnt cover losses that were 
recoverable elsewhere. And in this instance, the loss was recoverable elsewhere  this 
being from the baggage handlers, who were offering to repair the damage. 
In addition to this, Great Lakes said Miss O and Miss O would need to provide a property 
irregularity report form the airline, and evidence of the original purchase of the luggage.
Miss O and Miss O didnt think this was fair. So, they complained to Great Lakes. Great 
Lakes responded and maintained its position on the matter. As Miss O and Miss O remained 
dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
Great Lakes had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy when 
saying Miss O and Miss O should allow the baggage handlers to attempt to repair the 
luggage in the first instance. And said if a recovery of the loss from the baggage handler in 
this way wasnt successful, it may be possible for Miss O and Miss O to return to Great 
Lakes for their claim to be reassessed.
Miss O and Miss O didnt agree. In summary, they felt that no party was taking responsibility 
for the loss theyd suffered  and considered that their insurance policy provided cover for 
this instance. Miss O and Miss O felt that Great Lakes should therefore replace their 
luggage. 
As Miss O and Miss O didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Great 
Lakes acted in line with these requirements when it declined to settle Miss O and Miss Os 
claim.
Ive also reviewed Miss O and Miss Os policy documentation, to see what cover the policy 
provides. On doing so, I can see that the policy does provide cover for the cost of 
replacement, reinstatement, or repair of personal possessions, including baggage, subject to 
wear and tear and depreciation. 
But Im also aware that the policy explains the following, within the General Exclusions 
section of the policy:
We will not pay for any losses recoverable from any other source. 
This means that if its possible to recover the losses claimed for elsewhere, then the 
insurance policy wont respond. The insured will need to recover the losses from the other 
source first. This is usual in insurance policies of this nature.
As the policy explains that it doesnt cover costs recoverable elsewhere, Ive thought about 
whether Great Lakes has acted fairly in saying this applies in Miss O and Miss Os case. And 
Im satisfied it has acted fairly. I appreciate Miss O and Miss O dont feel their loss is 
recoverable elsewhere. But I dont agree. At this stage, Miss O and Miss O have the 
opportunity of the baggage handler repairing their luggage. That may indeed ensure their 
loss is recovered  if the repair is successful and puts them back in the position they were in 
before the damage happened.
Its reasonable for Great Lakes to expect Miss O and Miss O to pursue this avenue in the 
first instance, in line with the terms of the policy. So, I dont require Great Lakes to do 
anything differently at this stage. If the baggage handlers attempt at completing a repair is 
unsuccessful, and it then doesnt offer an alternative, full, settlement for the damaged 
luggage, then Miss O and Miss O may wish to return to Great Lakes and pursue their claim 
then. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything more in respect of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman