DRN-3851811
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs K complain about Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) and the service 
AGI provided when they made a claim on their Mobile Phone Insurance policy.
Mrs K has acted as representative of Mr Hs during the complaint process. So, for ease of 
reference, I will refer to any actions taken, and comments made, by either Mr H or Mrs K as 
Mrs K throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs K held a mobile phone insurance policy that was underwritten by AGI. In September 
2022, Mrs K made a claim on this insurance policy for a lost mobile phone. AGI accepted the 
claim, and they provided a replacement phone. But Mrs K was unhappy with the 
replacement phone, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs K felt the replacement phone was a downgrade on the phone she lost. And she didnt 
think it was fair for AGI to provide a lesser replacement. Mrs K was also unhappy with the 
alternative options shed been provided. So, she wanted AGI to provide her with the value of 
her original phone as a cash settlement.
AGI responded to the complaint and upheld it. They accepted the replacement Mrs K 
received was a lesser specification than the phone she lost. So, they offered to pay Mrs K 
the full £389 value of the lost phone as a cash settlement. And they offered to pay Mrs K a 
further £50 to recognise the inconvenience shed been caused. But they explained that, as 
Mrs K had confirmed shed damaged the screen of the replacement phone, they would 
deduct the excess associated with the warranty policy of that phone from the cash 
settlement. Mrs K was unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
While the complaint was with our service, AGI put two new offers to Mrs K in an attempt to 
resolve the complaint. Initially, they offered to waive the warranty excess associated with the 
damage to the replacement phone. And when Mrs K rejected this offer, AGI also offered to 
increase their compensation payment to £100. Mrs K rejected this again and so, our 
investigator looked into the complaint.
And having done so, they felt the latest offer put forward by AGI was a fair one to recognise 
the level of service Mrs K received. So, this is what they thought AGI should do. Following 
our investigators view and endorsement, Mrs K accepted AGIs offer.
But Mrs K became unhappy when she realised AGI would only pay the cash settlement for 
the phone value once they had received the replacement phone in return. Mrs K didnt think 
this was fair as it would leave her without a phone, or the cash amount to purchase a 
replacement. Mrs K was also unhappy with the bank AGI wished to pay the compensation 
and settlement into, stating she was unable to access this. But its since been realised that 
Mr H can access any funds paid into the said account. Mrs K remained unhappy with AGIs 
expectation that the replacement phone be returned first and so, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer made by AGI is a fair resolution to the complaint. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
It's already been accepted by AGI that the replacement phone Mrs K was provided with was 
of a lesser specification and that they made an error when providing this. As this is accepted, 
I dont intend to discuss this in further detail. Instead, Ive focused on the impact this error 
had on Mrs K, and what I think AGI should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what I think AGI should do to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Mrs K back in the position she wouldve been in, had AGI acted 
fairly in the first instance. Its not intended to place Mrs K back in a position of betterment, as 
we are an independent and impartial organisation that must ensure any resolution is fair to 
both parties.
In this situation, had AGI acted fairly, they wouldve ensured the replacement sent to Mrs K 
was of a similar specification. In this situation, there was a dispute about whether any of the 
options given to Mrs K were adequately similar, as a direct replacement wasnt available. So, 
in this situation, Id expect AGI to ensure Mrs K received the full value of the lost phone, so 
she was able to purchase a suitable replacement. I recognise as part of AGIs latest offer, 
they have offered to make this payment to Mrs K.
But this offer from AGI has come more than two months after Mrs K raised her initial claim. 
So, I think Mrs K has been left using a phone of a lesser specification for an extended period 
of time where, if AGI had acted reasonably, she wouldnt have needed to do so. And during 
this time, Mrs K has needed to take time and effort to contact AGI to dispute the initial 
outcome of the claim, which I dont doubt wouldve been inconvenient. So, I think Mrs K 
should be compensated for this.
AGI have paid Mrs K £100 and agreed to waive the £50 excess associated to a warranty 
claim for the replacement phone, which is accepted has been damaged while in Mrs Ks 
possession. So, in total, I think AGIs offer provides Mrs K with a financial benefit of £150. 
And I think this offer is a fair one, which falls in line with what I wouldve recommended had it 
not already been put forward.
I think it fairly recognises the length of time Mrs K has been using a phone of a lesser 
specification, while also taking into account the fact Mrs K has had a phone to use during 
this time. I think it also fairly reflects the inconvenience Mrs K has been caused when 
needing to speak to AGI about her dispute and any emotional upset this has caused her 
while also considering the fact the replacement phone has been damaged and will likely 
incur a cost to AGI to fix or replace. 
I recognise Mrs K has accepted this offer already. And her main dispute centres around the 
actions she needs to take to receive the cash settlement. Namely, return the phone to AGI 
before they pay the settlement.
While I appreciate the inconvenience this will likely cause Mrs K, I dont think AGI are unfair 
to stipulate this as a requirement of the offer. Nor am I able to direct them to make the payment without this requirement being fulfilled. This is because providing the settlement 
offer to Mrs K before they receive the replacement phone back would leave Mrs K in a 
position where shed have both the cash settlement, and replacement phone. And I think this 
is a position of betterment, which is not something Im able to direct or recommend. 
Mrs K will now need to arrange a suitable way for the replacement phone to be returned to 
AGI, should she wish to receive the cash settlement for her lost phone. AGI have confirmed 
Mrs K is able to do this free of charge through a pre-paid option they can provide, or that 
they will reimburse Mrs K for any postage costs. It is up to Mrs K and AGI to agree this 
directly between themselves.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr H and Mrs Ks complaint about Assurant 
General Insurance Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr H and Mrs K the full cash settlement value of £389 once theyve received Mrs 
Ks current replacement phone; and
Waive any excess applicable to the warranty claim related to the damaged 
replacement phone.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman