DRN-4229352
The complaint
Miss D complains about the way Tesco Underwriting Limited dealt with a claim she made on 
her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2022 another vehicle collided with Miss Ds parked car and damaged it. 
Miss D made a claim on her car insurance policy with Tesco, using Tescos digital platform. 
On the basis of the information she provided, Tesco deemed the car to be a total loss 
(whats commonly referred to as a write-off). It offered Miss D £1,980 in settlement of her 
claim, after deduction of her policy excess of £200. 
Miss D thought Tescos offer of settlement was too low. She said she couldnt find a car of 
the same model, specification and mileage for the amount Tesco offered her. So Tesco told 
her it would refer the matter to an engineer. The engineer carried out a desktop inspection of 
Miss Ds car and concluded that it could be repaired. Tesco told Miss D that following the 
engineers inspection, it no longer considered her car to be a total loss. 
Miss D told Tesco that she didnt want her car to be repaired. She said the reason shed 
rejected the total loss settlement was that she was unhappy with the value Tesco had put on 
her car. She said she believed she should have the right to choose whether to have the car 
repaired or accept the write-off. And she pointed out that the damage wasnt her fault, and 
that the owner of the other vehicle had accepted liability. 
Meanwhile, Miss D was in contact with representatives of the company whose vehicle had 
damaged her car, who had offered to deal with her claim. In the end she didnt go ahead with 
that, and in November 2022 Miss D agreed to Tesco arranging for her car to be repaired. 
Tesco agreed to waive the £200 excess. The repairs were carried out and Tesco wrote to 
the other drivers insurer in late November 2022, asking for reimbursement of the cost of the 
repairs. 
In December 2022 Miss D complained to this service. She said she was unhappy that she 
felt forced into having her car repaired, and was concerned that its value would be lower 
because of the damage on record. And she wasnt happy that the claim was recorded as 
being a fault claim on her insurance record. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. 
In summary, she thought Tesco had dealt with Miss Ds claim in line with the policy terms, 
but she thought it had been unclear and inconsistent about the settlement it was offering. 
She commented that Tesco had recently chased the third party but it hadnt updated Miss D 
or explained the claim recovery process to her in order to manage her expectations. As a 
result, she said Tesco should pay Miss D £75 compensation. 
Tesco disagreed with the investigators view. It said it had updated Miss D after its engineer 
inspected her car. And it pointed out that Miss D had only confirmed in November 2022 that 
she wished to go ahead with the repairs. It was only able to ask the other drivers insurer for 
reimbursement once the repairs were completed. It said it had explained the recovery 
process to Miss D, and would update her once the other drivers insurer had accepted the 
claim. 
Following Tescos further comments, the investigator revised her view of the complaint. She 
said that although the policy terms allow Tesco to decide how to settle the claim, shed 
expect it to stick to its original decision, and not to cause confusion and change what was on 
offer. She accepted that Tesco had explained the claim recovery process to Miss D. Miss D 
had asked to be contacted when there was an update. But by the time the investigator sent 
out her revised view just over two months later, no update had been provided. The 
investigator still considered that Tesco should pay compensation to Miss D. But she thought 
that £50 was a reasonable amount, rather than the £75 shed originally recommended. 
Tesco didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me. 
My provisional findings 
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss D 
and to Tesco on 1 June 2023. I said:
Miss Ds car insurance policy, like most policies we see, gives Tesco the right to take 
over the defence or settlement of any claim as it sees fit. That means it might make a 
decision Miss D disagrees with. In this case, based on the information that Miss D 
supplied, Tesco originally considered her car to be written off. But the engineer who 
assessed Miss Ds car after she rejected Tescos settlement offer, said the car could be 
repaired. And the estimated repair costs were less than the estimated value of Miss Ds 
car. While I can understand that Miss D would rather have had a cash settlement for the 
car, I dont consider that it was unfair or unreasonable of Tesco to change its view about 
whether to write the car off. 
As the investigator commented, Miss D spent some time communicating with 
representatives of the other drivers insurer about the possibility of them dealing with the 
claim. In the end, she decided to have the car repaired by Tescos repairer. Im satisfied 
that Tesco wasnt responsible for any delay in the repairs being carried out. And it 
couldnt ask the other drivers insurer to reimburse it until it had paid for the repairs. Once 
the repairs had been carried out and Tesco received the repair invoice, it contacted the 
other drivers insurer. 
I can understand Miss Ds frustration that an accident which wasnt her fault was showing 
as a fault claim on her insurance record. But this is usual where an insurer has paid 
money as a result of a claim. And Im satisfied that Tesco explained the process to 
Miss D reasonably clearly. 
In a letter to Miss D, sent on the day she reported the damage to her car, Tesco 
explained that if the claim was still open when she came to renew her policy and it hadnt 
received all its money back, it would be noted as a fault incident against her policy history 
until it got full reimbursement from the other drivers insurer. I can see that Miss D asked 
Tesco during a phone call in mid-December 2022 why the claim was showing as a fault 
claim. And Tesco explained that it was because it was still open, and that the claim would 
be closed as non- fault if it recovered the money it paid out. Tescos records of a further phone call with Miss D on the first working day of January 
2023 state that Tesco again explained that the claim would show as a fault claim until it 
was able to recover the money it had paid from the other drivers insurer. And it 
explained to Miss D that this was normal in the insurance industry. Tesco said it would 
chase the other drivers insurer. It did so straight away. 
Tesco agreed to contact Miss D when there was an update. It chased the other drivers 
insurer, but there was no further information to pass on. I acknowledge that it could, 
perhaps, have contacted Miss D to tell her there was still no update, but I dont consider 
that I can fairly require it to pay her compensation for not having done so. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss D, but taking everything into account, my current view is that 
I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
Further submissions
Miss D has told us she still believes Tesco didnt treat her fairly. She says it made her feel as 
if the accident was her fault, and left her with unanswered questions. But she says that she 
accepts my provisional decision, as there is nothing more she can do. Tesco hasnt 
responded to my provisional decision, and the time for doing so has expired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think there is any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision 
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.  
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman