DRN-3856762
The complaint
Mrs D complains about a car that she hired from MotoNovo Finance Limited under a hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
In November 2021 Mrs D acquired a used car under a five year hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. (This agreement also included a personal loan, and about ten percent of her 
monthly payments were in repayment of that loan.) The car was nearly seven years old, and 
the mileage was 56,151 miles. About three weeks later, she reported problems with the car. 
She said it would not accelerate, and there was a burning smell. About two weeks after that, 
MotoNovo closed that complaint because it said she had not provided any evidence.
In February 2022, Mrs D complained about the car again. She took the car to a local garage 
(not the dealer where she had got the car from); the mileage was 57,249. In March, a report 
was obtained from an independent expert, who said that there was probably a fault with the 
EGR cooler pipe, but that he had been unable to verify this due to the pipes location. The 
expert said that assuming this was the case, the fault must have already been present when 
Mrs D acquired the car, and so MotoNovo was liable for it. In April the EGR cooler was 
replaced. Later that month, an oil leak having been discovered while the car was still in the 
garage, the transmission oil cooler was also replaced. There was a delay in completing the 
repairs and returning the car to Mrs D, but she got the car back in May.
However, a few days after the car was returned to Mrs D she reported that the problems had 
not gone away, and the engine management light (EML) was on; this was still in May 2022. 
She returned the car to the garage. In June, the garage told her that the current issues were 
not related to the earlier repair, and that there might be a problem with the turbo. It 
regenerated the diesel particulate filter (DPF), and tested the car. Then in August, the expert 
inspected the car again. It found that the engine was losing power, which it attributed to a 
fault with the DPF, which it said was due to the car not having been driven much. (Mrs D 
replied to say that this was only because the car had been in the garage for the best part of 
five months.)
This report by the expert, and his third report in September, both said that this was a new 
fault, not connected with the earlier faults, and that it had not been present at the point of 
hire. Therefore, it concluded that MotoNovo was not liable. Based on those reports, 
MotoNovo did not uphold Mrs Ds complaint. (Significantly, the September report stated that 
the experts first report in March had not mentioned the car lacking power.)
Being dissatisfied with that outcome, Mrs D brought this complaint to our service. She said 
that the expert had been wrong to make an assumption about the cause of the problems in 
its March report, without checking. This had led it to an erroneous conclusion in its August 
and September reports. She said the expert had been unaware of the fact that since first 
taking the car to the garage, it had been in the garage for most of the time, and so it was 
unfair of the expert to blame her for the DPF fault. She insisted that the faults later on were 
the same as the original faults that she had reported in December 2021 and February 2022, 
and that the repairs in April and May had not fixed them; they had recurred only a few days 
later. She said that she had never been provided with a courtesy car, although MotoNovo 
had refunded some of her taxi costs, and had later refunded one of her monthly payments. 
She said she no longer trusted the car, as it had broken down on the motorway and 
endangered her and her children; she had had to call the police to rescue them.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ds complaint. She accepted that the DPF fault could not have 
been due to the manner of Mrs Ds driving, since she had only had the car for a short time 
(about two weeks during the five month period prior to the second inspection). She 
concluded that the car had been faulty at the point of hire in November 2021, despite what 
the experts reports said. She took into account the fact that the expert had apparently been 
unaware of the nature of the faults Mrs D had reported in 2021 and February 2022. She 
recommended that MotoNovo end the hire purchase agreement, collect the car at no cost to 
Mrs D, refund her monthly payments from March 2022 to date, refund her deposit (£100), 
deduct from the refunds the travel costs it had already paid her, and pay interest on the net 
total refunds at eight percent a year. She also recommended that MotoNovo pay Mrs D £250 
for her trouble, and remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from her 
credit file.
Mrs D accepted the investigators opinion. MotoNovo did not. It said there was no evidence 
in support of the alleged faults Mrs D had reported in December 2021 and February 2022. 
No issue with the DPF had been identified in March. The EGR cooler and the transmission 
oil cooler had been successfully replaced. The subsequent problem with the DPF had been 
found by the expert to have been caused by Mrs Ds manner of driving, since DPFs can 
become clogged if a car is only used for short journeys. The garage had said that the later 
issues were not related to what had gone before. The only problem with the car since the 
repairs had been with the DPF, and the DPF had been fine when it had been checked 
before. It asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator 
gave.
On 2 December 2021 Mrs D reported that the car was not able to accelerate, and that 
there was a smell of burning. She said the same thing on 24 February 2022. MotoNovo 
logged this description of the fault in its Customer Notes on both dates, so there is 
contemporaneous evidence of exactly what Mrs D said was wrong with the car at both times.
No evidence was supplied in December 2021, and the car does not appear to have been 
taken to a garage then, and so I think it was reasonable of MotoNovo to close that complaint 
15 days later.
When the same matter was raised again in 2022, the car was taken to a garage. I have seen 
an invoice from that garage for £90, which gives the repair date as 5 March 2022 (when the 
mileage was 52,249). It says:
Check & Report  3 weeks aft. purchase car lacking power and juddering started, 
car has cut out while driving at speeds over 40mph twice. customer has taken car 
two garages 1 who adv. dpf and other gar clarified not case but there code they 
cannot read (sic).So this is further evidence that Mrs D had reported in March that the car was lacking power, 
and it also says that another garage had diagnosed as problem with the DPF.
This garage didnt think it was the DPF. It replaced the ERG cooler pipe and the 
transmission oil cooler instead. That work was done in April and May.
Meanwhile, on 29 March, the expert wrote his first report. (The report does not say when he 
did the inspection.) This report is extremely brief, consisting of only three substantive 
paragraphs on one page. After giving the mileage, it said:
assuming the EGR cooler pipe has failed as reported, it is very likely that the 
condition will have been in an advanced state of development at the point of sale.
Clearly, at the time of our inspection, we were unable to confirm this is due to the 
location of the component.
The engine oil leak at the rear of the engine and the oil leak from the timing cover, 
due to the extent of the oil that has been dispersed, prevented the location from 
being identified fully. However, we would have to conclude taking into consideration 
the fresh evidence that this condition also would be considered to be a pre-existing 
fault.
I think that this report has only very limited probative value, since the expert does not appear 
to have attempted to identify the fault himself, but just took the garages word for it that the 
problem lay with the EGR cooler pipe. The report does not describe what steps  if any  the 
expert took to examine the car. In particular, it does no address whether the DPF was 
checked, or whether the car was taken for a test drive.
After the car was returned to Mrs D in May, she complained on 24 May about the same 
issues as before. This was also logged by MotoNovo in its internal notes. So Im satisfied 
that she has been consistent in her description of what was the matter.
The experts second report, in August 2022, is much more detailed. It says the car was 
inspected on 16 August, and the mileage was 57,583 (only 327 miles since his first 
inspection).
The expert noted that the car appeared to be in average condition. He started the engine 
from cold and found it started readily. There was no burning smell, which he attributed to the 
oil leaks having been repaired (which seems to me to be a fair assumption). A diagnostic 
test showed two fault codes, Boost pressure control and Particulate filter problem. The 
expert said These codes would be related to the vehicle losing power.
He went on to say We were also advised by the dealership that the vehicles DPF system 
will not regenerate normally or on a forced regeneration. (Emphasis added.)
He concluded:
the lack of power is consistent with a fault on the DPF system and is generally 
driver induced by only travelling short journeys and general lack of use of the 
vehicle
In a previous report by ourselves  there was no mention of the vehicle lacking 
power. All other faults on the instruction of that date have been rectified.
Due to the time that has elapsed since the previous report, we do not consider the 
reported fault to have been present or developing at the point of finance inception.Although there was no mention in the March report of the car lacking power, that is what 
Mrs D had consistently reported all along, and it is what the expert had found in this second 
report.
The experts third report, in September, is as brief as the first. It does not mention that the 
expert inspected the car a third time, and so it appears to have just been based on a review 
of the existing paperwork. It says:
The current condition under review is actually different to the original conditions 
reported and based on that and the mileage the vehicle has covered, we have seen 
no evidence from an engineering perspective that the condition could be considered 
to have been present at the point of sale.
With respect to the expert (who works for a reputable firm whose reports I have accepted in 
many previous cases), I think there are a couple of shortcomings in the way in which he 
arrived at his conclusions.
Firstly, it is impossible to determine from reading the March report how the expert was able 
to rule out that the car was lacking power at that time. Indeed, it is not evident that he was 
even told in March that Mrs D had reported that the car was lacking power. I think it is likely 
that he would have mentioned that this is what Mrs D had reported, if anyone had told him. 
So its absence from the March report leads me to think that nobody told him that this was 
the issue he was supposed to be looking into. Indeed, the report reads as though he had 
taken for granted that the faults were with the EGR cooler pipe (which was reported to him 
by the garage) and two oil leaks, and that he was only considering whether these faults 
would have been present when Mrs D hired the car. As Ive said, the report doesnt even 
state whether he test drove the car, which Im certain he would have done if he had known 
that the acceleration was a reported issue.
For all of these reasons, I do not think that the March report is persuasive evidence that 
there was no problem with the DPF in March or earlier, or that the car was not lacking power 
at the time, or that the only fault lay with the EGR cooler pipe and the two oil leaks. Those 
issues may well have been genuine faults, but I do not accept that they were the only faults, 
and I think their discovery by the garage obscured the fact that there was also a fault with 
the DPF as well. Consequently, that was missed at the time.
Secondly, Mrs D first reported that the car wouldnt accelerate properly only three weeks 
after she acquired the car. That seems very soon for the DPF to stop working properly if the 
only thing wrong with it was that the car was not being driven very much from the point at 
which Mrs D hired it. There was an even shorter period  eight days  between Mrs D 
getting the car back from the garage in May 2022, and reporting that the same problem was 
happening again. That suggests that the DPF may have been genuinely faulty, rather than 
just becoming clogged because the car was not being driven fast enough or for long enough 
to clear the DPF.
Thirdly, as Ive said, in August the garage said that the DPF would not even regenerate after 
a forced regeneration. That can happen for a number of reasons, some of which are 
because of other faults, and some of which are not (such as driving with your foot on the 
clutch, or if there is not enough fuel). But I would expect the garage and the expert to be 
aware of the non-fault reasons why that might happen, and to take steps to avoid them. So 
that just leaves another fault. Consequently, I do not think that the expert was justified in 
concluding in August that the manner of driving was the cause of the problem. Th evidence 
suggests that something else was in play  either a defect in the DPF itself, or a defect in 
something else that was affecting the DPF.For all of these reasons, I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the car was faulty 
at the point of hire, and that one of the faults  the one concerning the DPF  was missed in 
the period February to May 2022, and was not repaired.
(I find some support for that conclusion in the reference in the garages invoice to another 
garage having earlier concluded that there was a DPF issue. But I attach limited weight to 
that evidence because it is hearsay, and so I have based my decision primarily on the other 
points I have made above.)
The garage carried out the repair work on behalf of MotoNovo, and so I find that MotoNovo 
has had the opportunity to repair the car to which it is entitled under section 24 of the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. Accordingly, it is not entitled to another attempt, and Mrs D is 
entitled to reject the car under that section.
Putting things right
I think the investigators proposed remedy was broadly fair, and I would have followed it, 
except that it did not take into account the personal loan element of the credit agreement. 
The personal loan, with interest, was £1,519.80, or slightly more than ten percent of the total, 
and that still needs to be repaid. Out of each monthly payment of £251.61, £226.28 was in 
respect of the hire purchase, and £25.33 was for the personal loan. So rather than ending 
the whole agreement, I will require MotoNovo to adjust the agreement by ending the hire 
purchase part of it, and reducing Mrs Ds future monthly payments to £25.33. When I order 
MotoNovo to refund some of the payments she has already made, this will only mean 
refunding £226.28 of each payment. (This should be easy to do as I can see that on her 
statement of account the hire purchase agreement and the personal loan have been 
administered separately.)
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
End the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay;
Arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mrs D at a time which is mutually convenient;
Refund the £100 deposit;
Refund £226.28 of each monthly payment Mrs D has made since 7 March 2022 to 
date (except for the April 2022 payment which MotoNovo has already refunded), but 
MotoNovo may reduce the total amount so refunded by the total amount it has paid 
her for her taxi journeys;
Pay Mrs D simple interest on the net amount refunded at the rate of 8% a year from 
the dates the individual payments were made to the date of settlement;
Reduce Mrs Ds future monthly payments to £25.33 (to pay off her personal loan;
Pay Mrs D £250 for her distress and inconvenience (this is to be paid directly to her 
and not just off-set against her loan); and
Arrange for the credit reference agencies to remove from Mrs Ds credit file any 
adverse information about her hire purchase agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman