DRN-3043050
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Petrie and Petrie (P&P) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance. This decision covers the sale of a policy taken out in 2002 to cover a mortgage 
and a second policy taken out in 2003 to cover car finance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided that neither of the policies were mis-sold and I will explain why.
At the time of each sale P&P had a responsibility to make Mr M was aware that the PPI was 
optional and gain his consent to agree to having the policies. Theres limited paperwork 
available from the time of the sales, but this isnt unusual considering the time that has 
passed and that businesses arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely. But I 
still think Mr M would have known each policy was optional. I say this because the PPI 
policies were taken out after both the mortgage and the car finance with providers that were 
separate from those providing the finance. I also dont have enough to say Mr M didnt agree 
to take the polices.
P&P recommended both of the PPI policies to Mr M so it had to check that they were right 
for him. At the time of each sale Mr M would have been entitled to good sick pay from his 
employer and had savings. But the PPI policies would have paid out in addition to Mr Ms 
sick pay. They would also have protected Mr Ms savings so they could be used towards any
other expenses he may have had.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time each policy was sold to him he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover and Mr M seems to have 
had a need for the cover. So, I think it was right for him.
Its possible the information P&P gave Mr M about the PPI policies wasnt as clear as
it shouldve been. But I think Mr M chose to take them out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover.
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks
like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI policies would have 
put him off taking out the cover.
Mr M has told us that P&P forged his signature on several occasions and he has provided 
documents in support of this. Unfortunately, I am unable to decide on the validity of a 
signature, as a service we dont have the expertise to make a finding on this. But I have 
looked at the documents which appear to have different dates to that of the sales being 
considered. As each sale is looked at individually this would not change my decision on Mr 
Ms complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman