DRN-3958486
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) did not process refunds for him under the 
Direct Debit Guarantee (DDG) scheme.
What happened
Mr R asked for direct debits to be refunded under the DDG scheme for two companies, one 
because he said he never set up the direct debit, and one because they were taking an 
incorrect amount (they were taking £200, not £100), but he says BoS rejected the requests 
on the basis that he should keep better track of his statements. Mr R says that during the 
timeframe he was claiming for, he did not have access to online banking or their application 
(app), so he was unable to access his statements. He also had health issues which affected 
him, so he only had access to his statements in 2022 when he set up online platforms like 
the app. He also asked for a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). Mr R made a complaint 
to BoS.
BoS did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. They said his DSARs had been actioned and issued 
to him. BoS said it was determined an error wasnt present in the collection of the direct debit 
payments, which meant they werent eligible for a refund under the DDG. Mr R brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said the refund for the direct debit 
which Mr R says he never set up was rejected as this had been set up with his name and 
details, so BoS considered these details wouldve been provided to the business. So in this 
instance this would be considered a contractual dispute between Mr R and the company and 
the DDG doesnt consider contractual disputes. She said that on the other DDG claim, all 20 
payments taken as part of the instruction were for the same amount of £200, including the 
initial payment in April 2013, which didnt indicate an error. Our investigator said his DSAR 
was responded to and dealt with by BoS.
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said the wrong amount was being taken from one company and he asked 
where the proof was that he set up the direct debits, and that there was no evidence BoS 
had contacted these companies. He said BoS had broken the DDG.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive looked at the wording of the DDG. It states that The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to 
all Direct Debits. It protects you in the rare event that there is an error in the payment of your 
Direct Debit, for instance if a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is 
collected. It cannot be used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing 
organisation. 
Ive considered whether BoS should have processed the refunds that Mr R asked them to. 
But in order for BoS to do this, they would need to ensure the criteria of the DDG scheme 
was met before refunding the money. So I would not expect them to refund the money 
automatically without checking the criteria was met first. I say this because if they had 
processed the refunds and the criteria hadnt been met, then this could have caused Mr R 
difficulty if the funds were re-debited from his account, which would be the likely outcome if 
the DDG criteria hadnt been met. 
Mr R has mentioned about the proof that he set up these direct debits. So what BoS did here 
as part of their investigations to see if Mr R met the DDG criteria was to review the 
information they held on record, and they were able to check the details of the direct debit 
against a report which held the direct debit details. This report confirmed the direct debits 
were in Mr Rs name. So Im satisfied that this would indicate that Mr R had provided 
authority to the companies involved.
In relation to the wrong amount being taken on one of the direct debits, the information 
shows that since the first payment had debited the account in April 2013, the payment had 
always been for £200 a month. As the information shows on the How to set up a Direct 
Debit page on the DDG website, that The organisation will give you advance notice of 
collection dates and amounts, whether you set up a Direct Debit by telephone, online or 
using a paper form. Check these details are correct and contact them straight away if you 
want to query anything.
So on the balance of probability, the organisation would have given Mr R advance notice of 
the collection amount prior to the first payment being taken. But as this was over ten years 
ago, records are unlikely to be held for the communication Mr R was sent. As Mr R has said 
this payment should have been for £100 a month and not £200 a month, then it would have 
been proportionate for him to check the details were correct initially and contact the 
company straight away if he wanted to query them. But he should have been aware of this 
when his statements showed the direct debit leaving his account.
Although Ive considered what Mr R has said about his health, he told BoS information about 
his health issues in 2015 and 2018, so it would appear that Mr R could have contacted BoS 
prior to 2015 when the direct debit had been debiting his account since April 2013. Although 
Mr R has said he didnt have access to his statements, Ive reviewed the customer notes and 
there is no entry to show Mr R informed BoS that he couldnt access his statements online 
and that he requested paper statements. But the notes show that between 27 November 
2014 and 26 November 2015, that Mr R cancelled six direct debits/standing orders. And he 
contacted BoS to cancel 13 direct debits/standing orders between 26 February 2016-25 
November 2018, which indicates he was able to manage his account and shouldve been 
aware of the activity on his account.
Ive considered what Mr R has said about BoS not contacting these companies and they 
have broken the DDG. But BoS are not required to contact these companies if the 
information available to them indicated Mr R didnt meet the criteria for a refund under the 
DDG scheme. And Im persuaded that the information that BoS held pointed to a contractual 
dispute with the companies, and I dont find that they have broken the DDG. As contractual 
disputes arent covered under the DDG scheme, then Mr R will need to speak to these 
companies directly. I can also see that BoS actioned his DSAR. So it follows I dont require 
BoS to do anything further.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman