DRN-3283821
The complaint
Mr E complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr E is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In January 2019 Mr E was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr E decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed in February 2019.
In November 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mr Es behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr E to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The feed in tariff (FIT) and electricity savings would cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs and make the system self-funding.
Shawbrook issued a final response s and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr E or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However, it offered £200 compensation in recognition of to delays in responding to the 
complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr E and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr E relied on the verbal representations made by the sales representative, that the 
system would be self-funding through the income received through the FIT and the 
savings achieved on their electricity costs as a result of installing solar panels. 
Mr E placed little reliance on the Project Solar documentation, because the salesman 
was so convincing with the way he verbally explained the financial benefits of the 
system. 
The sale in this matter was conducted in our clients home, face to face, and as such 
the vast majority of the sales meeting was conducted verbally. 
Mr E had no reason to believe that the assurances he had been given during the 
course of that meeting were inaccurate. He simply trusted the sales representative 
and the constant assurances that the solar panel system would cover its own cost 
and would be entirely self-funding. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr E paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr E could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr E and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these 
in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Es recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central 
part of the sales process with P when Mr E agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I 
have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mr E agreed to enter into the contract.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr E makes it clear that the cost of the system was 
£10,064.25. And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due, Im satisfied that this made it clear that, although the cost of the system was 
£10,064.25, it would cost Mr E more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest 
bearing loan.The quote makes clear that Mr E paid £300 up front with the remaining amount of £9,764.25 
paid using the loan. The loan would be repayable through 120 payments of £118.80, making 
a total amount repayable of £14,256.00. So, if the loan ran to its full term, the total payable 
for the system would be £14,556.00
FIT payments
Mr E has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr E has said.
The impact of solar page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr E could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year, the expected savings in the first year and total combined income 
and savings over 25 years. 
I think that this makes it clear that Mr E could expect to receive a total FIT income in year 
one of £225.91.
Theres a section headed What will you earn and save per year? with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 
months because this is the length of the loan that Mr E entered into with Shawbrook. 
This table shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £118.80. For each year 
of the 10-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then 
averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £118.80, 
to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly 
loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income and savings Mr E could expect to receive from 
the system, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. I think the table 
clearly compares the FIT income to the monthly loan repayments and sets out that the 
overall income Mr E could expect to receive would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments at any point within the term of the loan. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
This is further illustrated in the following graph which shows the savings and income would 
remain below the annual cost of the system, creating a shortfall. And that it would not be 
until after the 12th year that the system would pay for itself.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr E that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table and graph above which sets out the estimated average monthly 
income from the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan 
repayment. Im satisfied that the table and graph is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr E was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. The graph suggests this would be after the 12th year. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of year 13 the overall benefits that 
Mr E could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable if the loan ran 
to term. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr E that the system would pay for itself by the 
end of year 13, as supported by the table and graph above. If that were an untrue statement 
of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr E. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,524 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Es FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated about 3,600 kWh per year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point 
of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2019 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why he hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from 
the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, 
the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr E couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr E entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr E to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman