DRN-4039224
The complaint
Mr G complains that the advice he was given by Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension (PP) was unsuitable and caused him a financial loss. 
Mr G is being represented, but for ease of reference Ill refer to him throughout. 
What happened
In or around May 1990, when Mr G was aged 28, Wesleyan provided him with advice on his 
deferred DB pension scheme, which hed left in August 1989. Mr G accepted Wesleyans 
advice to transfer his benefits to a PP, made up of two parts to reflect the protected and   
non-protected rights, and this was set up in October 1990.
While documentation from the time of the advice is limited, Mr Gs DB scheme had a transfer 
value of £3,921.37, which would pay him an annual income of £1,031.68, plus a total annual 
GMP of £376.48 and a lump sum of £3,095.04. And this would be revalued each year until 
his scheme retirement age of 65.  
In 2021, Mr G complained to Wesleyan that, in summary, the transfer advice wasnt in his 
best interests as he was giving up valuable and guaranteed benefits and wasnt told the PP 
would need to perform well to match these, particularly when taking the charges into 
account. Mr G said he wasnt willing to risk his pension as he was a low to medium risk 
investor, with no investment experience or other provision. 
In response, Wesleyan said it tried to contact Mr G as part of the industrywide pensions 
review saying his policy may have been mis-sold, but didnt receive a response. And that 
hed made his complaint too late for our Service to consider it. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G brought his complaint to us. And we decided we could consider his 
complaint, as it had been made in time.
One of our Investigators looked into it. He recognised that a critical yield wouldnt have been 
calculated and said that we dont know what Mr Gs DB scheme benefits revalued to age 65 
would have been at the time of the advice. But he said that it was likely the transfer was 
financially viable, based on the regulators growth rates in comparison to the FVT rate of 
what was considered achievable by the average investor at the time. And that Mr G went 
ahead on that basis, given theres nothing to suggest he had any other reasons for 
transferring other than that the PP was projected to outperform his DB scheme benefits.  
Mr G didnt agree adding, in summary, that the transfer advice led him to give up a 
guaranteed income and exposed his pension to market risks, leaving him disadvantaged. 
And that he was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits, with no other reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. 
So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
I let the parties know I dont intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint and provided additional 
reasoning to that of the Investigator, including providing approximate figures that I think 
demonstrate, on balance, that at the time of the advice it was reasonable to assume the PP 
would outperform Mr Gs revalued DB scheme benefits. And I invited Mr G to provide further 
comments and information. 
Mr G responded with a calculation carried out by his representative that he says shows his 
DB scheme would have been valued at around £68,161.40 today. He said that, while he 
recognises our Service isnt an actuary and cant check these, hes experienced a loss given 
that in 2017 he cashed in his PP for £36,069.38. Mr G said we cant safely say the advice 
was suitable when we dont know what the critical yield was. And that he had to take more of 
a risk to match his DB scheme benefits, which wasnt highlighted to him at the time. 
Mr G said my decision shouldnt be based on the industry projections given at the time, as 
these werent guaranteed. He said the calculation shows what his DB scheme benefits 
revalued to age 65 would have been. Mr G maintained he was a low to medium risk investor 
and said he wouldnt have acted against Wesleyans advice if it had advised him not to 
transfer. Mr G also referenced another decision given by our Service, which he says very 
similar and supports his case, the only difference being a critical yield was provided in that 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wesleyan said Mr Gs complaint was brought to our Service too late for us to consider it.       
I dont intend to revisit that, as an Ombudsman has already given a decision explaining why 
shes satisfied Mr G brought this complaint in time and that its one I can consider.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what   
I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And where evidence is 
incomplete as in Mr Gs case due to the lapse of time since the advice was given, Ive 
reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence in the circumstances.  
Wesleyan gave its advice in 1990. At that time the relevant regulator was the Life Assurance
and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). The rules set by LAUTRO in relation to
selling practices therefore applied. In short these required Wesleyan to exercise
due skill, care and diligence, deal fairly with Mr G, consider his position and relevant
circumstances and not advise him to enter into a contract unless it thought doing so was in
his best interests.
Having taken everything into account, I see no reason to depart from my initial thoughts 
which Ive set out again below.  
While I recognise Mr Gs said he had a low to medium attitude to risk at the time of the 
advice and no previous investment experience, he was towards the start of his working life 
with the potential to accrue other pensions and assets on top of the savings hes said he 
had. Mr G was single and seemingly had no dependents to provide for. The transfer value of 
his DB scheme was modest and he had a long investment horizon with 36 years until his 
intended retirement age. I also note that following the transfer Mr G appears to have 
invested and remained in funds with a moderate risk rating and that he hasnt disputed the suitability of the investment advice he was given. For these reasons, its reasonable to think 
Mr G would have accepted a medium level of risk at the time.
The advice was given during the period of the industry-wide Pensions Review, so the rates 
the regulator published for Financial Viability Tests (FVT) are directly relevant here. The 
upper limit the regulator gave for a FVT was 13.7% per year for 36 years to retirement in    
Mr Gs case. For further comparison, the regulator's standard growth projection rates at the 
time were 13% at the upper rate, 10.75% the middle rate and a lower rate of 8.5%.
I can see that the PP illustration Wesleyan prepared for Mr G projected a total annual 
pension at age 65 of £3,802 with tax-free cash (TFC) of £10,800 based on the lower growth 
rate or £18,593 with TFC of £47,900 based on the upper growth rate. In light of this, given     
I think Mr G had a medium risk profile, its reasonable to think the middle growth rate of 
10.75% would have given him a projected annual pension of roughly around £11,000 with 
TFC around £30,000.
Mr Gs total DB scheme benefits, while guaranteed, were relatively modest. The annual 
income of £1,031.68 and lump sum of £3,095.04 would seemingly be revalued each year 
until age 65 in line with the Retail Price Index (RPI) percentage increase. And the total 
annual GMP of £376.48 would seemingly to be revalued in line with the rate of national 
average earnings (NAE) increases.
Given what we now know about the RPI and NAE increases since 1990 with just a few years 
until Mr G reaches 65 (albeit with the benefit of hindsight), if he had remained in his DB 
scheme then based on rough estimates it seems his revalued annual income to age 65 
would have approximately totalled £3,500 (including the GMP), with a lump sum of around 
£9,000. And the calculations Mr Gs provided showing his revalued annual DB scheme 
benefits are similar, as these show he would have been entitled to a total annual income 
(seemingly including the GMP) of £3,338.07. 
While Wesleyan wasnt required to calculate the critical yield at the time  the investment 
return required to at least match the DB scheme benefits at age 65 that Mr G was giving up 
 I think this would likely have been around 8%, given his revalued annual DB income was 
less than the projected PP income based on the 8.5% lower growth rate. And, in any case, 
for reasons given above, I think Mr Gs revalued DB scheme benefits were likely to be 
significantly lower than the 10.75% middle growth rate projections and the FVT of 13.7% that 
a medium risk investor (in the way I think Mr G was) anticipated achieving by transferring to 
a PP.
Ive taken into account Mr Gs comments about the rates and I recognise hes disappointed 
that his PP hasnt performed as anticipated, as these havent borne out in reality. But that 
doesnt mean Wesleyan did anything wrong at the time of the advice. These were assumed 
and regulator approved growth rates used at the time. And it was standard practice, and       
I think reasonable, for Wesleyan to base its PP projections on these to help it determine 
whether or not the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests. 
I note Mr G has referred to what weve said in a previous decision. But I have to consider the 
circumstances individual to his complaint. And I think its worth noting that in the previous 
decision the relevant rates were lower than in Mr Gs case.  
In summary, having everything into account, along with the composition of assets in the FVT 
rate, Mr Gs attitude to risk and term to retirement, I think he was likely to receive benefits of 
a higher overall value than with the DB scheme at retirement as a result of transferring and 
investing in line with his medium risk profile. And that Mr G accepted Wesleyans advice on 
this basis. So I dont think Wesleyan did anything wrong. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against 
Wesleyan Assurance Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman