DRN-3966247
The complaint
Miss W complains that Madison CF UK Limited (Madison), trading as 118 118 Money,  
irresponsibly granted her a credit card she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2021 Miss W entered into an agreement with Madison to have access to credit by 
way of a credit card account. 
Miss W says that Madison didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened her 
credit card account or increased her credit limit. She says she was already struggling 
financially at the time.
Madison upheld Miss Ws complaint and found that it ought to have found out more about 
Miss Ws circumstances before approving the application. It therefore offered to compensate 
Miss W by refunding all interest charges from the date of the card opening and removing any 
negative data from her credit file. 
Our adjudicator thought that Madisons offer was fair and in line with our approach to 
redress. 
As Miss W is unhappy with the offer and redress that has been paid to her, the complaint 
has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Madison will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Madison has offered to refund all interest from the opening of the account. It does not charge 
any late or missed payment fees on the type of credit card account Miss W has. This will 
have the effect of reducing the current outstanding balance. It has also said it will remove 
any negative data relating to the account to date from Miss Ws credit file. 
Our adjudicator has looked at the offer and has explained that it is in line with the way we 
expect businesses to compensate a consumer in these circumstances when we find that a 
business has acted unfairly in providing credit by way of a credit card. I would add that in  
this instance Madison is offering to remove all negative credit information from Miss Ws 
credit file whilst the account still has an outstanding balance. 
I have considered the terms of the offer. I can see that its in line with the redress we ask 
businesses to pay and reflects the particular circumstances of the account. Madison has 
confirmed the account balance and the amount of arrears that is currently outstanding. I 
should also point out that as there is still money owing on the account, Miss W wouldnt be 
due any interest on her refund. The position would be different if Miss W had a credit 
balance. 
Miss W has requested that the whole outstanding balance on her account should be written 
off. She says this is what happened with the credit shed taken out with another business. 
That is something that it is open to a business to choose to do at any time, even after a 
complaint has been brought to us. But generally speaking, this service does not ask credit 
card businesses to write off remaining balances on accounts. 
When upholding a complaint, it is also usual for us to recommend that any interest that is 
refunded be used to pay off in whole or part any remaining balances on the relevant 
account. Thats what Madison has done in Miss Ws case, crediting the refund to her 
account to help reduce he existing balance. This is fair and reasonable given that Miss W 
has already had the benefit of the money she has spent on her card. 
It follows that I consider Madisons offer to be fair and reasonable given the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
I would however expect Madison to continue to act with appropriate forbearance in seeking 
to assist Miss W in her efforts to find a fair and manageable way to pay back the balance 
that is still owing on her account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint and so dont 
require Madison CF UK Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman