DRN-4272796
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a travel disruption claim she made on 
a travel insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a brief 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mrs Z has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account. 
In November 2022, Mrs Z was abroad. She was due to return to the UK, taking connecting 
flights, which were operated by two different airlines. However, the first leg of Mrs Zs return 
flight was delayed, before being cancelled. This meant she missed the second leg of her 
return flight.
Mrs Zs travel agent tried to assist her. It contacted both airlines, which said that they would 
arrange replacement flights for Mrs Z. However, the travel agent wasnt able to unlock Mrs 
Zs tickets, despite it contacting both airlines.
On that basis, Mrs Z made her own return travel arrangements  and incurred additional 
travel and accommodation costs in doing so. And she made a travel disruption claim on her 
travel insurance policy.
AWP turned down the claim. It said that because the airlines had arranged replacement 
flights for Mrs Z, shed already recovered her losses. So Mrs Z asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs Zs complaint should be upheld. She considered a letter Mrs Z 
had provided from her travel agent, which showed that it hadnt been able to access the 
flights the airlines had offered. This meant that Mrs Z hadnt been able to travel by these 
means. And therefore, the investigator didnt think it was fair to say that Mrs Zs losses had 
been recovered. She recommended that that AWP should reconsider Mrs Zs claim, in line 
with the policy terms and conditions and that it should pay her £150 compensation.
AWP disagreed. It said that cover only applied if a policyholder couldnt recover their losses 
from any other source. In this case, it considered that the airlines had been responsible for 
taking care of Mrs Z until her rearranged return flight. AWP felt that the travel agents letter 
showed that it had been taking steps to resolve things with the airline, but it had been Mrs 
Zs choice to make her own arrangements. It did, however, agree to reconsider Mrs Zs 
additional accommodation costs and taxi cost, as these were unrelated to the flights.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AWP has treated Mrs Z fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mrs Zs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think AWP has 
treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mrs Z and AWP. AWP has considered the claim under the Travel delay provisions 
of the Travel Disruption section of the policy. This includes the following term:
We will pay you
Your reasonable additional travel (including up to £200 for taxis and hire cars) and 
accommodation expenses, which are of a similar standard to that of your pre-booked travel 
and accommodation and which cannot be claimed back from any other source, if you have 
to make alternative arrangements to reach your destination.
Page 40 of the policy sets out a specific list of things AWP doesnt cover. One of these is:
Any unused or additional costs incurred by you recoverable from:
a) The providers of the accommodation, their booking agents, a travel agent or another 
compensation scheme.
b) The providers of the transportation, their booking agents, a travel agent or another 
compensation scheme such as ABTA  The Travel Association or Air Travel Organisers 
Licensing (ATOL).
Based on AWPs response to our investigators assessment, it seems its now prepared to 
reconsider the claim for Mrs Zs accommodation and taxi costs. So I dont think I need to 
consider this issue further, other than to confirm that I agree with our investigators findings 
on this point. It appears then that the remaining issue for me to decide is whether its fair for 
AWP to decline to reconsider Mrs Zs flight costs. 
The travel agents evidence clearly shows that both airlines did take steps to arrange new 
flights for Mrs Z, in line with their responsibilities. In some cases, I may conclude that if a 
travel provider had offered a suitable alternative means of travel, then a policyholder had 
had the opportunity to recover their losses.
But in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont find that AWPs position is fair. 
The travel agent makes it clear that while the airlines had tried to arrange new flights for Mrs 
Z, the travel agent  and therefore, Mrs Z  wasnt able to access them. The travel agent 
appears to have been actively engaged with trying to work things out with both airlines and 
referred to much to-ing and fro-ing. Theres no indication as to when any technical issue 
was likely to have been resolved, or when Mrs Z wouldve been able to travel. I find then that 
Mrs Z wasnt able to recover her losses from her airline, because she simply wasnt able to 
use the flights shed been offered.
As such, I think it was fair for Mrs Z to decide to try and make her own arrangements to 
return home and mitigate the potential additional accommodation and travel costs she could 
incur if shed remained abroad until the ticket issue could be resolved. And the travel agent 
clearly stated that it didnt think either airline would offer Mrs Z a refund. So I dont think it appears that Mrs Z has been or will be able to recover the costs she incurred as a result of 
the delay.
On the particular facts of this complaint, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for AWP 
to also reconsider Mrs Zs flight costs in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, in addition to her additional accommodation and taxi costs. It will be for Mrs Z to 
provide AWP with any additional evidence it may require. If Mrs Z is unhappy with the 
outcome of AWPs re-assessment of her claim, she may be able to bring a new complaint to 
us about that issue alone.
Our investigator also felt that AWP should pay Mrs Z £150 compensation. As Ive explained 
above, I dont think AWPs claims decision was fair. And I think it had enough information to 
be able to determine that Mrs Z likely wouldnt be able to recover her costs from either 
airline. So I think its put her to some unnecessary trouble and upset over a period of a few 
months. In my view, an award of £150 compensation is reasonable to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience I think Mrs Z was caused by AWPs handling of her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to:
- Reconsider Mrs Zs travel disruption claim, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy; and
- Pay Mrs Z £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman