DRN-3171140
The complaint
Mr H complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave him unsuitable advice to 
switch his personal pensions into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and in underlying 
investments that didnt match his attitude to risk. He says hes suffered a financial loss as a 
result.
Mr H is represented in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reference, all actions and 
comments will be noted as Mr Hs.
What happened
Mr H was contacted by an introducer via a cold call and asked if he would like a free pension 
review. He was then put in touch with Portal.
Portal carried out a fact find and produced a suitability report dated 29 September 2011. It 
said the purpose of the report was to review Mr Hs pension policies in terms of charges and 
performance to assist him in making an informed decision whether it was in his best interests 
to switch his policies to an alternative provider, whilst freeing up a tax-free cash lump sum to 
assist his current needs. 
It noted the following about Mr H:
he was 56 years old;
he was separated;
he was working and earning around £55,000 a year. He was looking to retire at age 
68;
he lived in rented accommodation paying £1,000 a month; 
he had an outstanding loan balance of about £25,000 and was paying around £600 a 
month towards that; 
once his everyday expenditure had been taken into account, Mr H had a net 
disposable income of about £200 a month. He had no other assets or liabilities;
Mr H was expecting an inheritance of about £10,000; 
He had death in service benefits worth about 4 times his salary; 
Mr H indicated hed like to take the maximum tax-free cash available to start his own 
business, which would provide an income in retirement. He wanted to continue investing the 
remainder of his funds and didnt want to take an income. He was unsure how much income 
hed need in retirement. 
At the time of the advice Mr H had four personal pension policies: 
two with a company Ill refer to as S with a combined switch value of £77,395 
(£32,927 and £44,468) 
one with a company Ill refer to as Z with a switch value of £443; 
one with a company Ill refer to as P with a switch value of £1,277;
Portal noted that Mr Hs other objectives were to:
consolidate his investments, as far as reasonable, to facilitate clearer and simpler 
reporting on investment performance; 
ensure he had a good awareness of the investment opportunities available; 
ensure his portfolio reflected his current risk and reward profile; 
have access to a system that would monitor the performance of his investments;
be kept informed of the performance of his portfolio; 
have his portfolio rebalanced in line with his risk and reward profile; 
Portal said we normally only give advice when we have obtained a full picture of your 
financial and personal circumstances, on this occasion you have requested that we limit our 
advice to your retirement planning only. We have therefore not considered the suitability of 
our recommendations in relation to your full financial circumstances.
It set out a number of risk warnings which included:
releasing his pension benefits early could reduce Mr Hs income in retirement. It said 
it was only suitable for a limited number of people and circumstances; 
by taking his tax-free cash now, Mr H would not be entitled to any further tax-free 
cash; 
by taking pension release, Mr Hs state benefits may be adversely affected; 
any income Mr H took from his pension would be subject to income tax.
Portal noted various income options available to Mr H including a pension fund drawdown. It 
thought drawdown was the most suitable option as it would release tax-free cash and leave 
the residual amount of Mr Hs fund invested.
Portal deemed Mr H to have an adventurous attitude to investment risk.   
Portal said I would normally recommend that you leave your pension benefits where they 
are as this will be most beneficial to you in retirement. However, during our telephone 
conversation you advised me that you are aware of the downfalls in taking your benefits now 
but due to your current circumstances you would like to take your benefits immediately. 
Portal recommended that Mr H switch his existing pensions into a SIPP with a company I'll 
refer to as T and that:
he take his full 25% tax-free cash entitlement (£19,778) 
he leave the residual fund invested until he required an income; 
It said that would enable him to start his own business; restructure his portfolio to match his 
current risk/reward profile and have greater long-term flexibility to maintain his pension in 
line with his risk/reward profile.
It recommended the following investments:
37.5% Raithwaites Hypa Fund  unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS)
17.5% Hypa Asia Fund (UCIS) 
17.5% Venture Oil International
17.5% EOS Solar Energy
10% Cash Deposit
Portal told Mr H that such investments were restricted under Section 238 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), which meant they were only available to certain 
types of investors. And that was largely on the grounds that they carried more risks than 
regulated collective investment schemes. Whilst Mr H wasnt exempt or a sophisticated investor, Portal felt he was a person for whom we as an Independent Advisory Firm 
qualified to advise on UCIS investments have taken reasonable steps to ensure that the 
investment in the particular collective investment scheme(s) is suitable following a full KYC 
(Know Your Customer Investigation) and ATR (Attitude to Risk Assessment), this therefore 
provides an exemption under COBS (Conduct of Business) regulations 4.12.
It added that while the funds invested in his pension could be considered relatively illiquid 
investments, they did produce returns that could be used to meet Mr Hs income 
requirements. And, as such, Portal considered them suitable. Especially as Mr H was not 
looking to withdraw an income for some years to come.
Portal felt that T offered a competitive charging structure. It said its own charges included an 
initial 5% of the total of the switch value which would be deducted from the residual fund and 
an ongoing charge of 1% per year to manage his investments. It pointed out that by taking 
the tax-free cash from his pension, Mr H was moving to a contract with higher charges in 
order to access the required funds. It also explained that there were other charges 
associated with the personal pension, including an initial setup fee and annual administration 
fees. On top of that there were individual fund charges.
Portal told Mr H this strategy would cost him more than his existing arrangement, but would 
offer potential growth that was not available to him at present. It also pointed out that by 
taking a tax-free cash lump sum at that point, Mr H would have a reduced amount of money 
available to him when he retired and there was no option to release another tax-free lump 
sum. 
It also said that it had discussed other ways in which Mr H could potentially raise additional 
funds, such as securing further borrowing. But Mr H apparently discounted that as he didnt 
want to pay further interest. He also couldnt re-mortgage, as he didnt own a property. 
In conclusion Portal felt that the best course of action was for Mr H to switch his current 
pensions into a SIPP with T. It said that the plan would be owned by Mr H and that he'd have 
full control over the company his pension was invested with and the funds it was invested in.  
Mr H followed Portals advice.
Portal sent Mr H an investment update in September 2015. Amongst other things it said that 
the Raithwaite scheme had expected to return Mr Hs capital to him in 2018 or 2023.  But so 
far, it has actually only made a single interest payment at a lower rate than 8%, and no 
interest was paid in 2014. Clearly this is not what was expected and we have been putting 
constant pressure on Hypa Raithwaite to resolve the situation. Whilst occupancy rates have 
been high, the hotel has not traded sufficiently profitably to enable the interest to be paid to 
the lenders when expected. 
In other updates it outlined the challenges associated with some of the schemes Mr H was 
invested in. And it explained the knock-on effect in terms of the value of his investments.  
Mr H later complained to Portal about the advice hed received. Portal initially felt the 
complaint had been made too late. However, amongst other things it said that if the issues 
regarding interest payments from Mr Hs funds hadn't been resolved by his state retirement 
age, it would personally pay him a retirement income based on the original expectations 
about fund performance and current annuity rates. It added that Mr H wouldn't be expected 
to reimburse any payments made. It said such an offer was made without any admission of 
liability on its part. 
Mr H complained to our service and an ombudsman here determined that the complaint had 
been made in time. So, we went on to consider the merits of the complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. Amongst other things, 
he didnt think Portal had explored enough viable alternatives for Mr H to fund his new 
business, nor did he think there was a pressing need for Mr H to take his tax-free cash when he did. Especially as Mr H wasnt even sure what type of business he wanted to set up, nor 
were there enough details about when it would realistically get started. Therefore, the 
investigator didn't think Portal had fully explored the feasibility of Mr Hs objective. He also 
didnt think the reasons given for the pension switch justified Mr H incurring such significant 
charges. And whilst he felt that, with the right advice, Mr H might have done something 
differently with his pension funds, the investigator thought his existing pension schemes 
were fit for purpose (so hed probably have stayed in them). He also didn't think that Mr H 
was an adventurous investor as Portal indicated he was. Overall, the investigator didn't think 
that Mr H would have gone ahead with the switch had Portal not given him the advice it had. 
Portal didnt agree and asked to appeal the investigators assessment. Amongst its 
comments it said that whilst Mr H might have been able to release his tax-free cash within 
his existing pension policies, hed have been required to take an income via an annuity, 
which Mr H didnt want to do. Nor did he want to take on additional borrowing to fund his new 
business. Portal said that it relied on the accuracy of Mr Hs answers to help determine his 
attitude to risk and felt it complied with COBS when doing so. And as he was about to 
receive an inheritance, Portal felt that increased Mr Hs capacity for loss and meant he could 
bear some investment risk. It felt it had clearly demonstrated why the advice was suitable in 
Mr Hs case.
Our investigator didnt agree with Portals position. And, as Portal didnt accept the 
investigators assessment, the matters been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Portal is adamant it gave suitable advice in Mr Hs case. And its made a 
number of detailed points, which it feels supports its position. 
What was Portal required to do?
My starting point in a case like this is to think about what Portal was required to do in order 
to fulfil the requirements set by the regulator.
Apart from the overarching principles for businesses, which include:
Principle 1  Integrity; Principle 2 - skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 - customers interests; 
Principle 9 - reasonable care; COBS sets out other obligations. In particular, COBS 9.2.1 R 
required Portal to take reasonable steps to make sure any personal recommendations were 
suitable for Mr H. That meant it was required to find out about Mr Hs knowledge and 
experience (relevant to the specific type of investment) his financial situation and investment 
objectives.
COBS 9.2.2 R says that businesses should gather enough information to ensure the 
recommendation met the customers objectives; the customer could bear the risks involved; 
and had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks. 
Under the heading of Income withdrawals, short-term annuities, COBS 9.3.3 said
When a firm is making a personal recommendation to a retail client about income 
withdrawals or purchase of short-term annuities, it should consider all the relevant 
circumstances including:
(1) the client's investment objectives, need for tax-free cash and state of health;
(2) current and future income requirements, existing pension assets and the relative 
importance of the plan, given the clients financial circumstances;(3) the clients attitude to risk, ensuring that any discrepancy is clearly explained between his 
attitude to an income withdrawal or purchase of a short-term annuity and other investments.
So, its against that backdrop that Ive considered whether Portal acted fairly and reasonably 
in Mr Hs case.
Was Portals advice for Mr H to switch suitable?
Mr H was cold called by an introducer who offered him a free pension review. And he was 
then put in touch with Portal. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr H was intent on switching his 
pensions before he was introduced to Portal. So, it needed to ensure it fully understood his 
needs and whether they were reasonable or warranted. I say that because part and parcel of 
making sure it gave suitable advice was as much about balancing Mr Hs circumstances at 
the time of the advice with his needs in retirement.
Portal noted that it would normally seek full financial information before advising a client. But, 
on this occasion you have requested that we limit our advice to your retirement planning 
only. We have therefore not considered the suitability of our recommendations in relation to 
your full financial circumstances.
Mr Hs pensions were savings for his retirement. And these appear to have been his sole 
pension provision. So, its difficult to see how Portal could really help him make an informed 
decision on whether or not it would be in your best interest to switch these pension policies 
to an alternative provider without having access to all of the information that might have 
been helpful when making such a decision. 
One of Mr Hs objectives was to free up a tax-free lump sum to help start a business. I can 
certainly see that being able to take around £20,000 from a pension pot was probably an 
attractive proposition for him  particularly as he had no other savings to fall back on. But, as 
Portal pointed out, releasing his pension benefits early was likely to reduce the amount of 
income available in retirement - the main purpose of having pension savings.
And, bearing in mind that his existing pension arrangements didnt allow Mr H to take a tax-
free lump sum and leave the remainder invested as he wanted, Portal needed to think about 
this very carefully and explore all viable options. According to its suitability report, Mr H didnt 
want to take on additional borrowing and pay more interest. Whilst I can certainly appreciate 
that position, its possible there may have been options to consolidate Mr Hs existing loan 
with additional borrowing and, potentially give him access to a more favourable interest rate. 
But its not clear to what extent, if at all, Portal explored that. And, Im also inclined to agree 
with our investigator, as Mr H indicated he wanted the tax-free cash to start up a new 
business, there may have been grants or other suitable loans available to him. Again, it 
doesnt seem that this was explored as a potential option. 
But on top of all of this, I think Portal also needed to think about whether Mr Hs objective of 
taking tax-free cash to start a business was a legitimate personal objective for him. And if it 
was, whether it was a current or future objective. If it didnt think it was, it needed to say so. I 
say that because Mr H was only 56 years old when he took advice and it seems he was 
intending to stay in full time employment until his normal retirement age. And whilst I can see 
why he might have started to turn his attention to what happened after retirement and how 
he might supplement his pension income, Ive seen nothing that persuades me starting a 
new business was a pressing objective at that point. 
Thats largely because Mr H apparently wasnt even sure what type of business he might 
open. So, I think that, in itself, shows it was probably a longer-term goal. Even allowing for 
the fact that hed probably need to get things up and running in advance of his retirement, its difficult to understand the sense of urgency here. Nor is it clear based on the evidence Ive 
seen, whether the tax-free cash would even have covered the costs that Mr H might incur. 
And whilst theres brief reference to the fact that Mr H soon expected to receive an 
inheritance of about £10,000, its not really clear to what extent Portal thought about whether 
that would go some way at least, to helping Mr H achieve his aim without the need for him to 
take his full tax-free cash. These are the sorts of things Id have expected Portal to explore.
Bearing in mind that Portal ended up recommending that Mr H switch to a scheme, which by 
its own admission, was far more expensive to run, it needed to give fairly compelling reasons 
why it was in Mr Hs best interests to take his tax-free cash and switch at the point he did. In 
the specific circumstances of this case and for the reasons Ive outlined, I dont think Portal 
has done enough to show that. And I think a more appropriate response would have been to 
say that Mr H would have been better continuing to invest in his existing pensions. 
Especially, as Ive said, theres nothing to suggest he wasnt happy with them. Assuming 
Mr H still needed to take a tax-free lump sum later on (which in itself was likely to have 
grown in value), Portal could have reassessed the situation then.
The only other likely reasons for switching would have been so Mr H could consolidate his 
investments to achieve clearer and simpler reporting on investment performance.  He also 
hoped to realign his investments to his attitude to risk and, in turn, achieve the growth that 
Portal said would otherwise not have been available to him. For reasons that Ill go on to 
explain however, Im also not persuaded that Portal has done enough to show that those 
objectives were best achieved by Mr H switching his pensions. 
From what Portal noted, it seems Mr H was probably looking for simplicity and being able to 
see at a glance how his investments were doing. Given that, Im not necessarily persuaded 
investing in a SIPP was the right way to achieve that aim. As Portal explained, a SIPP can 
combine the traditional elements of a personal pension with a self-investment option, giving 
you the opportunity to invest outside conventional insured funds. The plan can be split into 
two parts  the insured part and the self-invested part. And whilst its true to say that Mr Hs 
investments sat within one overall wrapper as opposed to across a number of different 
pension plans, the underlying investments sat within a range of different funds. Each of 
those would have had its own performance update and charging structure. 
So, it seems to me that Mr Hs investments possibly became a little more complicated to 
understand, not less. I say that in particular because the evidence doesnt show that Mr H 
was an experienced investor. And whilst he may have indicated he was comfortable 
investing in the stock market, thats not the same as having the experience to understand 
the investments. Portal said it recommended Mr H invest in a SIPP because it gave him the 
opportunity to invest in funds outside of conventional ones. For similar reasons to those Ive 
already given, I dont think Mr H needed access to the range of investment choices that 
Portal thought he did. And the upshot is that I think what Mr H ended up with was a far more 
expensive and complicated plan and fee structure than hed otherwise been used to or 
needed. 
I think it might have been easier to argue that Portal had compelling reasons for 
recommending Mr H invest in a SIPP if it could demonstrate it would likely give him a better 
return on his investments. After all, it specifically said a factor in its recommendations was 
that Mr Hs investments would likely achieve growth that would otherwise have been 
unavailable from his previous investments. And Mr Hs representative has suggested he was 
probably also looking for performance growth (albeit in line with his attitude to risk). But, 
bearing in mind that his residual fund would have been reduced by taking out the tax-free 
cash (and hes unlikely to have had the financial means to instantly make up the difference) I 
think it was important for Mr H to understand the potential growth that his investments might 
achieve. So as to make an informed decision. But other than a general statement, I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that Portal gave Mr H a reasonable comparison to show him whether the SIPP might provide a greater return at retirement. So, I cant really see how 
Mr H could have made a fully informed decision and formed the view that hed be better off 
at retirement by investing in the SIPP.
But, there are other reasons that lead me to conclude Portals advice wasnt suitable. I 
accept that Portal made it pretty clear that Mr Hs new pension arrangements would be more 
expensive. Thats also supported by the evidence Ive seen relating to Mr Hs previous plans. 
And, as Ive indicated, as the value of Mr Hs fund instantly reduced by 5% before any other 
administrative or fund charges were added, the performance of the SIPP had to be much 
better to offset the effect of the higher charges. Otherwise, its difficult to see how Mr Hs 
investments would have achieved the growth that Portal alluded to. But, I also need to keep 
in mind that Mr H was seeking to rebalance his investments with his attitude to risk. And as 
Ill go on to explain, I dont think Portal accurately assessed Mr Hs attitude to risk. That 
meant he invested in funds that were too high risk for him. 
So, for those reasons too, overall, Im not persuaded that Portals recommendation for Mr H 
to switch his existing pension funds into a SIPP was the right advice for him. And, had Portal 
more thoroughly explored his aims, I think it and Mr H would have determined hed be better 
staying in his existing pension arrangements. And, at the very least, it could have explored 
the fund switches that were available to him within his existing schemes without incurring the 
same level of fees associated with the SIPP.
Were the underlying investments suitable?
In short, as I indicated earlier, I dont think they were. As I said, Portal had a duty to make 
sure any investment advice was suited to Mr Hs attitude to risk and his experience of 
investments. 
Portal deemed Mr H to be an adventurous investor, which it said was typically someone with 
high levels of financial knowledge who keeps up to date on financial issues. They will 
usually be experienced investors who have used a range of investment products in the past 
and who may take an active approach to managing their investments. They will readily take 
gambles where they see the potential rewards as being attractive.   
Portals since argued (in response to our investigators assessment) that just because Mr H 
didnt have any investments at the time of the advice, doesnt mean hes never had 
experience of investments at all. Had there been enough evidence to support Portals 
position, I might be inclined to agree. But there isnt. And I dont agree that the evidence 
shows Mr H to be an adventurous investor. I say that because whilst he indicated he was 
comfortable investing in the stock market, he also said he had little experience of doing so. 
And as Ive already indicated, being comfortable with certain types of investments isnt the 
same as having the knowledge and experience needed to understand the risks. And Portal 
ought to have known that. 
I also think there were apparent contradictions in some of Mr Hs answers to the risk 
questionnaire he completed. For instance, he said usually it takes him a long time to make 
his mind up on financial matters and when it comes to investing. But he said he had no 
strong opinion about whether hed rather be safe than sorry. Those dont strike me as the 
kinds of responses an adventurous investor would give. But they were also at odds with 
other statements, such as Mr H being willing to take substantial financial risks to earn 
substantial returns.
And in these circumstances, I think Portal needed to do more to ensure Mr H understood the 
risks or, if necessary, agree a more appropriate risk rating for him. And had it done so, its 
possible Portal may have determined that Mr H had a more balanced approach to 
investment as his previous investments indicated. And, in itself, investing in a more balanced 
way may not have given Mr Hs investments the scope to achieve the extent of the growth 
that Portal mentioned. Portals argued that it used a reputable and industry recognised third party risk profiling 
system into which it input Mr Hs answers. But where those answers are at odds with the 
risk rating Portal is intending to use, it has a duty to check the customers attitude and 
experience relevant to the type of investments being considered. Also, whilst the regulator 
didnt set out exactly how attitude to risk should be established, it warns firms against the 
use of risk questionnaires without a robust mechanism in place to assess the answers given 
and question any conflicting answers. I cant see that Portal did any of this in Mr Hs case, so 
I dont agree that it complied with the requirements set out.
Its also argued that as Mr H was about to receive an inheritance, that increased his capacity 
for loss. Its fair to say that having access to extra funds may have given Mr H more capacity 
to make up investment losses. But its not enough to make potentially unsuitable 
investments suitable. And, that alone wouldnt, in my opinion, have altered Mr Hs attitude to 
risk. 
In any event, looking at the funds that were recommended to Mr H, I think they were largely 
unsuitable for his attitude to risk and capacity for loss. A report issued by the regulator 
around 2010 said that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers 
(usually sophisticated, high net worth investors) even when a customer was deemed eligible 
for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting their exposure to these 
investments to about 3% to 5% of their portfolio. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr H was 
the type of investor who might be deemed suitable to invest in such funds. And, contrary to 
what the regulator said, the two UCIS funds alone accounted for 55% of Mr Hs pension 
provision. Other than his state pension, that was his sole pension provision in retirement. 
And whilst not UCIS, some of the other funds that Mr H was invested in were still considered 
specialised unregulated investments that would be more suited to a much more experienced 
investor. Again, I cant see any good reason why these would have been deemed suitable 
for Mr H.
Mr Hs representative says he had a medium attitude to risk and capacity for loss. Based on 
how Mr H invested in his previous pension funds (those which made up the majority of his 
pension fund were balanced, with others being lower risk investments) and his limited 
capacity for loss, I think that is probably a more accurate assessment. And Im certainly 
persuaded that Mr H didnt have the appetite or the experience to match the types of 
investments that Portal recommended for him. So, it seems unlikely hed have fully 
understood the nature of the investments he entered into. And whilst I accept that Portal set 
out various risk warnings, that alone isnt enough to suddenly make an unsuitable 
investment become suitable. Overall, Im not persuaded that the recommendation to invest 
Mr Hs sole pension provision in this way can be reasonably justified. And I think Portal is 
responsible for any losses Mr H may have suffered.
Would Mr H have gone ahead anyway?
I thought carefully about whether Mr H would likely have gone ahead even if Portal hadnt 
advised him as it did. And I dont think he would have done. As I indicated earlier, until he 
was approached by a cold caller and introduced to Portal, theres nothing to suggest Mr H 
wasnt happy with his existing pension arrangements. Or that he was looking to do 
something different. So, I think hed have left things as they were. And, having been 
introduced to Portal, I think Mr H was entitled to rely on it to give him the right advice for his 
particular circumstances. And for all of the reasons Ive set out, I dont think Portal did give 
Mr H suitable advice to switch his pensions or in relation to the underlying investments. 
I therefore uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Fair compensationMy aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policies would have been 
worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Portal Financial Services LLP must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below:
Portal should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr H £350 compensation as the handling of this matter has clearly been a 
source of worry for him, given that he's seen his sole source of pension income 
(other than his state pension) dramatically fall and some of his investments are 
illiquid. So, Portal should recognise the impact of its unsuitable advice.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interestSIPP with T Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving Mr 
Hs 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr H provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr H's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr H's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for it to be closed and further fees 
that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set out above 
how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid assets, or this is something 
that Mr H can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr H an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital growth with a medium risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr H into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
H would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a 
clear, simple format.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP 
should pay Mr H the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 
(including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount 
set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr H the balance 
plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Portal 
Financial Services LLP. It is unlikely that Mr H can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Portal Financial Services LLP does not pay the recommended amount, then any portfolio 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mr H. This is until any future benefit that he may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Portal Financial Services 
LLP (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP may request an undertaking from Mr H that either he repays 
to Portal Financial Services LLP any amount Mr H may receive from the portfolio thereafter 
or if possible, transfers the portfolio to Portal at that point.
Mr H should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman