DRN-2881601
The complaint
Ms B complains Royal bank of Scotland plc, trading as Ulster Bank, is unfairly holding her 
liable for a loan which she did not apply for and some transactions which she says she did 
not make.
What happened
Ms B told Ulster she was on holiday in Turkey between 25th July 2018 and 2nd August 2018.  
She had taken her bank card with her in case she needed to access extra funds.  She said 
she had some foreign currency in cash on her for spending whilst away.  Her salary was due 
to be paid into the account 1st August.
Whilst she was away, she didnt need to access her account.  She said she kept her card in 
a wallet in her bag.  The cash and other documents were in an identical wallet which she 
also kept in her bag.  She also told Ulster that her PIN was written down on a piece of paper 
and kept with her debit card.
It was only when Ms B returned from holiday that she said she noticed her card and PIN 
were missing.  She said a new card had arrived in the post which she had not ordered - and 
this is when she looked for, but could not find, the old one.
Ms B alerted Ulster to the lost card on 10th August 2019 when she went into a branch to 
report it.  She was then told a loan for £19000 had been approved and paid into her account 
on 29th July and an overdraft of £2250 had also been approved.  The money had 
subsequently been spent during a series of chip and PIN transactions in Turkey.  Ms B says 
this was the first she knew about these applications and transactions and denied authorising 
any of them.
To support her submission, Ms B explained two other loans in her name had been applied 
for around the same time.  They too had been paid into her account and spent.  She said 
this was clear evidence she had been a victim of identity fraud.
Ulster did not uphold her complaint.  In its final response sent in September 2019 it said it 
was holding Ms B liable because she had been grossly negligent in keeping her card and 
PIN together.  The terms and conditions of the account allowed them to make this decision.
When Ms B brought her complaint to this service, Ulster explained it had also given her 
seven days notice to close the account.  Again, it relied on its terms and conditions in 
making this decision.  It told us the outstanding debt was now just over £21,000 and that it 
was willing to place the recovery activity on hold pending the outcome of the complaint.
Ulster re-iterated the reasons for holding Ms B liable.  It also told us that during the period 
which the disputed transactions too place, there had been several occasions where Ms Bs 
online banking was accessed  all from an IP address in Turkey.  So, it said Ms B would 
have seen the activity at the time if she was logging on.
Ms Bs submissions to this service not only disputed the transactions  but also queried how 
Ulster could have assessed a loan of £19,000 to be affordable for someone on her income.  
She challenged its affordability assessment and asked that we investigate that.  In respect of 
the two other loans taken out and paid into her account, Ms B said that both companies had 
agreed to write them off accepting she had been a victim of fraud.  She thought we should 
consider that in our decision making too.
When asked about online banking, Ms B told us it was not her logging on from abroad.  
However, she could not explain how someone else was able to obtain her secure 
information in order to do so.
Our investigator didnt think she could ask Ulster to do anymore  so the matter was passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Ms B has complained about the affordability aspect of this loan.  This issue was only 
raised once the complaint was this service.  As such, Ulster is entitled to have the 
appropriate time to conduct its own investigation.  It has asked that it be allowed to do this.  
Accordingly, my decision focuses on the disputed transactions, the loan application and the 
subsequent closure of Ms Bs account.
were the transactions authorised
The regulations which are relevant to Ms Bs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These say that if the evidence suggests its more likely than not 
that Ms B authorised these transactions, Ulster is entitled to hold her liable. The PSRs 
also say that the person to whom a card has been issued must notify the firm which 
provided the card if they become aware of its unauthorised use. This must be without 
undue delay.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Ms B 
needs to have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied the payment were authenticated from the information provided to us 
by Barclays. In other words, Ms Bs genuine card and PIN amd online banking 
details were used to make them  so I then need to decide whether Ms B also 
consented to these transactions being made.
Consent, in this context, is not the same as informed consent.  In other words, Ms B doesnt 
need to know the full extent of the transactions being carried out in order to be held liable.  If 
the payment is carried out using the agreed form and procedure, then she is deemed to 
have consented.  In Ms Bs case, the agreed form and procedure to make these payments is 
the use of the genuine card, accessing her secure online banking and entering the PIN in the 
terminal in order to execute the payment.
The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Ms B can be treated as 
acting with apparent authority when making transactions on her account.
Ive thought about what Ms B has said to Ulster  that she had her card and PIN together 
and this is how the fraudsters were able to make the transactions on her account.  But thats 
not the full story here  because a card and PIN would not have allowed someone to access Ms Bs online banking.  This information must have come from Ms B herself if indeed, she 
wasnt the one accessing it.
So, whilst it was fair for Ulster to hold Ms B liable on the basis that she was grossly 
negligent, this doesnt explain the loan application and the access to her online banking.
I think its unlikely that Ms Bs purse with the card and PIN were stolen by an unknown 
person.  Ms B said it was in her bag, which she kept on her, along with another purse which 
contained some cash.  I think its likely that if a thief was looking for something to steal, it 
would have been easier to either steal the whole bag or all its contents.
From the evidence I have seen, I think its more likely than not that Ms B has divulged her 
secure details to a third person  and this includes her online banking information.  She may 
not have known the full extent of the transactions which were going to be carried out, but for 
the purposes of the PSRs she doesnt need to in order to have consented.
It may be that Ms B was promised something in return for allowing a third party to have 
access to her banking details.  I cant be sure  and I dont need to be.  I need to make a fair 
decision on the balance of probabilities.  In other words, what I think is more likely to have 
happened than not  and I think its fair and reasonable for Ms B to be held liable for the 
transactions on her account because I think she authorised them.
the loan application 
For the same reasons as I have given above, I think its fair for Ulster to hold Ms B liable for 
the loan.  The personal details required for the application are details which Ms B would 
know  but there is no credible explanation as to how a fraudster would know.
Whilst Ms B maintains her card and PIN were stolen, no identity documents such as a 
passport were stolen.  I simply repeat my finding from earlier that I think Ms B divulged this 
information to a third party and this allowed the application to be made.
The issue of affordability is being dealt with in another complaint.
account closure
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs account allow Ulster to close her account  either with 
notice or without.  Im pleased to see Ms B was given some, albeit short, notice on this 
occasion.
In the circumstances, I cant see anything to suggest Ulster has been unfair or unreasonable 
in this regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman