DRN-3690773
The complaint
L, a company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked its account and withheld access 
to a payment of £50,000.
What happened
L had an account with HSBC. In December 2021, Ls account received a payment of 
£50,000. Following this, HSBC restricted Ls account while it carried out a review. It said that 
it needed to do this to comply with its UK statutory requirements, and that it couldnt give L a 
timescale before the review was completed. Dissatisfied, L referred the complaint to us. The 
account remains restricted.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 15 March 2023.
I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill 
explain why.
Financial businesses like HSBC are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they need to have policies and procedures in place to 
monitor customers transactions and accounts, and may need to review an account at 
any time. When it does this it doesnt need to give reasons. And its legal and 
regulatory obligations also mean it may need to restrict an account while this review 
is carried out.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC was acting in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it reviewed and restricted the account.
That said, Id expect HSBC to carry out any review in a timely manner. Here, the 
account remains restricted. Weve asked HSBC about that. It says that when it 
contacted L to discuss the account, L refused to answer its questions. Ive listened to 
the call. HSBC spoke to Ls director, saying it needed him to complete an annual 
small business review. The director asked whether this review related to the 
inhibited account. HSBC told him that this review was separate from the inhibit, which 
was being looked at by a different team  and that someone from this other team 
might be in touch in due course. Ls director explained that he had no interest in 
completing the review as he no longer wanted to bank with HSBC once he regained 
access to his funds. And given what HSBC told L during the call, I can understand 
why L may not have been interested in completing the review.
Ive therefore considered what would likely have happened had HSBC completed 
the review.
I see that immediately before HSBC restricted the account L received a payment 
into the account of £50,000. Weve asked L about that. L says it sold a leaf from a 
ninth century manuscript. Hes provided an invoice, a photograph of the document, 
and an extract from an auction catalogue relating to a previous sale of the manuscript 
in 1991. L says it was arranging the sale on behalf of one of the directors relatives 
and would keep 10% of the proceeds. It says it sold the document to a private 
collector, who arranged for the payment from an overseas bank account. L has also 
provided a copy of the bank transfer form.
Weve asked for further information about the arrangement. But L hasnt been able 
to provide this. L says that the agreement to sell the document was made verbally 
between its director and the relative. The sale was made to someone Ls director 
knew socially, and L hasnt provided further information showing how the item was 
marketed. Ls relative doesnt have a purchase invoice relating to the item. Nor was 
the item listed or valued separately on Ls relatives household contents insurance. 
Although the buyer was based overseas, L hasnt been able to provide any customs 
or export documentation or shipping information.
With all this in mind, and while I appreciate this will be disappointing to L, I cant say 
that HSBC acted unfairly here. L has limited information about this transaction and to 
Ls entitlement to these funds. I cant conclude that this would have satisfied HSBC 
had it been clearer about what it wanted.
Ive considered whether HSBC needs to do anything further to put things right. I 
appreciate that the director of L has found all this frustrating. But L is a limited 
company, legally separate from the director. I cannot award compensation for the 
impact HSBCs actions had on the director personally. And in any case, Ive found 
that HSBC was entitled to restrict and block access to the funds. It follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint and Im not minded to tell HSBC to do anything further.
I said Id consider any further comments I received by 29 March.
HSBC replied to say it had nothing further to add.
L disagrees:
It says Ive focused solely on the transaction, and has provided additional 
background information.
Ls director has been involved in the market for this type of art for many years, and 
previously ran another dealer which also banked with HSBC.
Many of the people in the market for this type of art trade from home, so L relies on a 
network of contacts through regular informal gatherings to learn what collectors are 
looking for and who can supply them. Formal marketing of items is unusual.
L sold the item to a collector of this type of art, who was known to the director for 
many years.
As the collector is an expert in this field, he didnt require an independent 
assessment of the item.
While in isolation this transaction may appear unusual, this was normal in the wider 
context of the trading history of the previous company.
When HSBC contacted L, it said it was carrying out an annual review which was not 
connected to the restrictions on the account. If HSBC had contacted L in connection 
with the restrictions, L would have been happy to answer any questions raised. Had it 
done so, it would have been able to establish that it was an established dealer in this 
kind of art, and show this was a legitimate transaction.
He suggests we should have a meeting to sort things out.
Ive therefore reviewed the complaint afresh.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, HSBC, like all financial businesses, are subject to 
a number of legal and regulatory requirements. These requirements mean that HSBC may 
need to monitor transactions to and from an account and may need to carry out a review at 
any time. Where it does this it doesnt need to give reasons, and its legal and regulatory 
obligations also mean that it may need to restrict access to the account. Im satisfied that 
HSBC was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and 
reviewed Ls account.
As Ive said, Id expect HSBC to carry out this review in a timely manner. But when HSBC 
contacted L it said this was to carry out an annual review rather than anything to do with the 
restriction on Ls account. I dont doubt that if HSBC had instead asked L for specific 
information about the transaction, L would have been willing to cooperate. Indeed, during the 
telephone conversation between L and HSBC, the director expressly told HSBC he wanted 
to discuss the restriction on his account.
But that, on its own, doesnt mean the complaint should be upheld. I need to consider what 
position L would most likely have ended up in had everything happened as it should have 
done.
Weve asked L for further information about the transaction. L was able to provide an 
invoice, and some information about the item it sold. But weve sent these to HSBC, which 
say this doesnt change its position. L hasnt been able to provide further information about 
the arrangement to sell the item  such as any agreement between L and the seller  or 
further information showing title to the item.
I recognise this will be disappointing to L. But given HSBCs legal and regulatory obligations, 
I cant say HSBC was wrong to review Ls account. I accept that HSBC might have been 
clearer when it contacted L about the information it required. But given what Ive said above, 
even if things had happened as they should have done, Im not persuaded L would have 
been able to provide satisfactory evidence to HSBC. I say this because weve asked L for 
more information and L hasnt been able to provide it.
I acknowledge what L has said about the nature of the arrangement and the market for this 
type of item more generally. In particular, L says that both the seller and the buyer are well 
known to Ls director, and so it didnt see the need to enter into formal written agreements 
with either the buyer or the seller. And it doesnt appear L carried out any due diligence 
before it entered this arrangement. I recognise that this makes it very difficult for L to satisfy 
HSBCs requirements. But that doesnt mean HSBCs requirements are wrong or unfair.
I note Ls directors comments about his previous business. The director has sent us 
invoices from 2003, 2007 and 2008 between his previous company and the same buyer. But 
this doesnt alter my conclusions: L was a new and separate company from the directors 
previous company, and in any case these earlier transactions were some time ago.
Ive considered Ls further comments. But these dont change my conclusions.
Based on everything Ive seen, while I accept that HSBC could have done more to ask L 
about this transaction, I cant conclude that its decision to withhold the funds was unfair given the limited information L has subsequently been able to provide. I dont uphold the 
complaint and Im not telling HSBC to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman