DRN-4263388
The complaint
Mr B has complained that JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a 
Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
On 20 April 2010, JLT wrote to Mr B. The letter said that JLT would advise Mr B in relation to 
an enhanced transfer value offer by the trustees of his OPS in respect of his defined 
benefits. The letter also said that the advice provided would be paid for by the company and 
Mr B was under no obligation to accept the recommendation JLT provided. Included with the 
letter was a Fact Find and Risk Assessment for completion by Mr B.
Mr B subsequently completed and signed the Fact Find document on 28 April 2020. It noted 
the below information:
He was 39, in good health and co-habiting, with two financially dependent children.
His annual income was £40,000.
Mr Bs scheme retirement age was 65, but he wanted to retire at age 60.
Mr B estimated he would need £10,000 pa in retirement.
A replacement defined contribution pension plan put in place by his employer was 
being contributed to at a rate of 4% pa, which began in 2007.
Mr Bs main residence was valued at £130,000 and he had £5,000 in cash deposits.
He had a mortgage of £70,000 and a credit card liability of £1,000.
He had a balanced Attitude To Risk (ATR)
Mr B also indicated that he wanted a cash lump sum now at the cost of sacrificing 
future benefits as he was at risk of redundancy.
A transfer value analysis (TVAS) was produced on 3 June 2010 which was based on the 
enhanced transfer value of £74,801.34 and resulted in a critical yield at age 65 of 7.2% and 
7.4% at age 60.
The critical yield based on taking the incentive as a cash lump sum was 7.8% at age 65 and
8.2% at age 60.
On 14 June 2010, JLT wrote to Mr B following receipt of the completed Fact Find. The letter 
enclosed JLTs recommendation report, dated 9 June 2010, which recommended that Mr B 
transfer his defined benefits to a Friends Provident PPP.
JLT noted that Mr B had the following objectives, which formed the basis of its reasons for
recommending the transfer:
The required investment returns were 7.4% pa if Mr B took all of the enhancement as 
cash or 6.8% per annum if Mr B invested the enhancement in an alternative pension 
arrangement within a range of investments JLT would recommend for Mr Bs 
balanced attitude to investment risk.
Transferring provided an immediate cash sum of £8,717 (less Income Tax and
National Insurance) which Mr B was keen on receiving due to redundancy.
Transferring provided the level of lump sum death benefits before retirement that Mr
B required.
Transferring provided overall flexibility and personal control over Mr Bs pension fund, 
which was important to him.
Should Mr B die before retirement, the whole of his personal pension fund at the date 
of his death would be paid to his estate or nominated beneficiaries, whereas if he 
remained in the Scheme only a return of his own contributions to the Scheme would
be paid.
If Mr B was still single when he retired he may be able to buy a higher pension with 
his fund than would be provided by the scheme as the scheme automatically 
provided a 50% spouse's pension - although this wasnt guaranteed and depended 
on annuity rates at the time and the size of Mr Bs fund.
On 26 June 2010, Mr B completed and signed Transfer Option Form A, ticking the option to 
receive a cash sum enhancement, confirming advice had been received and providing his 
account details for payment. 
Mr B signed and dated Friends Providents declarations on the same date, as well as an 
acknowledgement slip confirming he had read and understood JLTs advice.
Mr B accepted JLTs recommendation, received the cash enhancement and his pension 
funds were transferred.
Mr B subsequently complained to JLT, raising concerns the advice was unsuitable.
JLT issued a final response letter on 11 May 2023 which didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, JLT disagreed with Mr Bs complaint, saying Mr B had a balanced attitude to risk. 
JLT also said that Mr B wanted to accept the cash enhancement offered by the scheme 
trustees at the cost of sacrificing future benefits because he was being made redundant. JLT 
further asserted that the hurdle rate at the time meant that the growth which was required 
was less than would be normally expected to provide similar benefits to that of the prior 
scheme, thereby reducing the risk of making the transfer.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr B asked this service to review the matter.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The defined benefits accrued by Mr B offered a guaranteed income for life and would 
form a significant part of his total pension provision. The defined contribution plan 
had only been in place for three years by that point.Given Mr Bs low level of other assets and outstanding liabilities, he had a low 
capacity for loss. Given his overall circumstances, including his family situation, his 
priority would have been financial security.
Mr Bs self-identified balanced risk rating hadnt been assessed in depth, and given 
his lack of prior investment experience or history, he ought to have been attributed a 
risk averse or cautious risk rating.
Mr B considered himself to be at potential risk of redundancy, and so found the cash 
lump sum incentive to be appealing, but he wasnt made redundant and still works for 
the same employer. Given that Mr B would have been in a vulnerable and insecure 
position, JLT should have managed his concerns around this. JLT could in any case 
have waited to learn whether this would transpire before advising Mr B to transfer. 
Other options for Mr B achieving financial security in the short term hadnt been 
considered or discussed.
Mr B had been presented with the option whereby he could access a cash lump sum, 
with the threat of redundancy hanging over him  and so it would have been an easy 
option for him. But a conversation around other options post-redundancy should have 
been held.
Further, the advice had been given on the assumption that the cash enhancement 
would be invested in a new pension plan  not for a contingency fund in case of 
redundancy.
The advice had been given during the period when this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The discount rate was 6.9% pa for the period up to Mr Bs normal retirement date 
(65), and 6.7% to age 60. The regulators low, mid and upper band projected annual 
growth rates were 5%, 7% and 9% respectively.
This compared to a required critical yield to match the scheme benefits at 65 of 7.8% 
if the cash enhancement was taken, and 8.2% at age 60 on the same basis.
Talking this into account, in addition to the composition of assets used to determine 
the discount rate, Mr Bs attitude to risk, and his term to retirement, it was likely that 
he would receive benefits of a materially lower overall value by transferring.
Mr Bs concerns didnt displace JLTs responsibility to provide suitable advice. Mr B 
didnt know whether the intended course of action was in his best interest, and he 
was reliant upon JLT. Financial advice also wasnt simply about wish fulfilment  if a 
course of action wasnt in a clients best interest, it was incumbent upon an advising 
firm to explain this.
In terms of the death benefits, although the prospect of a lump sum might have 
seemed appealing, the priority of pension benefits was to provide retirement security 
for the individual rather than act as a kind of life assurance plan. And JLT didnt do 
enough to establish to what extent Mr B was willing to accept lower overall benefits in 
retirement for the sake of the lump sum death benefit. And the size of any lump sum post retirement would in any case depend upon the amount remaining after Mr Bs 
withdrawals.
There were also benefits associated with the defined benefit scheme which JLT 
failed to highlight. Mr B was cohabiting with two dependent children. If Mr B decided 
to marry, the spouses pension would have become relevant, but his children would 
in any case have benefitted from the dependants pensions.
As to early retirement, given that Mr B was 39 at the time of the advice, it couldnt be 
predicted with any reasonable degree of certainty as to what his future plans might 
be, or what income he might need. This made it difficult to justify transferring with so 
many years left to retirement.
Mr B was only provided with a binary option for answering the question as to whether 
he sought flexibility with his pension funds  yes or no. And presented with this, most 
retail customers would answer yes. But Mr B had no evidenced need for flexibility or 
control.
Alongside Mr Bs concerns about redundancy, JLT had set out stock motives for the 
transfer, rather than it being tailored to his actual specific objectives.
JLT may have provided risk warnings to Mr B, but this didnt mean that the transfer 
advice had been suitable. And Mr B wasnt placed in a properly informed position to 
be able to take personal responsibility for his decision to transfer.
The investigator concluded that the transfer advice had been unsuitable, and so he didnt 
proceed to consider the suitability of the subsequent investment recommendations.
The investigator recommended that JLT undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with regulators policy statement PS22/13, and as set out in the regulators handbook in 
DISP App 4. Mr B had no plans to retire at present (and indeed couldnt do so for many 
years) and so the investigator said that the calculation should be based upon an assumed 
retirement age of 65, as per the regulators usual assumptions in its guidance. 
If the redress was paid directly to Mr B, JLT could make a notional deduction for the 
(assumed basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
He also said that JLT should pay Mr B £300 in respect of the trouble and upset that the 
matter would have caused him.
Mr B accepted the investigators assessment. JLT didnt, however, saying the following in 
summary:
Mr B had confirmed that he intended to take tax free cash at retirement, and so the 
assessment should be based on the lower critical yields associated with this.
The point about capacity loss was subjective  Mr B had over 20 years to retirement, 
was earning £40,000 pa and had minimal unsecured debt. JLT considered that he 
had the ability to absorb any losses associated with stock market investment.
Mr Bs lack of investment experience didnt mean that he had no appetite for risk. 
Most individuals become exposed to investment risk at some point in their lives. Mr 
Bs balanced risk categorisation was appropriate for his personal circumstances.As confirmed by the investigator, businesses werent required to refer to discount 
rates when giving advice. JLT failed to see, therefore, why it was a useful indicator of 
the type of growth which would be achievable compared to the hurdle rate calculated 
by JLTs actuaries.
Being closer to his employer than JLT, Mr B would have had a much better idea of 
the potential changes, including potential redundancy, which were being 
implemented in the near future. It was the trustees who offered the cash 
enhancement and set a timeline for its acceptance. This was a major factor in Mr Bs 
decision making, to provide himself with a bigger cash buffer should he be made 
redundant. JLT was employed by the trustees to provide advice in respect of the 
transfer, and no other aspect of financial planning was discussed  as was made 
clear in the suitability report.
JLT concluded that the advice was suitable, met Mr Bs objectives of providing a 
cash sum to protect his family and their home, and also provided the potential for a 
bigger retirement pot at age 60. Mr B was also able to understand the risks 
associated with transferring to the PPP.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view on the matter, however, and said that, 
as agreement hadnt been reached, it would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to those set out by the investigator, 
and for broadly the same reasons.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time JLT advised Mr B were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like JLT, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients 
needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their 
investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, JLT 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Bs 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4)take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of JLTs advice to Mr B in the context of the above 
requirements and guidance.
JLTs rationale for transferringMr B wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and JLT was taking him 
through the advice process. Therefore, JLT could be confident that he would be acting upon 
its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr B and his 
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as Ive noted above.
As with the investigator, Ive noted above that the FCAs guidance was that the starting 
assumption for an assessment of Mr Bs options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, 
unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet 
specific objectives. 
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr B would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
JLT obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Bs objectives from a financial perspective.
The suitability report was issued before the FCAs revised guidance which was released in 
late October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were 
deemed achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, 
similar rates were published by this service. Ive noted that JLT has questioned the 
usefulness of such discount rates, and as noted by the investigator, businesses werent 
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers. But I do think that, as one of 
several metrics, they would nevertheless have been a useful indicator of the type of 
investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the number of years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 6.9% pa, and to age 60 this was 6.7%. And the low and mid band growth 
rates set out by the regulator were 5% and 7% respectively.
The critical yields to age 65, at 7.8%, and to age 60, at 8.2%, if the enhancement was taken 
as a cash sum, therefore comfortably exceeded both the discount (or growth) rate deemed 
achievable, and both the low and mid growth rates used by the regulator.
JLT has said that the lower critical yields which assumed that tax free cash would be taken 
at retirement should be used for comparison purposes. But according to the suitability report, 
these were 7.4% to age 65, and 7.7% to age 60  and so both still exceeded the lower and 
mid band regulators growth assumptions, and the discount rates, to those ages.
Ive noted that JLT considered 8% pa to be achievable in terms of growth, according to its in 
house actuaries. But I havent seen any justification for this being higher than the regulators 
assumed mid band growth rate, which might reasonably have been the growth rate to bear 
in mind given Mr Bs recorded balanced attitude to risk. Therefore, given the regulators 
growth assumptions and the discount rate, I think its more likely than not that the critical 
yields were unachievable, year on year, for the number of years that Mr B had until he 
reached either early or normal retirement age. And as a reminder, the critical yields set out 
above were required to just match the scheme benefits. They needed to be bettered to 
provide enhanced benefits.From a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the
scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out by the investigator, the guidance 
was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Bs best 
interests. As such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a financial 
perspective, especially given the valuable guarantees which Mr B would be relinquishing.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that JLT did 
provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as JLT will be aware, 
risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. And irrespective of the detail 
contained in a recommendation report, this also wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice 
suitable. JLT needed to be satisfied, before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing 
the guarantees and taking the investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr B.
As Ive set out above, part of JLTs reasoning for the recommended transfer was that Mr B 
required flexibility of income and control over his pension funds. There was also the threat of 
redundancy, which would have fed into Mr Bs decision making at the time. And so Ive given 
these arguments careful consideration.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other significant assets, I do 
acknowledge that Mr B may have understood the principle of risk/reward which would be 
associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there may have been discussions 
around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the same process. I also 
accept JLTs point that there will always be a first time that an individual exposes some of 
their assets to investment risk. And so I think its credible that Mr B had a balanced risk 
attitude, especially given the number of years left to retirement.
But I dont think Mr B in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of the 
control and flexibility argument, I understand this to mean that Mr B would have control 
over his pension funds, outside of the scheme, and could alter the income he withdrew from 
a flexi-drawdown arrangement. 
But as noted above, by age 65, Mr B would have accrued around 28 years worth of defined
contributions in the replacement scheme, or 23 years by age 60. Given the likely value of 
this separate pot of money on the basis of the contribution rate, which, on the basis of a 2% 
pa increase in salary and the regulators lower band growth rate, might have been in the 
region of £62,000, this could be used to plug any gaps between him starting to take flexible 
benefits early and his OPS/state pension beginning. Mr B envisaged needing £10,000 pa in 
retirement. So its possible that he could have relied on the proceeds of his defined 
contributions plan for flexible access to pension benefits, and then taken guaranteed benefits 
from the OPS as and when needed. 
Alternatively if, on the basis of an income requirement which outstripped this over the years 
from whatever age Mr B chose to retire (if early) left to age 65  although I would say that I 
dont think the actual income requirement was demonstrably known at the time of advice, or 
could in any case reasonably have been known with any certainty given his distance from 
retirement - Mr B could then have begun to take the scheme benefits early if needed.In light of this, and given that in the 15 years up to that point Mr B had been accruing defined 
benefits, I think the guarantees attached to those defined benefits would have been of 
considerable value - especially to a balanced investor who had no previous investment 
experience. And they shouldnt have been relinquished lightly in favour of flexibility which, as 
far as I can tell, was loosely defined around the possibility of early retirement  albeit the 
actual likely decision making around this was some years distant  and which, as set out 
above, could in any case likely have been achieved to some degree by accessing his 
defined contribution accrual before the scheme benefits.
Mr Bs plans, including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the 20 
intervening years between then and him reaching age 60. Any flexibility requirements could 
have been addressed nearer to, or at, the point of Mr Bs retirement  and Mr B would have 
been able to transfer out of the OPS then if needed.
As with others in his position, I think its fair to say that Mr B may have been concerned 
about his employment future  he was clearly concerned about the possibility of redundancy. 
And I appreciate that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or their own 
employment prospects.
But as set out by the investigator, and as far as I can tell, it wasnt the case that Mr B had 
been notified of impending redundancy, and indeed he remains in the same employment. 
There was also no prospect of the OPS funds being lost to the employer if he didnt transfer 
out. Further, the suitability report said that it was envisaged that the scheme would be fully 
funded, so there was no prospect at that time of the scheme entering the Pension Protection 
Fund (PPF)  but which would in any case still have retained valuable guarantees.
Mr B therefore didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out his defined benefits 
at that point. The cash enhancement of around £8,700 may have been appealing, but if this 
was a factor in Mr Bs decision making as to whether to transfer, it was the responsibility of 
JLT to consider other ways in which this might be achieved before recommending the 
transfer. And I cant see any discussion around prospective redundancy lump sum 
payments, or possibilities of accessing other assets in the short term which could be relied 
upon until Mr B found alternative employment  for example, Mr B had £60,000 equity in his 
property, along with £5,000 in savings. He also had a partner who may have been able to 
help support the family in the short term, if indeed, Mr B was made redundant.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the mooted possibility 
of early retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, 
was sufficient reason for Mr B to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
I cant see that the different manner of payment of these in the event of the transfer was an 
important consideration for Mr B.
But suffice to say that I agree with the investigators observations that accrued pension 
provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement rather than a desire to leave a 
legacy in the form of a lump sum. The recommendation needed to be given in the context of 
Mr Bs best interests rather than any lump sum legacy for his family.
So I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit by way of transferring his defined benefits 
constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for 
Mr B personally. What should JLT have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Bs decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to Mr Bs employment prospects at the time - 
and I fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr B. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr B to make any decision
about transferring his OPS benefits at this point in time and it was the responsibility of JLT to 
explain to Mr B why he didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing
valuable scheme pension guarantees at that time. As Ive said above, there was no
imminent prospect of Mr B being made redundant, or of the scheme benefits needing to 
enter the PPF. 
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr B was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him. Mr B, amongst many others in a similar position,
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment, but he was 
nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
And looking at those options, especially relating to flexibility, I dont think enough weight or 
consideration was given to the alternative means, such as the defined contribution plan, of 
achieving this.
For the reasons given above, I dont in any case think the perceived advantage of flexibility 
and control of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied 
that Mr Bs income needs could likely have been met by well-planned access to his different 
types of accrued benefits and other assets by the time he came to point when he was 
considering early retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as 
to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently compelling reasons for Mr B to 
relinquish 15 years valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age of 39.
Any concerns Mr B may have harboured about potential redundancy could have been 
potentially allayed through the exploration of other options instead of accessing the £8,700 
which would be paid as a cash enhancement, such that he appreciated the important 
guaranteed benefits which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income flexibility which 
he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future pension which 
would, other than the state pension from age 67, be entirely dependent upon investment 
returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the 
case through the defined contribution scheme.
Tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been available both from his accrued 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable 
from the defined benefit scheme, albeit in a different format from those available from the 
PPP.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished.
As Ive set out above, the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and the low/mid 
band growth rates set out by the regulator. And Id reiterate that I think it was unlikely to be 
achievable, year on year, to even simply match the scheme benefits.
Taking account of Mr Bs circumstances, including his recorded attitude to risk, his objectives 
and the guarantees which the OPS offered, my view is that JLT should have advised against 
the transfer.And I think that, had this happened, Mr B would have followed that advice and not 
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to the conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr B, nor was
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: the lack of a comprehensive 
and balanced portrayal of Mr Bs options and the future benefits available from both the OPS 
defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 
19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least two of the key benefits sought by Mr B were available without needing 
to transfer  possible early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types of 
scheme benefits which would have been available to him. 
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, and Mr Bs recorded balanced attitude 
to risk with regard to his pension funds, and matching that with the likely corresponding 
investment returns, it was unlikely, albeit I acknowledge, not impossible, that the benefits 
available from the OPS could be bettered through the transfer. 
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against 
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as set out in COBS 2.1.1R and the guidance of 
COBS 19.1.6, JLT would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that 
transferring wasnt in Mr Bs best interests.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
I consider that Mr B would most likely have remained in the OPS if suitable advice had been 
given. 
JLT Wealth Management Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Mr B hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years. And as Ive set out above, given 
the amount of time left to retirement, I dont think it could be assumed that Mr B would take 
his defined benefits before age 65, especially with the possibility, as outlined above, of 
accessing his accrued defined contributions and other assets flexibly if required. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, JLT Wealth Management Limited should:calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
his defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts JLT Wealth Management Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require JLT Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr B 
the compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I would also
recommend that JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on JLT Wealth Management 
Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on JLT Wealth Management Limited. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr B could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.As with the investigator, my view is that this matter will have caused Mr B a not 
inconsiderable amount of concern about his security in retirement. As such, I agree that JLT 
Wealth Management Limited should also pay Mr B £300 in respect of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct JLT Wealth Management Limited 
to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman