DRN-3816508
The complaint
Miss A complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money charged her a cash 
advance fee despite her cancelling the transaction to which it related.
What happened
In August 2022 a payment was made from Miss As Virgin Money account to one of her 
credit cards. This attracted a cash advance fee.
Miss A is unhappy about the fee. She says the payment was made in error and as soon as 
she realised, she cancelled the payment and paid using her debit card. 
Miss A complained to Virgin Money, but it didnt uphold her complaint. It said the fee had 
been correctly applied.
Miss A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the terms and conditions of Miss As 
account stated that transactions to pay other debt would be treated as a cash transaction 
and attract a cash advance fee. The investigator said the fee had been correctly charged.
Miss A wasnt happy with the outcome, so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Miss As account and I can see that a payment of £3,971.29 was made to a 
credit card provider on 26 August 2022. I can also see that a cash advance fee of £198.56 
was applied to the account on the same date.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account. These say that certain types of 
payment will attract a 5% fee. The types of payment are listed, and these include paying off 
other borrowing, like payments towards a loan or mortgage, or using the card to pay another 
credit card.
In Miss As case, her card was used to pay off another credit card. The terms make it clear 
that a 5% charge will apply. So, Im unable to say that the fee has been charged incorrectly.
I understand why Miss A feels that the charge is unfair. She says the payment to the credit 
card was a mistake and she did her best to correct things promptly. I have sympathy for Miss 
A and the situation she found herself in. But Im unable to say that Virgin Money applied the 
fee incorrectly or unfairly, because the fee has been applied in line with the relevant terms 
and conditions.
Virgin Money has said that it isnt prepared to refund the fee. I understand that Miss A is 
disappointed about this. But Im unable to require Virgin Money to refund the fee in 
circumstances where it hasnt made an error.
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman