DRN-1283380
The complaint
Mr P complains about TSB Bank Plc's decision to reduce the interest rate on his account.  
What happened
Mr P holds a Classic Plus account with TSB. In April 2018, many TSB customers were left 
unable to access their accounts due to issues that arose during a data migration exercise. 
To thank customers for their patience, TSB introduced a number of measures which were 
announced by its CEO during a radio interview. 
During the interview, the CEO explained that TSB was increasing the interest rate on its 
Classic Plus account from 3% to 5%. When the presenter asked how long this interest rate 
would last, the CEO said "that rate is there for good." In May 2018, TSB emailed its 
customers to confirm the increase. The email said "we promise this won't be taken away 
after a year." 
Mr P took from this that the interest on his account would be permanently fixed at 5%. So he 
was disappointed to receive an email in April 2019 giving him notice that his interest rate 
would be changing back to 3% as of July 2019. He complained to TSB, highlighting the 
commitments its CEO had made during the radio interview.  
TSB wrote to Mr P on 17 April 2019 explaining that it hadn't upheld his complaint. It said he'd 
enjoyed the 5% rate for longer than a year, and had been given plenty of notice that it would 
be changing back to 3%. Mr P received the response but felt TSB had avoided addressing 
the fact that its CEO said publicly that the 5% rate was there for good. He asked TSB to 
respond to this point and to compensate him for the inconvenience caused by its original 
response being incomplete. 
TSB sent a further response to Mr P on 4 July 2020, by which time he'd sent a number of 
chaser emails. It sent a copy of this to Mr P by email on 11 July 2020 because he hadn't 
received the postal copy. When Mr P referred the complaint to our service, he asked us to 
consider the protracted manner in which TSB had handled his complaint, and its failure to 
compensate him for this. 
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. She felt the CEO's comments 
were open to interpretation, and that TSB had met its promise not to take the 5% rate away 
after a year. And in any event, she highlighted that the account has a variable interest rate. 
She said complaint handling wasn't an activity our service can look into. Mr P didn't accept 
this, so I need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
TSB made a commercial decision to increase the interest rate on its Classic Plus account to 
5% as a 'thank you' to customers who'd remained loyal through its IT migration issues. TSB 
reviewed its position earlier this year and decided that a 5% interest rate was no longer sustainable, or in line with the rest of the industry. So it gave its customers notice that the 
interest rate would be returning to 3%. Under the terms and conditions of Mr P's account, 
that's something it was entitled to do. These terms and conditions ultimately form Mr P's 
contract with TSB, and they clearly set out that the interest is variable, meaning it can go 
down as well as up. 
Given the Classic Plus account has a variable interest rate, I can accept it was unhelpful for 
TSB to have suggested that the 5% rate was there 'for good'. TSB's subsequent email 
promising not to take it away after a year was also open-ended. It's never nice to hear that 
something like an advantageous interest rate is coming to an end. And I think the language 
used by TSB when it introduced the higher rate would have exacerbated the disappointment 
Mr P felt when it was later taken away. 
However, while I recognise that TSB's language was poorly chosen and raised Mr P's 
expectations, it was acting within the terms and conditions of his account when it reviewed 
the 5% interest rate and decided it was no longer reflective of the financial climate. So I don't 
think it would be fair for this service to require TSB to fix Mr P's interest rate at 5%.  
In deciding whether TSB should take any other action to put things right for Mr P, I've kept in 
mind that the increased rate was concessionary. And that Mr P was able to benefit from it for 
around 15 months. TSB should have been clearer about how long the 5% rate might last at 
the outset. But I think it was able to minimise the impact of this error by giving Mr P more 
than two months' notice that the rate would be returning to 3%. 
So, if Mr N had made any financial decisions based on an understanding that the 5% rate 
was permanent, I'm satisfied he had enough time to explore other options before the 
decrease came into effect. Taking everything into account, and having thought carefully 
about the impact of TSB's actions on Mr P, I don't intend to make an award of 
compensation. 
Mr P has also complained that TSB didn't, at first, respond to all of his complaint points, and 
then didn't provide a supplementary response for some weeks despite his chaser emails. 
Our investigator said we couldn't look into these issues, but I can consider them as part of 
Mr P's wider complaint about TSB's provision of a financial service. Having said that, given 
my earlier findings on the fairness of TSB's decision to vary the interest rate, I haven't seen 
fit to award compensation for TSB's handling of Mr P's subsequent complaint about that. 
And in making that decision, I've kept in mind that Mr P was free to refer his complaint to our 
service after TSB's first final response letter in April 2019 if he felt it was unacceptable.
My final decision
I don't uphold Mr P's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Mike Walker
Ombudsman