DRN-2507577
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc reversed four on-line transactions and suspended 
his on-line banking. 
What happened
In early May 2020, Mr C contacted HSBC by telephone to arrange a transfer from his 
account. He was told to make the payment via on-line banking.
Due to the amounts and transaction limits involved in making payments on-line, Mr C made 
four separate transfers. All four payments were flagged by HSBCs system for further 
security checks.
HSBC says that its procedures in these circumstances is to contact the account holder to 
verify the payments. But it says a call to Mr C was unsuccessful, so the payments were 
reversed, and a block placed on Mr Cs on-line banking.
It says it was later able to speak to Mr C who verified the payments. But HSBC says it still 
had concerns that Mr C was a potential victim of a scam, so it didnt immediately re-input the 
payments.
The payments were eventually processed a few days later. But due to the type of payments 
being made - which involved converting sterling into another currency, Mr C made a financial 
loss of £705.36. HSBC agreed to cover the financial loss Mr C had made and it also paid 
him £60 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr C wasnt happy with that and brought his complaint to this service. He says the situation 
warrants a much higher compensation payment. But our investigator didnt think HSBC 
needed to do any more. He said the financial loss had been put right and while there was 
some confusion around when Mr Cs on-line banking was reinstated, ultimately, he was 
satisfied that Mr C was aware he had access to on-line banking within a few days. So, he felt 
£60 compensation for the distress and inconvenience was fair.
But Mr C didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Ive reached the same overall conclusions 
as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I want to say that I fully understand that Mr C feels strongly about what happened 
here. So, I trust Mr C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
Under the terms and conditions, HSBC can block payments from an account and/or suspend 
account services if it believes this is necessary for security reasons, or to prevent suspected 
unauthorised or fraudulent use of an account. Mr C agreed to be bound by these terms and 
conditions when opening his account. 
So, the starting point here is that its right for HSBC to have security measures and 
procedures in place to safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. 
As to exactly what those procedures are and how they are carried out, that is a matter for 
HSBC to decide. What I need to decide here is whether it applied its procedure correctly and 
fairly. 
In doing so, Ive noted Mr Cs comments that he had already attempted to make the 
payments via telephone banking and that he had passed security to do so. And, it was only 
because HSBC suggested he do so, that he decided to make the transfers on-line. So, he 
believes HSBC was on notice that he intended to make the transfers and, therefore, that the 
transfers were genuine. 
So, I made some enquiries with HSBC about that. And it explained that fraud systems are 
automated and, even if a note had been left on Mr Cs account records about his intention to 
do the transfers on-line, this wouldnt - in itself, stop its automated system from flagging up 
the transfers made on-line. Having thought about this, I agree with what HSBC has said. So, 
I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it initially blocked the payments as a precaution. 
 
I can see HSBC called Mr C to verify the transactions, but that the initial call was 
unsuccessful. As a result, HSBC reversed the transfers and a block was placed on Mr Cs 
on-line banking. I understand that this was inconvenient for Mr C. But I dont think its an 
unreasonable approach, as HSBC cant know if a transaction is genuine if its unable to 
contact the account holder.  
But Mr C says that when he did verify the payments, he was told they would now be 
actioned, and this didnt happen. HSBC has explained that even where transactions are 
made by the genuine account holder, it has a duty to ask appropriate questions to ensure 
the account holder is not a victim of a scam. And this is what it was concerned about here. 
But its not in dispute that the payments werent sent for several days and that Mr C made a 
financial loss as a result. And HSBC has paid compensation to make good Mr Cs financial 
loss. I think that is fair.
Ive gone on to think about the distress and inconvenience caused. And I can see Mr C has 
some concerns that he was told he needed to visit a branch to reactivate his on-line banking. 
And this was suggested during the on-going coronavirus pandemic when government advice 
was for people to stay at home and only make essential trips. Hes also said not having 
access to his account was worrying at this time as he was concerned about paying for food 
and other essential items. He says the £60 compensation offered by HSBC doesnt 
sufficiently compensate for the distress and inconvenience the block on his account caused 
and the time he has spent dealing with this matter.  
And I agree that if Mr C had been required to attend the branch this may not have been 
appropriate in the circumstances. But, ultimately, he wasnt required to do so. So, I dont 
need to comment on this further. But it does seem there was some confusion around when Mr Cs on-line banking was 
restored. HSBC says it was restored as soon as the payments were verified. But Mr C says 
he wasnt aware of this until several days later. I cant be sure exactly when on-line access 
was restored, but I accept that the information HSBC gave Mr C about this wasnt as clear 
as it could have been. But, ultimately, Mr C was aware he had access within a few days  as 
he was able to make the transfers he wanted to a few days later. 
But while Mr Cs on-line banking was temporarily blocked, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
HSBC suspended Mr Cs debit card facility  it has only referred to Mr Cs on-line banking as 
being suspended. So, I also asked HSBC about this. And it has confirmed that at no time 
was Mr Cs debit card affected. So, on balance, I think Mr C had access to his account in 
that way to buy food and essential items if he needed to.
Mr C has indicated he thinks further compensation is due for the time he has spent dealing 
with HSBC about this issue. But we dont generally make awards for the time taken to raise 
a complaint or base compensation awards on an hourly rate. Rather we look at the 
complaint as a whole to decide what amount of compensation is fair. 
Overall, I do sympathise with the situation Mr C found himself in. But the nature of bank 
security checks means that they will cause some inconvenience to some customers from 
time to time. But the measures are there to protect customers accounts. And I dont think 
HSBC did anything wrong by temporarily suspending Mr Cs on-line banking after its fraud 
detection system had flagged a potential security issue. Its what I would expect the bank to 
do. 
I acknowledge that HSBC provided Mr C with some confusing information about how and 
when on-line banking could be reinstated, but HSBC has acknowledged that the situation 
was inconvenient for Mr C and it has paid him compensation of £60. I think thats fair. I 
realise its much less than Mr C would like. But, in the circumstances here, I dont think 
HSBC needs to pay any further compensation. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but Im not going to ask HSBC to do any more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that the compensation 
already paid in recognition of Mr Cs financial loss and the distress and inconvenience 
caused is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman