DRN-3699513
The complaint
Mr L complains about Debt Manages (Services) Limiteds actions when trying to recover a 
debt he says was fraudulently opened in his name.
 
What happened
In December 2019 DMS purchased a debt from another business (M). The debt originally 
came about by way of an account with a business Ill call N. 
DMS says it tried to contact Mr L and went on to refer the matter to its solicitors. DMS was 
able to speak with Mr L in early 2022 and he advised the matter had already been referred to 
the courts which had decided the account was opened fraudulently. DMS says it asked Mr L 
to provide supporting evidence to show the issue had already been decided by the courts 
and placed its collections activity on hold. 
Mr L complained and DMS sent him a final response. DMS said that to be able to deal with 
the account as fraud it needed evidence of Mr Ls residence in February 2018 when the 
account was opened. DMS also said it would need a crime reference number as well as 
evidence from the court the matter was deemed fraud. 
An investigator at this service upheld Mr Ls complaint. They didnt agree that DMS had 
harassed Mr L but thought it shouldve done more to raise the issue of fraud with either the 
previous owner of the debt (M), or the original lender (N). The investigator asked DMS to pay 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. DMS didnt agree and said it had taken 
appropriate action following Mr Ls claim the account was fraudulently opened in his name. 
As DMS asked to appeal, Mr Ls complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr L felt the level and nature of contact from DMS was harassing. But I think 
its fair to say that DMS purchased the account from M in good faith and that, from its 
perspective, there is an outstanding balance that remains due. Before Mr L spoke with it at 
the beginning of 2022, DMS was unaware of his claim the account was opened fraudulently. 
So Im satisfied if had a legitimate reason to try and speak with Mr L. 
Ive also looked at the level and nature of DMSs correspondence and contact with Mr L. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr L but I havent found evidence that supports the view DMS harassed 
him. And I think its reasonable to note collections activity was placed on hold once Mr L 
disputed the debt. 
DMS says its followed the regulations that require it to investigate the dispute by placing 
collections activity on hold and asking Mr L to provide documents and a crime reference 
number. But the investigator thought DMS shouldve done more to try and get to the bottom 
of things. I agree with the investigator. Whilst Im pleased DMS placed the account on hold, 
its essentially put the matter back into Mr Ls hands at this point. I see no reason why DMS 
couldnt have contacted M to find out whether it or N had taken court action against Mr L, or 
what the outcome was. And I see no reason why DMS couldnt have approached N directly 
to raise the issue of whether the account in question was opened fraudulently. In my view, 
these steps couldve done significantly more to help move matters along. 
Our investigator asked DMS to pay Mr L £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
They also asked DMS to contact N and raised the circumstances of the account opening 
with it on Mr Ls behalf. Ive considered the level of trouble and upset caused to Mr L and Im 
satisfied that £200 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised. I also think DMS should 
contact N on Mr Ls behalf and raise a fraud case. So Im going to proceed and uphold Mr 
Ls complaint on that basis.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Debt Managers (Services) Limited to 
settle as follows:
- Pay Mr L £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused
- Refer Mr Ls concerns that the account was fraudulently opened in his name to the 
original lender
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman