DRN-3535848
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank dealt 
with her attempts to recover money shed paid for services she was unable to use due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mrs R was due to fly abroad for a holiday to celebrate a family birthday. She wanted to visit 
some of the main tourist attractions at her destination, and bought two city passes using her 
Tesco MasterCard credit card. The passes were supplied by a third party, L, and could be 
used at any time during the 12 months following purchase. The passes were valid for three 
days after first use.
Unfortunately, after Mrs R bought the passes, her planned holiday was caught by restrictions 
imposed on her flight and at her destination due to the Covid-19 pandemic. L told Mrs R it 
wouldnt refund her but offered to extend the starting date of the passes by another year. 
Mrs R was unhappy that F didnt propose to refund her, so she turned to Tesco Bank to see 
if she could recover his money through the bank.
Tesco Bank responded to Mrs R to say that it had considered whether she had a valid claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). This has the effect that in 
certain circumstances, a credit provider can be liable for a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract claim that the borrower might have against the supplier of goods or services. Tesco 
Bank said it had also considered whether it could recover Mrs Rs payment by means of 
chargeback.
The bank took the view that in either case, Mrs Rs claim wouldnt succeed because of the 
extended availability of the passes. However, it did recognise the inconvenience Mrs R had 
experienced due to the time it took to deal with the claim, and offered her £35 in that respect. 
Mrs R didnt accept Tesco Banks offer and complained to us.
Our investigator didnt think Tesco Bank had dealt with Mrs Rs claim fairly. He 
acknowledged the difficulty of Mrs R making a successful section 75 claim, taking the view 
that it was more likely the contract had been frustrated by the pandemic rather than 
breached. The investigator didnt share Tesco Banks view that an extension of the pass 
availability addressed the fact that the passes couldnt be used during the period that Mrs R 
intended to travel. He felt that was something open to Mrs R to accept as an alternative to 
the arrangement shed contracted with L to perform, but it was clear Mrs R didnt accept it.
The investigator felt it would have been appropriate for Tesco Bank to raise a chargeback 
claim, and that its decision not to do so had to some extent prejudiced Mrs Rs position. He 
recognised that the claim was not guaranteed to be successful, so proposed compensation 
to reflect that uncertainty. He suggested that in addition to the £35 already offered, Tesco 
Bank should pay Mrs R a further £152.36 representing half the value of the passes.
Tesco Bank didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It said
Mrs R suffered no loss arising from any alleged breach of contract on Ls part. Any 
loss she incurred was due to the travel provider cancelling her holiday
The length of time Mrs R had in which to use the passes was not material to her 
decision to buy them. Mrs R bought the tickets specifically for the three days for 
which shed planned to be at her holiday destination. That hadnt been possible, for 
the reason already mentioned
It was unclear what reason the bank could have used to submit a chargeback on 
Mrs Rs behalf. Any chargeback attempt would've been robustly challenged by L, and 
MasterCard would have found in Ls favour if asked to arbitrate. It certainly wouldn't 
have determined a 50% refund
Ls role in the arrangements was to provide the passes, which it did. L doesn't 
provide the individual attractions. This would be the basis of a successful defence put 
forward by L
The investigator was unqualified to judge whether a court would likely deem a term of 
Ls contract with Mrs R to be unfair. But in any event, it didnt believe a breach of 
contract had occurred because L had provided the passes and made them available 
to use. The passes could've been accessed anytime within the year, regardless of 
what attractions were open or closed, as well being extended, quite generously, by L.
In summary, Tesco Bank said it was confident it had acted perfectly fairly, and so no refund 
was due.
The complaint has now been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R was understandably unhappy that her trip couldnt go ahead as planned. The 
circumstances of the pandemic at the time she was due to travel were such that she was 
unable to visit her destination as intended. Its also the case that for at least some part of the 
12 months following her purchase of the passes, tourist attractions that would otherwise 
have been accessible using the passes were closed or operating with significant limitations 
likely to have affected her ability to use them as planned.
Because Mrs R paid using her Tesco Bank credit card, she can in certain circumstances 
claim against Tesco Bank as she might otherwise do against L, using the connected lender 
liability provisions set out in section 75. She can also ask the bank to assist her in recovering 
money from L by means of chargeback, through the card scheme rules. The circumstances 
in which Mrs R might be able to claim under section 75 are rather more limited than are 
available via chargeback, but in the circumstances at play here I am satisfied Tesco Bank 
understood it was appropriate to consider both avenues. 
Tesco Bank is correct to say that L wasnt itself responsible for providing the attractions. But 
the stated purpose of the contract was to enable Mrs R to be permitted access to her 
selection of the listed attractions over a three-day period, without further payment, at any 
time in the 12 months from the purchase date. Any proper analysis would have to conclude 
that, as things turned out, the passes could not be used at any time in the 12 months from 
date of purchase. There were periods within those 12 months where the passes could not be 
used, such as when attractions were closed during the pandemic. And that was the period in 
which Mrs R was intending to travel and use the passes.I appreciate that in some circumstances, the unavailability of the pass for part of the 12-
month period might prove no problem. Provided the user has flexibility to travel on 
alternative dates, they might simply make use of the passes at a different time. And an 
extension to the 12-month period (while not provided for within the contract) might also be 
acceptable to some passholders.
But Mrs R was intending to travel for a specific purpose. It was a milestone family birthday, 
and that was why they were going away. The inability to travel defeated the object of the 
holiday and with it the purpose of buying the passes. She has at least an arguable case that 
because the pandemic meant the passes could not be used at any time (including when she 
wanted to use them), the contract with L was frustrated even if it wasnt breached.
That might well mean an attempt to claim under section 75  which can only be brought in 
relation to misrepresentation or a breach of contract  could not be successful, albeit not 
quite for the reasons Tesco Bank cited. But it still leaves the question of whether Tesco Bank 
did enough to assist Mrs R with her attempts to recover her money via chargeback.
Tesco Bank has expressed a high degree of confidence in its response as to the position L 
would have taken had it raised a chargeback claim, and further, what the card scheme would 
have decided if asked to arbitrate. It hasnt provided any supporting evidence for either 
position, and Im not persuaded it would be right for me in the circumstances here to share 
the banks confidence in the likely outcome of a chargeback had one been raised.
I say this because the card scheme provides for a chargeback to be raised on the grounds 
that goods or services are not as described. As Ive set out, L held out the passes as being 
available for use at any time during the 12 months following purchase, and there is clear 
evidence here that for a significant portion of that time they were not.
Further, in May 2020 (shortly before Mrs R was originally scheduled to travel), MasterCard 
issued guidance titled Dispute Resolution Management During Covid-19, which anticipated 
common scenarios that could arise from Covid-19-related disputes including where goods or 
services are not provided, or were either not as described or defective. The guidance 
focused mainly on cancelled services, but indicated that there could be a range of possible 
outcomes that would likely be fact-specific. Neither the card scheme guidance nor the 
relevant chargeback rule excludes the possibility of the circumstances in Mrs Rs case 
leading to a claim being resolved in her favour.
With this in mind, it appears that there were suitable grounds on which Tesco Bank could 
have instigated a chargeback claim on Mrs Rs behalf. And while the claim wasnt 
guaranteed to be successful, it also wasnt bound to fail. Tesco Banks decision not to submit 
the chargeback prevented Mrs R from using the scheme as a basis on which she might 
make her arguments. I dont consider the bank treated Mrs R fairly in this respect.
Whether that treatment caused Mrs R financial loss is debatable. As Ive noted, the claim 
outcome could have gone either way. In an attempt to find a mediated settlement, the 
investigator suggested Tesco Bank pay Mrs R half the amount by which she was out of 
pocket. Tesco Bank has said that it is unlikely this would be the sum arrived at had the 
matter progressed to arbitration by the card scheme, and I understand that perspective.
However, in light of Tesco Banks comments I should remind the bank that my power to 
award compensation isnt limited to provable financial loss. I can also make awards to reflect 
(among other things) distress and/or inconvenience a complainant experiences as a result of 
a firms actions. Here, I consider Tesco Banks failure to treat Mrs R fairly has caused her 
material distress, and has undoubtedly resulted in her being inconvenienced.To recognise this, I require Tesco Bank to pay her suitable compensation, which I assess at 
£200. For clarity, this amount is in addition to the £35 Tesco Bank has already offered in 
respect of its acknowledged delays, which I consider a reasonable sum in that respect. 
Further information on how we assess awards for non-financial loss can be found on our 
website at https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-for-distress-or-inconvenience
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank must pay Mrs R £235 (inclusive of any amount it has already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman