DRN-2149387
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how TSB Bank plcs has dealt with his credit card debt, after it 
incorrectly updated his address.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr K went into a TSB branch to update his address. TSB sent a letter to his 
old address and new address confirming the address had been updated. 
In March 2020, Mr K received a letter from a debt recovery company saying he owed over 
£6,000 due to a credit card debt with TSB. He paid the amount owed, but raised a complaint 
with TSB about this debt and the way TSB had recorded it on his credit file. Mr K accepted 
he owed the balance on the card as of July 2019, but he didnt agree with the charges or 
debt markers, as he said he hadnt received any communication from TSB about the debt 
since June 2019 or any notification of missed payments.
TSB investigated the complaint and determined Mr Ks address was incorrect on its systems 
 it didnt have a postcode. This meant it couldnt be sure Mr K had received any credit card 
statements from July 2019 onwards, or any correspondence it subsequently sent in relation 
to the debt. It removed the default from his credit file, as it accepted this couldnt be applied if 
it wasnt sure a Default Notice had been received by Mr K. But it didnt agree to refund the 
interest/fees or remove the late payment markers. It said Mr K stopped being eligible for the 
interest free offer when he missed a payment. And it said it contacted Mr K by telephone and 
text about the debt, so he still shouldve been aware of it without the statements.
Mr K disagreed with TSB. He said he relied on receiving the statements to make payments 
to the card. He accepted he received the texts, but he didnt agree their content prompted 
him to act. And while he didnt recall receiving the calls, he said he wouldve most likely 
blocked the number if he believed they werent genuine. So he brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She was satisfied the contact he received from 
TSB was enough to prompt Mr K to get in touch, despite it making an error with his address. 
So even without receiving a statement, he shouldve been aware of this account and that he 
hadnt made a payment. She determined the calls wouldve been from an automated dialling 
system, but she didnt think this meant Mr K was able to not act on the calls. Mr K disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that TSB shouldve had the correct address details for Mr K  and if it had 
written to the correct address, then he wouldve most likely received a credit card statement 
in July and the months that followed. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr K couldnt 
have made a payment on receipt of this statement. But, at the same time, I do also have to 
consider his responsibility in this situation.
Mr K acknowledges receiving documentation for this card in June 2019 and updating his 
address with TSB. And hes also provided us with screenshots of text messages he received 
from TSB in August and September 2019. These ask him to contact TSB as it wants to talk 
to him and see if it can help with his account.
Mr K has said that he relies on receiving the credit card statements to make a payment to 
TSB. So this is why he didnt make one from July 2019 onwards. But considering I can see 
Mr K had a letter from TSB about his credit limit increasing in July 2019  and his payment to 
the account isnt an insignificant sum, I do think he had the opportunity to realise he hadnt 
received a statement a few weeks later and so hadnt made a payment in July 2019.
In relation to the text messages, Mr K says they were generic; didnt highlight an issue for 
him to take action on; and hes highlighted the prevalence of scams and cybercrime these 
days. While I accept his point around the existence of scam texts, I cant agree that TSB 
didnt ask him to do something. The texts asked him to get in contact. And I think receiving 
these texts shouldve acted as a prompt for him.
Mr K has confirmed he held no other accounts with TSB. So I consider the texts, even if he 
was unsure of their legitimacy, shouldve prompted him to think about his genuine account 
with TSB  that he hadnt looked at or made a payment towards for over a month at that 
time. And he couldve called TSB on its general number to check on his account, if he wasnt 
comfortable calling the number in the text.
TSBs records also show it called Mr K multiple times to attempt to discuss the accounts and 
arrears with him. But that the calls were either cut off or went unanswered. I appreciate Mr K 
doesnt remember receiving any calls, but TSBs system does suggest they were made. And 
as he did receive texts to his mobile at this time, Im satisfied TSB held the correct mobile 
number for him. TSB has said the number wouldve appeared as withheld. Mr K has 
explained that if he believed the number calling was a hoax or cold call he wouldve blocked 
the number  which could also explain why he doesnt recall contact from TSB. And he 
believes any voicemails from blocked numbers wouldnt come through to him.
Mr K has said that if the call was from a person, rather an automated system then he 
wouldnt be in this position. But I cant safely say thats true. Mr K has explained his 
concerns around answering withheld numbers. And that he didnt respond to the texts as he 
didnt believe they were genuine. So, first, even if it was a person calling it seems he was 
very unlikely to answer the withheld call to discover this. And, even if he had, I cant safely 
say he wouldve engaged with the caller  considering its likely the first thing theyd have 
wanted him to do was complete security checks and so give out personal details. While 
again, I understand his concerns around fraudulent contact, by choosing to ignore the text 
contact and not engaging with the phone contact, Mr K made it very difficult for TSB to 
contact him. I acknowledge it shouldve had the correct address  but as it didnt, it relied on 
phone contact and Mr K didnt respond to this.
Overall I consider Mr K had a number of opportunities to prevent the interest and charges 
and the late payment markers without receiving the statements. But, despite the contact he 
did receive, he didnt engage with TSB on the issue. So I dont consider it would be 
appropriate for TSB to refund the fees or remove the markers, as I think it has presented an 
accurate reflection of how Mr K managed his account at that time. I understand Mr Ks 
frustrations at the default being removed, but not the late payment markers. However, the 
rules around applying a default are different to late payment markers. So TSB is able to 
remove the default but leave the late payment markers  and I cant say this action is unfair 
in this case.I recognise Mr K has made an honest mistake here, and I know it feels like he's being 
disproportionately punished for it. But the question here isn't whether Mr K has done 
something wrong, it's whether TSB has and then if (as) it has, how its tried to put things 
right. We know that it made an error with his address, but it's done what it could to rectify 
that by calling and texting Mr K  so using other methods of communication available without 
the correct address. And Mr K accepts receiving at least some of this contact. So while I 
empathise with him  he clearly pays off his creditors consistently and has done for some 
time; and has in this case done his best to avoid what he believed were scam texts and 
calls, I simply can't say that TSB has to do more in this situation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman