DRN-2941714
The complaint
Mr G complains about the value of his pension plan with ReAssure Limited (ReAssure).
What happened
Mr G said that he was made bankrupt in 1996 and accepted that the value of his pension 
policies up to that time would go to the Official Receiver. However, hed been paying into the 
policy since 1997 and wasnt happy that the residual value was correct. He questioned the 
final value as he said he had paid £20 per month since 1996, he questioned why he was 
paying an annual management charge for money which didnt belong to him, he wasnt 
happy with the tax implication of the lump sum payment.
ReAssure said the Official Receiver (OR) was entitled to the current value of the units 
bought with contributions up to the bankruptcy date which included the investment growth on 
the money to date. The Annual Management Charge (AMC) was payable irrespective of the 
bankruptcy. Tax was not recorded on the policyholder personal tax account and the payment 
was taxed on the recipient of the payment, so it didnt affect his tax record. The Official 
Receiver (OR) sent a Lifetime Allowance Declaration form signed by Mr G so they assumed 
he was aware, and he needed to discuss this with the OR.
ReAssure said it understood Mr G was unhappy with delays and service when requesting 
information, unhappy with the amount paid to the OR and the remaining policy value, the 
AMC deducted for monies which didnt belong to him and the tax implications of the lump 
sum which was paid to the OR as he would have claimed the funds under different terms. It 
said the OR was entitled to the current value of the units at the date of bankruptcy. The AMC 
was payable under the policy terms. In relation to the claim to pay out as a lump sum it was 
under the impression that Mr G had discussed with the OR as hed signed a Life Time 
Allowance declaration, so he needed to contact the OR about this. Due to the amount paid a 
small lump sum option wasnt available. It provided a breakdown of the post-bankruptcy 
units/contributions to show how the current value was achieved.
It apologised for the delay in providing information and paid £100.
The investigator didnt think that ReAssure needed to take any action. He said Mr G 
complained about the value of his interests in two personal pensions following Mr Gs 
bankruptcy in 1996. Mr G thought that hed been paying £20 per month since 1984 but the 
residual value of his post-bankruptcy benefits was only around £3,600 not £6,000 as he 
expected. Investigations showed that Mr G only paid £20 per month from April 1996 to 
November 1997 and then from August 2013. In total the around £1,000 paid in was now 
worth around 3,600 for one plan. There wasnt a dispute about the other plan. Mr G also held 
a term assurance plan. Based on what hed seen the investigator didnt think there were any 
missed payments into his personal pension plan and the value of the plan reflected the 
payments which had been evidenced. So, he wasnt going to ask ReAssure to do anything 
further.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for copy bank statements to support his position. However, his 
bank said they didnt keep records for more than 7 years and hed destroyed his paper 
records from that time. He said he never authorised any cancellation of the policy and was at 
a loss to know where the missing payments had been allocated. He was able to send a 
paper statement from ReAssure covering the period November 1997 to August 2013. 
However, the investigator said this didnt contain any policy reference. Given the time that 
had elapsed it seemed unlikely further evidence would be available, and the investigator 
remained of the view that the value of the policy reflected the benefits accrued form the 
actual payments made.
Mr G still didnt agree and said that 2013 was relatively recent. ReAssure supplied 
information showing contributions for one policy restarting in 2013. It said it received a 
completed direct debit mandate from Mr G on 4 July 2013. It followed up the request to 
reinstate the policy by requesting his NI number in July 2013 and contributions restarted in 
August 2013. The investigator said that this didnt show why payments ceased but did 
demonstrate there was a period where payments werent being made. He still thought the 
breakdown of premiums to his policy was likely to have been accurate and there werent 
missing premiums from his pension plan. So, he didnt think ReAssure made an error in 
calculating the residual sum.
Mr G later submitted a copy standing order to his pension ending 159Q from his wifes 
account singed and dated 3 April 1996 and another to Barclays life assurance which Mr G 
said were copies of the originals. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold this complaint, I need to conclude that ReAssure has made an error. To 
reach such a conclusion I need evidence to show that is the case.
I note that while initially Mr G complained about several issues, these were answered, and 
the outstanding issue relates to the residual value of his contributions to one policy which 
was funded by monthly contributions of £20, made after the date of the bankruptcy in 1996. I 
have not therefore considered the other questioned he raised.
I have seen a list supplied by ReAssure showing contributions to Mr Gs pension since April 
1996. These show a gap in contributions between 1997 and 2013. 
I note Mr G supplied a copy of a direct debit set up by his wife in 96. It is signed on 3 April 
1996 and contains the policy reference number. I have cross referred to the spreadsheet of 
contributions for the policy and this shows that monthly contributions of £20 started on 6 
April 1996 and continued until they stopped after 6 November 1997 and didnt restart until 
mid-2013. 
So, while I cannot be certain the £20 per month received into the scheme came from that 
direct debit, it seems likely it did, and the 1996 direct debit was put in place such that 
monthly contributions of £20 were made until they later stopped. Unfortunately, due to the 
length of time since then there is no information as to why the contributions stopped. Without 
any evidence I cannot simply conclude that ReAssure made a mistake and that is why the 
contributions stopped. Mr Gs wife should have had access to her bank statements, and she 
might reasonably have noticed if contributions ceased to be taken in 1997.
I also think the creation of a new direct debit in 2013 showed the parties became aware a 
new one was needed, otherwise why would Mr G have arranged a new one. If he thought a 
mistake was made at that time, he might have complained but it doesnt seem he did.I dont think the other papers provided by Mr G show that ReAssure made a mistake. I say 
that because either the amounts dont match the amount due to the pension policy and/or 
there are no reference numbers such that they can be reconciled as proof of payments to 
the pension.
I cannot explain why there was a gap in contributions between 1997 and 2013 but I have not 
seen evidence to suggest that the gap in payments was due to an error by ReAssure so I 
cannot hold them responsible for that. I also think the copy direct debits from 1996 and 2013 
support the pattern of contributions shown on the schedule of contributions provided by 
ReAssure and suggest that it is most likely correct and therefore the residual value is that 
provided to Mr G.
For those reasons I cannot uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman