DRN-1800696
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with his mortgage application. 
He asks for compensation of about £250.
What happened
Mr H applied to Barclays in April 2019. He says it took about six weeks for Barclays to issue 
a mortgage offer. Having received the mortgage offer, he agreed a completion date for his 
purchase. 
Barclays then withdrew the offer, saying it had been told there was an error with the 
surveyors report. While it re-instated the offer the next day Mr H says this was incredibly 
stressful and worrying. He said it wasnt right for Barclays to say he should take up the 
matter with the surveyors.
Our investigator said Barclays was entitled to rely on information provided by the surveyor. It 
was the surveyor that made an error, not Barclays, and Mr H could raise his concerns with 
the surveyor.
Mr H didnt agree, saying his relationship was with Barclays not with the surveyor it 
appointed. He said he had to chase Barclays over several days to re-instate the mortgage 
offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays issued a mortgage offer to Mr H in June 2019. Mr H agreed a mid-July completion 
date for his property purchase. He exchanged contracts with the seller and paid a deposit.
On 26 June 2019 Mr H was told Barclays had withdrawn the mortgage offer. It had been told 
the surveyor had made an error: it shouldnt have released its report as the documents it 
received relating to cladding on the building didnt meet its policy. 
This put Mr H in a difficult position with his purchase. He was contracted to complete his 
purchase, and didnt know if hed have the funds to do so. He might have lost his deposit. 
Mr H immediately raised his concerns with Barclays.
Barclays told Mr H on 27 June 2019 that the offer was valid. It discussed the potential risks 
of not having the documents requested by the surveyor with Mr H, who confirmed he was 
happy to proceed with his purchase. Barclays wrote to Mr Hs solicitor to confirm the 
mortgage offer was valid. Mr H was able to complete his purchase on time.
Did Barclays make an error?
Barclays appointed an independent firm of surveyors. It wasnt responsible for the work 
undertaken by the surveyors  or the error they made. I think Barclays was entitled to rely on 
the surveyors report when it issued the mortgage offer. It didnt know there was an error. 
When Barclays was told about the error, it withdrew the mortgage offer. Ive thought about 
what else Barclays could have done, when it was told there was a problem with the 
surveyors report. 
While I appreciate how stressful it was for Mr H, I think, on balance, it was right for Barclays 
to put a stop on matters until it had a better idea about what had happened and what to do. It 
most likely didnt know what Mr Hs position was  for instance if hed already exchanged 
contracts, and whether he wanted to proceed despite the surveyors concerns. Withdrawing 
the mortgage offer was a rather blunt way to put matters on hold, but Im not sure theres an 
obvious alternative that would have been less worrying for Mr H. 
Mr H says he had to chase Barclays over several days. I dont think thats fair. Barclays 
responded the next day to confirm the mortgage offer was valid. And I think it was right for 
Barclays to talk to Mr H to check he was aware of, and comfortable with the risks of 
proceeding without the documents requested by the surveyors. He would after all be living in 
the property and would bear the financial cost of putting any problems right. 
The situation was unfortunate, and Ive no doubt it was stressful for Mr H. But the error 
wasnt made by Barclays, and I think Barclays dealt with the matter fairly. It follows that I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation to Mr H. 
Barclays has given Mr H details about how to raise a complaint with the surveyors, if he 
chooses to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman