DRN-1689453
The complaint
Mr Ms unhappy that The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) is chasing him for the shortfalls 
that occurred when two of his properties were sold in possession in 2013 and 2014 
respectively.
He says because his credit file showed the debts had being marked as satisfied he didnt 
bother going bankrupt at the time, and its unfair that his credit files are now to be amended 
to show the correct information, and that hes being asked to pay the shortfalls.
What happened
Mr M had two properties that were taken into possession:
Flat 1 was taken into possession in October 2012 and was sold in June 2013. There 
was a resulting shortfall of around £95,000.
Flat 8 was taken into possession in September 2013 and was sold in April 2014. 
There was a resulting shortfall of around £42,000.
There was an error with Mr Ms credit file, as the Equifax report hes provided shows the 
debts were marked as satisfied; Flat 1 on 31 July 2013 and Flat 8 on 5 June 2014.
Mr M complained to TMB in 2019 that he was being chased for the shortfall debts when his 
credit file showed them as satisfied. TMB apologised  and offered £200 compensation - for 
the inconvenience caused by the wrong information showing on Mr Ms credit file. However, 
it confirmed Mr M did still owe the money and it had the right to request repayment of it.
Our investigator agreed that TMB that it could still request repayment of the debts and said 
the offer of £200 was fair. Mr M didnt agree and so the matters been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ms frustration, but customers do have responsibilities. TMB, and two debt 
collection agencies acting on its behalf, sent numerous letters to Mr M explaining that the 
debts were outstanding and needed to be repaid. Ill refer to the first debt collection agency 
as D1 and the second debt collection agency as D2.
Mr M has said (I quote)  they registered the Debt as satisfied on the 22/05/2014. So as far 
as i am concerned that is was the end of the matter.the fact that [D2] then tried to write to 
me, then this must have been a mistake as the debt was satisfied.
But that doesnt make sense. At no point was Mr M notified by TMB or the debt collection 
agencies that the debts had been written off, and hed ignored all attempts to contact him. 
These were substantial debts and I dont consider it reasonable that Mr M  as a home 
finance professional  should believe TMB had written the debts off without him making 
contact to check that, especially so soon after the properties had been taken into possession 
and sold.
In any event it wasnt just the debt collection agencies that contacted Mr M after the debts 
had been marked as satisfied. Mr M was sent a letter on 24 June 2014 by Bank of Scotland 
(which TMB is part of) which said:
IMPORTANT NOTICE
We are writing to you regarding your mortgage shortfall debt with Bank Of Scotland Plc 
(halifax Division).
We have withdrawn your account from [D1] and transferred it to [D2] with immediate 
effect. You should be aware that the decision to instruct them specifically relates to a 
process change within the bank.
Their contact details are:
[D2 name]
[D2 address]
[D2 phone number]
In order to minimise any disruption caused by this transfer we enclose a letter from [D2] 
which sets out how to contact them and how to make future payments towards your 
account. It is important that all queries, payments and correspondence in this matter are 
now referred directly to [D2] who will be able to assist. Any attempt to contact Bank Of 
Scotland Plc (halifax Division) regarding the above account will result in you being 
referred straight back to [D2] for them to help you directly.
Please note [D2] have been duly instructed to recover the balance outstanding of 
£95083.75 by agreeing a suitable arrangement and it is important that you contact them 
as soon as possible to agree an affordable repayment plan for this outstanding account. If 
your account is being managed by an authorised third party, for example a relative or a 
debt management company, please ensure you inform them of this change or show them 
this letter.
On the same day, a letter was sent to Mr M by D2, which said:
Outstanding amount: £95083.75
We have been instructed by Bank Of Scotland Plc (halifax Division) in relation to the 
above account. The account relates to the sale of your previously mortgaged property 
[property address]. The sale value was insufficient to cover the outstanding balance on 
the mortgage leading to a mortgage shortfall.
We understand that this account is not in dispute and that there is no valid legal reason 
for it to remain unpaid. If you believe this not to be the case you must contact us 
immediately to advise us of the details. We now request that all communications and 
payments are made directly to us.
It is very important that we receive an offer of repayment from you. We will assess your 
personal circumstances before accepting it. This is to ensure that the amount you pay is 
affordable and fair and will not have a detrimental impact on your personal finances. If you are in a position to make a lump sum payment or payments to settle the account then 
we will be happy to discuss acceptable terms which could save you substantial amount of 
money.
Please contact us on [D2s phone number] quoting [reference] within 14 days of the 
date of this letter.
If we do not hear from you in this time we will have no choice but to progress with further 
collections activity and would use this letter as evidence that we have made every effort 
to help you address this debt in a fair and affordable way.
I understand, across the two mortgage shortfalls, letters were sent to Mr M on the following 
dates from either the lender, D1 or D2, and all were correctly addressed:
30 October 2013
18 November 2013
30 December 2013
20 January 2014
7 February 2014
16 May 2014
18 June 2014
24 June 2014
15 July 2014
18 July 2014
5 August 2014
14 January 2015
TMB has acknowledged there was an error with Mr Ms credit file, as shown by the 
June 2018 Equifax report hes sent us, but TMB isnt bound by that. This debt is owed to 
TMB and it is entitled to request the repayment of it from Mr M.
Mr M has told us he would have gone bankrupt back in 2014 if hed known the debts werent 
satisfied. But as Ive already concluded I dont think it was reasonable for Mr M to assume 
the debts had been satisfied then thats not something I can consider here. 
If Mr M had made contact with TMB, D1 or D2 in response to one of the numerous letters 
theyd sent him then he would have been told the correct situation, and that was that he 
owed around £137,000 across the two mortgage shortfalls and that debts hadnt been 
written off.
Having considered everything Im satisfied TMB is allowed to pursue these shortfall debts, 
and that it isnt bound by the errors on Mr Ms credit file. Im also satisfied the £200 
compensation offered by TMB for the inconvenience caused is fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I think the offer made by The Mortgage Business in 
its final response letter was fair. I leave it to Mr M to decide if  on reflection  he now wants 
to accept that offer directly with TMB (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman