DRN-3458376
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) registered a fraud prevention 
marker against him.
Background
In October 2020, Mr A received four separate payments, totalling an amount of £1,600.00, 
into his account. £1,000.00 of these funds were immediately withdrawn and just under 
£300.00 of the remaining funds were spent via debit card transactions. 
Barclays subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for 
sending the payments to Mr As account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a 
victim of fraud. Barclays reviewed Mr As account and as a result of its investigation, it 
decided to close Mr As account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker complained that it had been applied unfairly. 
Barclays didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, Mr A referred the 
matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr As 
account in October 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr A was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Upon being questioned by our adjudicator, Mr A said that someone he used to know was 
having trouble paying his rent because he didnt have a bank account. So he asked if Mr A 
would accept a payment from his girlfriend into his account and then withdraw the funds for 
him so he could pay his rent. Mr A said he was no longer in contact with this person as hed 
changed his phone number and he didnt have anything to support what hed said.
Ive thought about what Mr A has said. But Im afraid that, on the face of things, what hes 
said doesnt appear to be particularly plausible. I cant understand why the girlfriend of the 
person Mr A said he was helping simply couldnt have paid the rent herself, or given her 
boyfriend the cash, rather than involving Mr A. 
Furthermore, Im not persuaded that the available evidence supports what Mr A has told us 
either. I say this because I would have expected the any amount for rent to have been 
withdrawn in one go if it was genuinely the reason for the funds. Yet the funds were instead 
withdrawn over a series of cash machine withdrawals, some of which well under the cash 
machine withdrawal limit, in Manchester as well as London. 
Even then the amount withdrawn from the various cash machine transactions was 
significantly less than the amount Mr A received into his account, with a proportion of the 
remaining funds used for debit card purchases. All of this calls into question whether Mr A 
could reasonably have believed he was helping a friend pay his rent, notwithstanding what 
hes said about wanting to help a brethren without family. 
Im afraid that the available evidence failing to support what Mr A has said and him being 
unable to provide anything to corroborate what, at face value, appears an implausible 
version of events means that I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant 
here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was complicit in his account receiving 
fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr As account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr A was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did and Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A  especially given what hes said about 
the effect the marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. Furthermore, Mr A might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman