DRN-3960581
The complaint
Mr A complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) valuation of his car following a 
claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr As car was declared a write-off following his car being broken into. Ageas valued Mr As 
car at £500 and, after deducting the excess, paid him £325. Mr A complained as he felt his 
car was worth more, but he also felt Ageas shouldve repaired his car and given him a 
courtesy car. Ageas responded and explained the valuation had been reviewed by their in-
house engineer, taking into account the mileage and condition of the car, and they placed a 
valuation of £500 on the car. Ageas felt the £500 represents a fair market value and didnt 
uphold the complaint.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. She thought Ageas hadnt acted unfairly in their 
valuation. Mr A disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr A will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr As car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says Ageas can decide to pay to replace a car if this is more cost effective 
than repairing it. It then defines market value as The cost of replacing the car with another 
of the same make, specification, model, age, mileage and condition as the car immediately 
before the loss or damage happened.  
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the 
likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the 
specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage.  
Ageas say there were no guide-book valuations available for Mr As car due to its age. I can 
see our service has also attempted to use the motor trade guides but the searches returned 
no results due to the age of Mr As car. So, Ive looked to see how Ageas did value Mr As 
car and whether this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive looked at Ageas car valuation report which has been prepared by an engineer. This 
notes the damage and condition of Mr As car. The engineer notes the overall condition of  
Mr As car as being poor and comments on the paintwork being heavily faded, corrosion to 
the bonnet and poor previous repairs to the rear bumper. Ageas engineer then values the 
car at £500. I can see, when Mr A complains about the valuation, Ageas do again speak with 
their engineer who maintains their original valuation is fair based on the condition of Mr As 
car. So, while Ageas werent able to obtain a valuation from the motor trade guides, I think 
they have acted fairly in getting a valuation from an engineer  and I cant see any 
information which challenges this valuation. This valuation has taken into account the cars 
make, specification, model, age, mileage and condition of the car immediately before the 
damage  and this is in line with the terms and conditions. 
I understand Mr A wanted his car repaired but the engineer has valued the repair costs at 
£1,100. And given the cars valuation is £500, I cant say it was unreasonable for Ageas to 
decide to write-off Mr As car. I think its also important to add that the terms and conditions 
allow Ageas to decide how to settle a claim. So, while I do acknowledge Mr As reasons for 
wanting his car to be repaired, the decision on how a claim should be settled rests with 
Ageas  and in the circumstances of this case, I cant say their decision was unreasonable. I 
also note Mr A wanted a courtesy car, but the terms and conditions only allow this if Mr As 
car is being repaired. Ive already mentioned why I dont think it was unreasonable for Ageas 
to not repair Mr As car so I cant say theyve acted unfairly in not providing a courtesy car. 
Also, I acknowledge the amount received by Mr A is £325 but this follows the deduction of 
the excess  which the terms and conditions make clear is the amount Mr A must pay 
towards any claim.   
I do understand Mr A will be disappointed by this and I wish to reassure him that I have 
carefully considered his points. And I do acknowledge the impact caused to him and his 
parents by not having a car as hes unable to find a suitable replacement for £325. I am 
sorry to read about the difficulties Mr A will face but Ageas have taken a fair and reasonable 
approach here to value his car. Its not the role of this service to put an exact value on a car. 
When looking into these types of complaints we check whether the insurer has made a 
reasonable offer. Its our role to make sure Ageas is giving Mr A a fair price using a fair 
approach. And based on the information provided, I think £500 is a fair price. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman