DRN-2469428
The complaint
Mrs G complained she was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Barclays Bank UK plc, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays).
What happened
Mrs G took out the PPI in July 2000, after applying for a credit card in June 2000. Barclays 
and Mrs G agreed that she took out the PPI during a phone call, and Barclays said it advised 
Mrs G to take the policy. 
The policy cost 75p per £100.00 owed. If Mrs G had successfully claimed on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it wouldve paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work. This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to say that Barclays mis-sold the 
policy, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed and asked that an ombudsman 
review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays sent in a copy of Mrs Gs credit card application form. The PPI section of the form 
had yes or no options for the applicant to say whether or not they wanted PPI  in this 
case both sections were left blank. The form was dated March 2000, although Barclays 
records show the account was opened in June of that year. 
Mrs G then took out the PPI during a phone call about a month after the credit card account 
was opened. From what we know about other Barclays phone sales around this time, Ive 
no reason to think Mrs G wasnt given a choice about taking the PPI during the call. And as 
Ive said, Mrs G had applied for the card without choosing PPI. So from what I can see, I 
think Mrs G was most likely given a choice about taking the PPI, and decided to do so.
I also note that Barclays records show that Mrs G cancelled the PPI in 2004, but the credit 
card account remained open.
Barclays advised Mrs G to take out the policy, so it had to make sure that the PPI was 
suitable for her. On balance I think it was.  
As the sale took place during a call, and there is no call recording available (which is 
unsurprising given the sale was over 20 years ago) I cant know how the adviser explained 
the PPI, or the things not covered by the policy. But I cant see that Mrs G wouldve been 
affected by any of these. 
When Mrs G first brought the complaint to us, she said she wouldve been entitled to sick 
pay from her employer of 12 months pay, and she had savings equivalent to 12 months 
salary. Our adjudicator asked for more information, and Mrs G then confirmed the correct 
position was six months full pay and then six months half pay. She also said that she had 
savings equivalent to about six months salary. Barclays sent in a transcript of a call with Mrs 
G, which showed different sick pay and savings details again. 
I completely understand that it is not easy to recall precise employment benefit and savings 
details from over 20 years ago, but as the information isnt consistent it does make me 
reluctant to place so much weight on it that it outweighs the other evidence I have. So Ive 
thought carefully about everything Mrs G has said, but overall I think she couldve found it 
difficult to meet the monthly payments on the card once her sick pay reduced or if she lost 
her job. And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
So on balance I dont think there was anything wrong with Barclays recommending the PPI. 
Ive also considered the information that Barclays mightve given Mrs G. As Ive said, I cant 
know how the adviser explained the policy, or when Mrs G mightve been given a policy 
summary or full policy document. So its possible the information about the cost and benefits 
may not have been as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, given Mrs Gs circumstances, I dont think more detailed information about the 
cost and benefits wouldve changed her decision to take the policy. It couldve provided 
useful protection if shed been unable to work. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Barclays doesnt need to refund 
everything Mrs G paid for it. But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G 
because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive concluded that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so 
Barclays Bank UK plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Barclays Bank UK plc does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman