DRN-3707811
The complaint
Ms M complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (MSFS) has declined to 
provide her with a refund for a payment she says she didnt make.
What happened
In August 2017 a payment was made on Ms Ms credit card for £310.90. The full balance of 
the card was repaid in September 2017. 
Ms M contacted MSFS in February 2022 and explained that shed been through her 
statements and that she didnt make this payment. She said this payment was to a car rental 
company and she doesnt drive.
MSFS declined to refund Ms M; it said that shed reported the transaction too late for it to be 
able to raise a chargeback. It also concluded that it didnt think the payment was fraudulent.
When Ms M complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They 
thought it was more likely than not that Ms M wouldve noticed the transaction sooner if she 
hadnt authorised it.
As Ms M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Here, there is limited evidence available given the time thats passed since the disputed 
payment in 2017. This means that I dont have access to the same technical information 
about the payment as would normally be available for recent payments. As theres no 
evidence to suggest the payment wasnt authenticated correctly, I think its most likely that it 
was. So, Ill focus the remainder of my decision on whether I think MSFS has acted fairly in 
concluding Ms M consented to the payment.
Having considered the main possible scenarios, I think MSFS has acted fairly in concluding 
Ms M made the payment or agreed to it at the time. Ill set out how Ive reached this 
conclusion below.
Ms M didnt report her card missing at the time (nor is she saying now that shes lost it) and 
only one payment was made that she doesnt recognise  this is inconsistent with an 
unknown third party making a fraudulent payment. Theres no explanation for how an 
unknown third party wouldve obtained Ms Ms card information and theres no plausible 
reason why they wouldnt make further payments if they could.
Whilst its possible someone Ms M knew made this payment without her knowledge, and I 
note what shes said she suspected happened, on balance I think its more likely than not 
that she made this payment or allowed someone else to make it. This is because:
There were only two payments made using Ms Ms credit card in August 2017; one 
for just under £85 and the other is the disputed payment for £310.90. 
The balance was repaid in full in August and September 2017, so when Ms M paid 
the balance in September 2017 of almost £400 she would have known this was for 
transactions that took place in August 2017.
Ms M has accepted it was her who repaid the balance and I note that if it hadnt been 
her then she likely wouldnt have suffered a loss in relation to this payment.
I understand Ms M says she was going through a difficult time in September 2017, 
but I think there is a large enough discrepancy in the amount due (i.e. over four times 
the amount of the only other payment) that most people would have noticed this.
Ms M had statements from the time, which would have presented a further 
opportunity to identify the payment if it wasnt one she had agreed to. 
It was around four and a half years between this payment and when Ms M raised her 
dispute  its possible that in this time shes forgotten what it was for. 
I note Ms M says she doesnt drive, but this doesnt mean that she didnt agree to pay for 
this service  for example she could have been travelling with someone else. Theres 
insufficient evidence in support of Ms Ms claim and this will have been impacted by the time 
thats passed. But I dont think it would be fair to hold MSFS responsible for that.
MSFS has told Ms M that it only has 120 days to raise a chargeback claim and that this 
window was missed. Whilst that is technically correct, I think the main reason that its acted 
fairly in not refunding this payment to Ms M is because its reasonable for it to have 
concluded that the payment was authorised.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman