DRN-2631816
The complaint
Miss O complains about the service she received from Ambant Limited after notifying them 
of a car accident. More particularly, she says she experienced problems in having her claim 
dealt with and doesnt think the advice Ambant gave was sufficiently clear to allow her to 
make an informed decision. 
Miss O is represented in this complaint, as she was in her complaint to Ambant. For clarity 
Ill generally refer to Miss O throughout this decision and such references may include 
representations made on her behalf by the representative.   
What happened
Miss O had valid motor insurance shed bought through an appointed representative (ST) of 
Ambant. The motor insurance was underwritten by a company Ill refer to as Z and there was 
legal expenses cover underwritten by a company Ill refer to as G.
Having been involved in an accident Miss O called a telephone number which was answered 
by a representative of ST. He took details of the accident from Miss O including how the 
accident occurred. Of course, Miss Os recollection of how it happened was only one side to 
the story, but the representative proceeded on that basis. During that call Miss O was given 
the following main options and a brief summary;
1. Proceed under her car insurance policy which would be the quickest way in getting 
the car repaired and Z would look to recover costs from the third-party insurer 
afterwards.
2. Use her legal cover, of which it was explained this could be quite lengthy as there 
would need to be various statements and sketches obtained before approaching the 
third-party.
3. Use a credit repair and hire agent (claims management company CMC) which 
based on what Miss O had told ST would be the quickest. 
oThis was because Miss O had outlined a version whereby the third-party 
appeared at fault and had accepted as such at the scene. However, the 
representative specifically said that this was all dependent on the third-party 
being at fault. If that changed then this option wouldnt be feasible, and 
Miss O could revert to her car insurer (Z).
The representative recommended option 3 and that ST would inform Miss Os car insurer 
that she wouldnt be using them yet. It was also confirmed there were no injuries or other 
losses at that point although the representative gave Miss O some advice about monitoring 
signs of potential injury. 
Miss O asked some questions including whether she could swap options at a later point, 
which she was told she could, and about what might happen if the car wasnt repairable, and 
the representative outlined what would happen.
Miss O confirmed shed proceed with option 3 (CMC) and the representative explained the 
next steps that her details would be passed to the appropriate agent for that option (a 
separate company) and theyd be in touch. It was after this phone call that things didnt go 
smoothly and which Miss O has other complaints to us and complained to another 
ombudsman scheme.
Our investigator explained how Ambant hadnt given Miss O enough clarity to ensure that 
she was informed the CMC was a separate business and that her car insurer wouldnt be 
involved in the claim. In addition, and importantly, that her car insurer wouldnt be 
responsible if there was any dispute with the CMC. Moreover, he didnt think Ambant had 
explained that the car insurance company wouldnt be able to look at any issues with the 
CMC should things go wrong.
In summary, the investigator thought Ambant had relayed a lot of information that wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. As there were so many options it was confusing for Miss O and 
this had caused her some trouble and upset so Ambant should pay £150 compensation. 
Ambant agreed but Miss O did not. Through her representative the main reasons were;
1. Using her own insurance was the worst option as shed have to pay an excess, lose 
no claims bonus and be without a car.
2. There was a second call with Ambant which contradicted the original advice.
3. Ambant didnt give enough information, some was contradictory and made incorrect 
claims about witness eligibility.
4. Ambant didnt defend Miss Os position.
 The complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are an alternative dispute resolution service with a remit to determine complaints quickly 
and with minimal formality. I will not be specifically addressing every single point Miss Os 
representative has raised. No disrespect is intended, and it doesnt follow that the points 
havent been considered, simply that I dont need to particularise every point in reaching an 
outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
I dont intend to interfere with Ambants acceptance of the investigators opinion and 
agreement to pay Miss O £150 compensation.
When Miss O gave first notification of the accident to Ambant and the options had been 
given, one thing Im satisfied was clear was that she wasnt making a claim under her car 
insurance policy. But I dont think that made any difference to what Miss O chose. Indeed, 
her representative has been clear that having to pay the policy excess and potentially lose 
the no claims bonus were not attractive consequences.
Im satisfied it was also clear that the option Miss O chose (CMC) was dependent on the 
third-party accepting liability. I agree aspects of the information should have been clearer 
particularly the fact that the car insurer wouldnt be involved in any disputes with the CMC 
option. But the advice was based on what Miss O had relayed that the third-party was 
responsible and had admitted as such to her.
 Miss Os representative has referred to calls subsequent to the first notification call including 
that with the CMC, which was then passed back to Ambant because the CMC refused to 
deal with Miss Os case. These calls dont detract from what Ambant said to Miss O and they 
make no difference to this complaint. Whether the CMC did anything wrong in deciding not 
to continue Miss Os credit-based hire and repair is not part of this decision. But its relevance 
is that Ambant had already informed Miss O that the CMC proceeding would be based on 
the third-party accepting liability, which they in fact did not.
When the call was referred back to Ambant the representative said it was his opinion the 
matter was a difficult one now liability was disputed. I appreciate Miss Os view on liability 
was based on what she believed happened in the accident and what she claims the other 
driver said. But the third-partys stance on liability was not to accept 100%. And the 
representative mentioned the fact of the icy conditions and that Miss Os car was on the 
other side of the road in making her manoeuvre. 
Miss Os representative is also unhappy that Ambant said her only option was to use her car 
insurer. However, the CMC was unwilling to take on Miss Os case because of icy road 
conditions and the fact that the third party was not accepting full liability. Miss O had also 
confirmed that there were no witnesses, no passengers and no CCTV or other video 
footage. In the context of what was apparent at the time Im not persuaded Ambant acted 
unfairly in referring Miss O back to her motor insurer at that time.
Other aspects at points 2, 3 and 4 above are more appropriately dealt with under the 
separate complaint that Miss O has with us about how the legal cover side of the claim was 
handled. The second call Miss O has referred to with Ambant was predominantly concerned 
with the next steps in getting the car repaired and Ambants role was under the legal cover to 
try and get back any costs Miss O may incur such as full repair costs, the total loss value or 
her policy excess. 
  
Putting things right
Ambant Limited must pay Miss O £150 compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Miss O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman