DRN-2810248
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited declined a claim on her private medical 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss C is the beneficiary of a group private medical insurance policy. She says that BUPA 
gave her an expectation that a procedure would be covered when it authorised diagnostic 
tests. Having undergone the tests, which she says were painful and meant she had to take a 
day off work, BUPA declined the procedure the consultant recommended. Ill refer to the 
treatment as IL. Miss C complained to BUPA. 
BUPA issued a final response letter. They said that theyd authorised the diagnostic tests but 
declined to cover the recommended treatment because it was experimental treatment. They 
didnt agree theyd created an expectation Miss C would be covered. Unhappy, Miss C 
complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
that BUPA had both reasonably authorised diagnostic tests and relied on an exclusion for 
experimental treatment. Miss C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint. She said that shed offered to provide BUPA with a letter from her consultant 
before the diagnostic tests were carried out which referred to the treatment options 
(including IL). Miss C asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint as she didnt think 
shed been treated fairly. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions exclude experimental treatment. The relevant policy term 
says: 
We do not pay for treatment or procedures which, in our reasonable opinion, are 
experimental or unproved based on established medical practice in the United 
Kingdom, such as drugs outside the terms of their licence or procedures which have 
not been satisfactorily reviewed by NICE (National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence).
Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Did BUPA raise expectations that theyd cover IL treatment?
Miss C says that she offered to provide a copy of a report from her consultant during a call 
but that BUPA declined to look at it. She says, in summary, that had they looked at it theyd 
have known that the only outcome of the tests would have been IL treatment. 
I dont agree. The report from the consultant says that the diagnostic tests were 
recommended to confirm the clinical diagnosis and draw up a long term care plan, including 
the possibility of seeing a geneticist. The consultant goes on to say that the he will provide 
further advice to Miss C following the results of the scan on the best options going forward 
(he lists the options as conservative only, IL treatment or other methods). That suggests it is 
most likely that the course of treatment hadnt been decided at that point in time and was 
dependent on the results of the diagnostic tests. I dont think IL was the only possible 
outcome at that point in time or that if BUPA had seen this letter it would have led them to 
decline a diagnostic test, particularly as the diagnosis wasnt confirmed. I also note that 
Miss C has since gone ahead with a different form of treatment which further suggests that 
other options were available.   
Ive not seen any other persuasive evidence that BUPA raised Miss Cs expectations that IL 
would be covered or that this alone led to her undergoing the diagnostic tests. At that point in 
time there wasnt a firm diagnosis and the consultant referred to other possible treatment 
options. So, Im satisfied that BUPA handled Miss Cs claim for diagnostic testing fairly and 
that they didnt raise an expectation that IL would be covered.  
Was it unreasonable for BUPA to decline the claim for IL? 
BUPA doesnt cover experimental treatment and it says that IL falls within the exclusion in 
the policy terms and conditions. 
BUPA says that IL is a relatively new treatment and that there isnt much robust supporting 
evidence for the procedure. Ive taken into account the information available via the NHS 
and NICE which supports BUPAs position that this isnt a treatment thats considered 
established medical practice in the UK. So, based on the evidence available to me, I dont 
think it was unreasonable that BUPA relied on the exclusion and declined the claim. 
BUPA was willing to pay for other treatments which werent experimental, which Miss C has 
since been covered for. Taking all of the above into account I dont think BUPA has treated 
Miss C unfairly. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman