DRN-3374663
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as K has complained that QBE UK Limited unfairly avoided its 
motor trade insurance policy.
 
Mr H, a director of K, has brought the complaint on Ks behalf. K is represented in this 
complaint but, for ease of reading, I will refer to all actions and comments as being those of 
K. 
What happened
In September 2017 K took out a policy with QBE, through a broker. The policy renewed in 
September 2018 and in July 2019 K made a claim for flood damage. QBE appointed a loss 
adjuster to look into the claim. In September 2019 QBE sent K its renewal invitation.
Following the renewal invitation, and while QBE were still looking into the first claim, K made 
a second claim following a car accident on 8 September 2019.
 
On 19 September 2019, QBE said they would be avoiding (which means the policies would 
be cancelled from the start as though they never existed) Ks policies for 2017 and 2018 and 
keeping the premium. QBE said that K hadnt disclosed information about a directors (the 
director) previous companies being dissolved or that it was acting as an unauthorised 
accident management company. QBE pointed to their terms and conditions which said that if 
a policyholder deliberately doesnt make a fair presentation of the risk, QBE can avoid the 
policy and keep the premium. 
K complained to QBE. It said it had disclosed the information about its directors previous 
companies and it wasnt involved in accident management. It said it didnt carry out any 
regulated accident management activities and instead directed customers to other 
companies who carried out these activities. 
QBE said K advertised itself as providing accident management services, it had confirmed 
that it works for a number of accident management companies, and it also makes 
recommendations to customers in relation to accident management. They said that Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance listed some regulated accident management activities, 
which included seeking out referrals and the identification of claims. QBE said these 
activities were in line with those advertised by K and they maintained their position to avoid 
Ks policy. 
Unhappy with QBEs response, K brought its complaint to our service. K said it had 
disclosed the information about the directors previous business and it wasnt involved in 
accident management  it said that it undertook work for accident management companies 
as a repairer. K also said that QBE had indicated prior to the renewal that they were going to 
offer to renew Ks policy in September 2019 despite being uncomfortable with the risk. K 
said that as the second claim happened after this comment, QBE were acting in a retaliatory 
manner as K hadnt gone ahead with the renewal. 
QBE said they wouldnt have sold K the policy in 2017 or 2018 if theyd known K was 
involved in accident management activities.
Our investigator looked into Ks complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. While he 
thought K had made a fair presentation of the risk in relation to its directors previous 
companies, he thought QBE had acted reasonably in deciding that K hadnt made a fair 
presentation of the risk about its involvement with accident management. Therefore, he 
thought QBE was entitled to avoid the policies and decline the claims. He noted that QBE 
had returned some of the premium and therefore thought they had treated the lack of fair 
presentation as neither deliberate nor reckless. 
K provided a detailed response and asked the investigator to reconsider. In summary, it said 
QBE had changed its reasons for not paying the claims and thought the policy was avoided 
because it had decided not to renew the policy in 2019. K maintained that it wasnt involved 
in accident management activities and only carried out repairs on behalf of accident 
management companies. K said its social media advert states that it can forward customers 
details to an accident management company which therefore means that K isnt an accident 
management company itself. K said QBE hadnt substantiated what was meant by accident 
management and had only provided snippets of definitions from an online search engine. 
Our investigator said that the claims hadnt been paid as QBE had avoided the policy and 
therefore he wasnt going to comment on the investigation into the claims themselves. He 
also said that he hadnt seen anything from either K or QBE to indicate that QBE had 
declined either claim prior to issuing their letter of 19 September avoiding the policy. Our 
investigator said that, as K hadnt agreed, its complaint would be passed to an ombudsman 
to decide. Our investigator also clarified that QBE had treated the qualifying breach as being 
deliberate or reckless but he that this was fair and reasonable given the information 
contained in Ks online information. 
In response, K reiterated that it doesnt act as an accident management company, supported 
by it not being regulated for accident management activities. K said QBE shouldnt be able to 
rely on any breach of fair presentation in relation to accident management because they had 
originally avoided the policy due to non-disclosure of information about the directors 
previous company. K also said the ombudsman shouldnt give consideration to any online 
adverts provided by QBE to support their position because these adverts werent considered 
by QBE at the time of avoiding the policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
K has made a number of detailed points. While I have considered them all, Im not going to 
comment on each point in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues in this complaint. 
Under the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act) K had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk 
when buying and renewing its policy. And for QBE to take any action they need to show that 
K didnt do that and that it made whats known as a qualifying breach. To demonstrate a 
qualifying breach, QBE would need to show that if K had made a fair presentation of the risk 
they would have either not offered K the policy or would have done so on different terms.
It doesnt seem to still be in dispute that K disclosed information about its directors previous 
companies. Therefore, Im not going to comment on this any further and will focus on QBEs 
decision to avoid Ks policy due to K being involved with accident management. Ive seen a copy of the proposal form which was completed by K or its agent in 2017. This 
says:
Are you involved in or undertaking any of the following?
Underneath this it says, Accident management?. The box for no is ticked. 
K said it doesnt carry out any regulated accident management activities and therefore it 
didnt need to answer yes to this question. Its not for me to decide if K carries out any 
regulated accident management activities as I dont think it matters to the outcome of this 
complaint. Accident management isnt defined in the policy and the question doesnt ask 
about regulated accident management activities. So I think its clear from the question that 
QBE wants to know if a policyholder is involved in or undertaking accident management and 
not just regulated activities. 
Ive seen a screenshot from Ks website. This says that if a customer calls K first, K will:
Arrange vehicle recovery to our Vehicle Repair Centre.
Arrange repair estimates and approval.
Arrange a replacement car for the duration of repairs.
Assist in liaising with the insurance companies involved.
Provide you with legal support for compensation queries and uninsured losses
Ensure your vehicle is repaired back to manufacturers standards with only genuine 
parts being used.
Ive also seen a social media post from K which says:
If youre involved in a road traffic accident that wasnt your fault, we can ensure 
that you do not have to pay any excess fees and that your (NCB) no claims 
bonus will not be affected. You will receive a like for like replacement vehicle 
whilst your own is off the road and is being repaired. You will also retain your 
(NCB) no claims bonus and, best of all, you wont have to pay a penny!
Ive noted Ks point that it doesnt think I should consider this material; however, I disagree 
as QBE provided the adverts as part of their submission to our service.
In my view the services being advertised by K are consistent with what would be considered 
under the ordinary meaning of accident management. K said it doesnt carry out these 
activities itself, but I think it should have answered yes when asked if it was involved or 
undertaking accident management as its website and social media clearly indicates that it is 
involved in accident management. 
QBE have provided an email from an underwriting manager to confirm that, if K had 
answered yes when asked if it was involved or undertaking accident management, they 
wouldnt have offered the policy. Im persuaded by this as it is from an underwriting 
manager. Therefore, I think K made a qualifying breach when answering no to the question.
A qualifying breach is either deliberate or reckless or neither deliberate nor reckless. QBE 
have treated the breach as deliberate or reckless and Im not going to interfere with their 
decision given the adverts on Ks website and social media. 
The renewal document in 2018 said K needed to let K know all material facts. However, I 
havent seen anything to indicate that K corrected the information provided in the proposal form at renewal. Therefore, Im satisfied that K made a qualifying breach both when buying 
the policy in 2017 and when renewing it in 2018.  
Under the Act, the remedy for a qualifying breach that is deliberate or reckless is to avoid the
policy and keep the premium. This is what QBE have done so Im not going to interfere with
their decision. It follows that I think QBE were entitled to decline Ks claims. 
K has referred to an internal email from QBE which mentions having avoided the policies of 
a number of other policyholders. While I can understand why K thinks this means QBE were 
being flippant, I think the email was intended to demonstrate that QBE considered that they 
had reasonable grounds for avoiding the policy. 
I have also considered Ks point that QBE were acting in a retaliatory manner as the second 
claim happened after the renewal had been invited but K hadnt accepted. However, it was 
following the claim that QBE found evidence which indicated that K hadnt made a fair 
presentation of the risk, and as a result of this they decided to avoid the policy. I think the 
additional information was discovered as part of the claims validation process following the 
second claim and not because QBE were being retaliatory.  
K has also said that QBE changed its reasons for why the claims were declined. However, I 
havent seen anything to show that QBE declined either of Ks claims before their letter of  
19 September which let K know that QBE were avoiding the policy. QBE explained in this 
letter that this was due to K not making a fair presentation of the risk in relation to both 
information about the directors previous company and being involved in accident 
management. The fact that it was subsequently accepted that K did provide information 
about the directors previous company doesnt change the validity of the second point. 
Therefore, I think that QBEs final position is fair, that it avoided Ks policy and refused to pay 
its claims on the basis that K didnt make a fair presentation of the risk about being involved 
in accident management. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome K was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman