DRN-4284185
The complaint
Mr M complains that the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) offered to 
settle his motor insurance claim is too low. 
What happened
In May 2023, Mr Ms car was stolen from his driveway. He then made a claim on his motor 
insurance policy. 
Admiral said that to settle the claim, it would pay the market value of the vehicle. It consulted 
two motor trade valuation guides and said it thought Mr Ms car was worth £6,235 on the day 
it was stolen. However, as the car did not have an MOT at the point of theft, Admiral 
deducted 10% from the valuation. 
Mr M did not accept Admirals valuation. He thought Admiral had based its valuation on his 
car being a diesel car with manual transmission when it was actually a petrol car with 
automatic transmission. Mr M accepted that the vehicle had no MOT when it was stolen but 
said this was a genuine oversight on his part. He didnt think 10% should have been 
deducted from the valuation. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint. In doing so, he consulted four valuation 
guides and obtained the following valuation results: Guide 1 - £5,850; Guide 2 - £6,880; 
Guide 3 - £6,300; and Guide 4 - £6,664. After considering that information, our investigator 
thought Admirals offer was fair. He also thought it was fair for Admiral to make a deduction 
from the settlement because Mr Ms car did not have a valid MOT. 
Mr M did not accept that view. He reiterated his view that Admirals valuation was based on 
a manual diesel car and not an automatic petrol car. As Mr M did not accept our 
investigators view, the matter has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I havent upheld his 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms motor insurance policy say that where his vehicle has 
been stolen, Admiral will settle the claim by paying the market value of the car as at the day 
it was stolen. Market value is defined in the terms and conditions as the cost of replacing Mr 
Ms car with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market 
prices. The terms say that the market value will be based on research from industry 
recognised motor trade guides. 
Assessing the value of a car isnt an exact science. Like most insurers, this service often 
finds valuation guides persuasive. Thats because the valuations are based on nationwide 
research. As a service, we generally consider the valuation guides to be helpful in showing 
likely selling prices at the month of loss. 
In this case, Admiral consulted two valuation guides to decide on its valuation  but it was 
unable to give us full evidence of its valuations. So, our investigator then looked at four 
valuation guides to see if Admirals valuation was fair. I know Mr M was concerned that the 
wrong specification for his car had been used. But in considering the valuations obtained by 
our investigator, I can see that the correct registration, make, model, mileage and date of 
loss were entered. Im satisfied that the valuations did take account of Mr Ms vehicle being a 
petrol car and automatic transmission. 
The valuations obtained by our investigator ranged from £5,850 to £6,880. Admiral said it 
thought Mr Ms car was worth £6,235 on the day it was stolen. That amount is within the 
range of valuations obtained by our investigator. It follows that Im satisfied that Admirals 
valuation is fair. 
I know that Mr M is not happy that Admiral deducted 10% from the settlement because his 
car did not have a valid MOT. Mr M told us that this was an oversight on his part and that his 
garage had not texted him a reminder. I have no reason to doubt what Mr M said on this 
point and I accept that the reason the car had no MOT may well have been an unintended 
omission. However, I think it would generally be harder to buy a car without a valid MOT and 
that probably would have affected the value of Mr Ms vehicle. With that in mind, I think it 
was fair for Admiral to deduct 10% from its valuation. 
I know he will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons Ive set out above, my 
decision is that Admirals offer to settle Mr Ms motor insurance claim is fair. I dont need to 
tell Admiral to take any further action in this case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman