DRN-2260447
The complaint
Ms K complains Clydesdale bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, will not reimburse money 
which she lost as a result of a scam.
Virgin says Ms K is liable for the payment because she authorised it.
What happened
Ms K complained to Virgin about a payment she made when she was selling her phone.  
She says she received a fraudulent email telling her the payment had been received into her 
PayPal account and that the phone was ready to be shipped.
She then received an email from the buyer stating he needed to pay a fee of £150 as the 
phone was being sent abroad.  He asked if Ms K could make this payment into a 
MoneyGram account and he would reimburse her with an additional payment of £50 for the 
inconvenience.
Ms K says she made a money transfer from her Virgin account into the MoneyGram account 
as requested  and only became suspicious about the emails when she was asked to pay 
another £300.  So, she complained to Virgin and said it should refund the £150 plus the cash 
handling fee of £3.99.
When Ms K spoke to Virgin, she said she had already spoken to MoneyGram who had 
refused to refund the money as it was sent by Ms K to the registered account holder.
Virgin did not uphold her complaint.  It said it had acted on Ms Ks proper instructions to 
make the transfer.  In the circumstances, the payment was authorised and she was liable.
Our investigator did not think he could ask Virgin to do anymore and he explained this to Ms 
K in some detail.  But Ms K said she did not agree with his view.  She didnt say why.
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the investigator is right here  and I dont think I can fairly as Virgin to refund this 
money to Ms K either.  As Ms K didnt say which parts of the investigators view she was 
challenging or why, I have dealt with what I consider to be pertinent in this decision.
Generally speaking, a bank is expected to act upon the instructions of its customer  as 
Virgin did here.  I dont think it is in dispute that Ms K made this payment herself  just that 
she did so as a result of a third-party scam.  So, on the basis that the payment was 
authorised, Ive gone on to consider whether I think Virgin could have done more to stop the 
payment or reimburse it once it was made.
In terms of identifying the payment as fraudulent, I dont think Virgin was on notice because I 
have seen nothing unusual in this activity on Ms Ks account.  The payment was not a large 
amount compared to the usual activity and there had been nothing to suggest there were 
any warning signs which Virgin had disregarded.  So, I cant see Virgin has done anything 
wrong by following Ms Ks instructions and allowing the payment to be made.
On that basis, I have considered whether Virgin should have done more once alerted to the 
payment and the scam by Ms K.  
Good industry practice suggests Virgin should carry out a chargeback request for the 
payment.  Its not an obligation placed on Virgin, but we would expect it to have made the 
request in line with industry practice.
On this occasion, Virgin didnt make the request  but I dont think I can fairly say that was 
unreasonable.  When Ms K first spoke to Virgin she said she had already spoken to 
MoneyGram and it had refused to make the refund as the money had been paid out to the 
intended recipient.  Had Virgin made a chargeback request, I think its likely this would have 
failed because the response from MoneyGram would have been no different.  
So, I am afraid on this occasion, I cant see Virgin has done anything wrong in how it dealt 
with Ms Ks complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman