DRN-3669442
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited automatically renewed his annual 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 23 September 2019, Mr C took out an annual travel insurance policy online, to provide 
cover between 24 September 2019 and 23 September 2022.
Mr C learned that Admiral had automatically renewed his 2019 policy in September 2020 
and had renewed the policy again in December 2021. He was unhappy with the policy auto 
renewals and he complained to Admiral.
Admiral refunded Mr Cs 2021-22 renewal premium, as hed got in touch with it ahead of the 
expiry of the policy cooling-off period. However, it didnt agree to refund the premium of 
£58.54 which Mr C had paid for the 2020-21 policy. Thats because it said Mr Cs policy had 
been set-up to auto-renew. It said the policy terms made it clear that an annual policy would 
auto-renew unless a policyholder got in touch to let Admiral know they didnt want to renew 
it. And as the policy had expired, Admiral considered that Mr C had had the benefit of cover 
for that year.
Mr C remained unhappy with Admirals position and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy wording 
made it clear that Admiral auto-renews annual policies unless a policyholder tells it 
otherwise. And she noted that Admiral had sent a renewal schedule to Mr C shortly before 
his 2019-20 policy was due to end, which set out the new renewal premium and level of 
cover for the following policy year. However, Mr C hadnt contacted Admiral to let it know 
that he didnt want the new policy. She was also satisfied that as Admiral had been covering 
Mr C between 24 September 2020 and 23 December 2021, it didnt need to refund the 
premium hed paid for that year.
Mr C disagreed. He felt there was a substantial principle at stake and that there was an 
industry-wide abuse of consumers which needed to be addressed. He also felt that the 
investigator had made a number of assumptions  that hed seen the relevant policy term, 
read it and understood it and that hed received the renewal information and read it. He 
asked how a business could take a policyholders money without confirming that they still 
agreed with the term and had received renewal information.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, I think Admiral has treated him fairly and 
Ill explain why.
First, its important I make clear that as the investigator explained, were not the industry 
regulator. We have no power to regulate the financial businesses we cover, nor to direct 
them to change their processes or procedures. Our role is to investigate individual 
complaints made by consumers to decide whether, in the specific circumstances of that 
particular complaint, a financial business has done something wrong which it needs to put 
right. While I appreciate Mr C feels strongly that auto-renewal is a systemic insurance issue, 
this isnt something which I can reasonably consider. My role here is to decide whether, on 
the facts of this case, Admiral treated Mr C fairly. Its open to Mr C to raise wider industry 
concerns with the regulator should he wish to do so.
Secondly, Mr C originally also complained to Admiral about the auto-renewal which took 
place in December 2021. However, Admiral cancelled the 2021-22 policy. And as the 
cancellation fell within the policy cooling-off period, its refunded Mr Cs premium for that 
year. So I dont think I need to consider that particular complaint point further. Instead, Ill 
focus on the 2020 auto-renewal.
It's common ground that in September 2019, Mr C took out an annual policy online. Admiral 
says that at the point of sale, the policy was set-up to auto-renew. Following the policy sale, 
Mr C was sent a policy schedule and he was provided with a copy of the applicable contract 
terms and conditions. So Ive turned to consider the terms of the 2019 policy to see what 
Admiral says about annual contract renewal. This term is set out in the contract General 
Conditions, on page 17, and states:
Automatic renewal  annual multi-trip policies only
We will write to you before your policy ends to confirm your renewal premium and policy 
terms. We may offer to renew it for you automatically using the payment details you have 
already given. If you decide not to renew your policy, you must call us before your renewal 
date to let us know.
Ive also considered the Insurance Product Information Document Admiral has provided to 
us. This sets out an at a glance summary of the main benefits, exclusions and terms of the 
policy. And this says that Admiral may auto-renew policies and will write to policyholders 
ahead of the renewal date - and before taking payment - to confirm renewal terms. 
In my view, Admiral has clearly set out in the policy documentation that it will write to annual 
policy policyholders ahead of their policy expiry date to confirm their renewal premium and 
policy terms. Im also satisfied that the term makes it clear that if a policyholder doesnt want 
to auto-renew the policy, theyll need to let Admiral know ahead of their renewal date. I 
appreciate Mr C considers that assumptions have been made as to whether he saw and 
understood the term. But I think it was clearly drafted and set out in the General Conditions 
which apply to the whole policy, as well as being set out in summary in the Insurance 
Product Information Document.
Ive next considered whether Admiral did write to Mr C ahead of the expiry of the 2019-20 
policy to confirm the renewal price and policy terms. Its provided us with a copy of a Policy 
Issue letter, which is dated 17 September 2020 and was addressed to Mr C at the address 
we hold on our file.  That letter states that its accompanied by a policy schedule and the 
policy wording. The letter clearly states that the renewal premium for the following year is 
£58.54. And it directs policyholders to call Admiral if they have any queries. The renewal 
schedule sets out the dates of the cover and a summary of the cover Admiral was providing 
during that policy year.It isnt clear whether the letter and renewal documentation were posted to Mr C or emailed to 
him. In either event though, I think its more likely than not that the information was sent to 
Mr C. Ive noted that the renewal information was dated 17 September 2020, which was a 
week before cover under the 2019-20 policy was due to end. So Im satisfied that Admiral 
provided Mr C with the renewal information ahead of policy expiry, in line with its policy 
terms. And in my view, the information was sufficiently clear to let Mr C know that Admiral 
was intending to renew his existing policy; when that policy would start and end; the broad 
cover levels; what it would cost and what to do if he had any queries. As Mr C didnt get in 
touch with Admiral ahead of renewal, I think it was fair for it to automatically renew his policy 
on 24 September 2020.
I appreciate Mr C feels strongly about the auto-renewal of his policy and why he believes 
Admiral should also refund the 2020-21 premium, in addition to the 2021-22 policy. But it 
seems to me that Admiral was covering the risk of Mr C making a claim on that particular 
policy between 24 September 2020 and 23 December 2021, for the full policy term. And its 
a general principle of insurance law that if an insurer has started to bear risk, the premium a 
policyholders paid isnt returnable. Overall then, I dont find there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could direct Admiral to refund Mr Cs 2020-21 premium of £58.54.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman