DRN-2898028
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank should have 
monitored his account more closely to prevent him from entering a cycle of debt due to 
gambling transactions.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues and is 
known to both Mr P and Yorkshire Bank, so there is no need for me to repeat them again 
here in any great detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its relevant to the 
issues I need to deal with. 
Mr P obtained a credit card with Yorkshire Bank in October 2019. He was given a credit limit 
of £6,200. However, Mr P began using his card for gambling transactions and maxed out the 
credit limit. As such Mr P felt like he was back to square one and this was affecting his 
health.
Mr P has said that Yorkshire Bank did contact him when his credit limit reached £1,000 to 
enquire about the gambling transaction and asked Mr P to confirm these transactions were 
completed by him. Mr P confirmed the transactions were genuine and explained that he 
would pay off the balance, but Mr P feels Yorkshire Bank should have blocked his card at 
that point or reduced his credit limit to £1,000 to prevent him gambling further.
Mr P feels Yorkshire Bank shouldve contacted him as soon as it saw the gambling 
transactions on his card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold this complaint and for broadly the same reasons as 
the investigator. I want to firstly offer my condolences to Mr P for the loss of his son. And Id 
like to assure him that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand the last couple of years 
must have been difficult for him and I dont want to add to his distress. But as Ill go on to 
explain, I dont think Yorkshire Bank have acted unfairly. 
I note that Mr Ps complaint is centred on the fact Yorkshire Bank didnt intervene when it 
realised Mr P was using the card for gambling transactions. So, the issue for me to consider 
is whether Yorkshire Bank acted unfairly by authorising the transactions.
The first important point to make is, in March 2018 the Gambling Commission published its 
review of online gambling which led, in April 2020 to it banning the use of credit cards for 
gambling. Prior to that, the use of credit card for gambling transactions was an acceptable 
form of payment.
 
Having reviewed Mr Ps credit card agreement I can see that it outlines the costs that were 
associated with any gambling transactions. As such I am satisfied that at that time, it was in 
line with the terms of the credit card account for Mr P to use his card for gambling 
transactions. It is not for a card provider to say or restrict what a customer is able to use their 
card for. Therefore, Yorkshire Bank wont impose restrictions for genuine transactions unless 
the transactions are considered fraudulent. I do appreciate that matters have now changed 
regarding the issue of gambling using credit cards, but I am looking at the position as it was 
in 2019, and I cant say that Yorkshire Bank did anything wrong by allowing Mr P to make 
gambling transaction using his credit card.
Yorkshire Bank does have a responsibility to ensure it treats a consumer positively and 
sympathetically if it becomes aware the consumer is experiencing difficulties. I note that in 
November 2019, Mr P failed to make his minimum payment on time, so Mr P received a late 
fee of £12. In December 2019 Mr P received another letter outlining he had failed to make 
the minimum payment. In this letter it also explained that Mr P could contact the bank if he 
couldnt make the minimum payment or if he had issues with his account. The same issue 
occurred in January 2020, prior to Mr P raising a complaint with Yorkshire bank. I cant see 
that prior to Mr P complaining to Yorkshire Bank, he contacted it to discuss his gambling 
addiction, or the fact he was experiencing financial hardship because of it. And I cant see 
any evidence to suggest Mr P requested for a gambling block to be put on his account.  
Therefore, on balance, I am not satisfied that Yorkshire Bank was aware Mr P had a 
gambling problem. As mentioned above, it isnt Yorkshire Banks responsibility to tell an 
account holder what they can and cant spend money on, or to monitor transactions and 
make unsolicited recommendations about how money is being spent. So, although Mr Ps 
statements show gambling transactions, I dont think that alone is enough to say that it 
needed to do more or shouldve limited Mr Ps spending. I appreciate that Mr P believes that 
when Yorkshire Bank contacted him to check if the gambling transactions were genuine it 
should have limited his account at that time, but Mr P didnt ask Yorkshire bank to do this or 
notify it that he had a gambling problem. So, at that time the bank wasnt aware of the issues 
Mr P was facing. Therefore, I dont think I can fairly say the bank is responsible for Mr Ps 
spending during this time or should refund any of the transactions made.
I sympathise with Mr Ps circumstances and I am pleased to see that the bank has 
suspended interest while our service looks into his complaint. I can also see that in Yorkshire 
Banks final response letter it asked Mr P to make contact with it to see how it can assist him 
further with the financial hardship he is experiencing. If Mr P hasnt done so already, I would 
urge him to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman