DRN-4004019
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires 
(and referred to here as BM) has unfairly refused to extend the term of their interest-only 
mortgage.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs L want BM to extend their mortgage until 31 May 2024.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs L being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, in 2003 Mr and Mrs L took out an interest-only mortgage with BM, the term of which 
expired in 2014. Mr and Mrs L told BM at that time that they wanted an extension of the 
mortgage for ten years (to 2024). They would then downsize by selling their home, or, if they 
decided to stay, they would obtain an equity release mortgage. Mr and Mrs L said that the 
older they were, the better the terms would be for that type of mortgage. BM granted a term 
extension of 5 years 5 months, which expired in 2019.
In 2020 BMs system re-set the term for 12 months. This wasnt a term extension but was to 
enable BMs systems to continue to collect the interest payments. There were further holds 
on the account due to the pandemic, in line with the regulators requirements put in place to 
help customers at that time.
There is an outstanding balance on the mortgage of approximately £232,000 which BM now 
require Mr and Mrs L to repay. However, Mr and Mrs L want the mortgage term extended 
further. BM says it cannot do so because Mr L is outside its upper age limit of 70 years for 
interest-only mortgages. Mr and Mrs L say that BMs refusal to agree a term extension 
amounts to discrimination because of Mr Ls age.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that BM was allowed to set an age limit for its interest-only mortgage and that it had granted 
suitable extensions to allow Mr and Mrs L to put a repayment strategy in place.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators findings; they acknowledged that they need 
to sell their property and are in contact with various estate agents about this. However, 
theyve decided against equity release, because of the early repayment charges that come 
with that type of mortgage. But they say that this doesnt alter the fact that BM has a policy 
of age discrimination, which was concealed from them. They would therefore like an 
ombudsman to make a ruling on the validity of BMs final response letter dated 21 April 2022 
and decide whether BMs policy is fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain that the ombudsman service offers an informal dispute resolution 
service. While we take relevant law, regulation and good practice into account, we cant 
decide whether the Equality Act 2010 has been breached  only a court can decide that. 
My role is to establish whether Mr and Mrs L were treated fairly or not, and in doing so, I 
have taken into account the Equality Act. Specifically, the points relevant to age 
discrimination, which were added to the Equality Act 2010 in 2012. 
At this time, age discrimination was made unlawful, so service providers cant refuse to 
provide a service, provide it on different terms, or treat customers differently because of their 
age. But an exception was made for providers of financial services which allowed them to 
make decisions based on age. This is known as the financial services exemption.
BM is therefore entitled under the Equality Act 2010 to apply age limits to financial products. 
I understand BMs maximum age policy pre-dated the provisions on age discrimination 
becoming part of the Equality Act 2010 in 2012. So the specific requirements for carrying out 
a risk assessment in relation to setting age limits for financial products didnt apply. 
Therefore, taking into account the law, I dont think BMs maximum age policy is unfair.
In addition, BM is also allowed to set its own lending criteria, based on its risk appetite and 
commercial consideration. I dont have the power to interfere with this or to tell BM who to 
lend to, or on what terms. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think BM has treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly. I note their initial 
intention to take out an equity release mortgage is now not something they are keen on 
doing. They are instead looking into a sale of the property. I am glad to see Mr and Mrs L are 
looking into this with estate agents. 
However, there are also lenders that offer Later Life or Retirement Interest Only mortgages, 
which are different from equity release, and Mr and Mrs L might want to look into those if 
they dont want an equity release mortgage. There is information online about these types of 
mortgages, or Mr and Mrs L could speak to a mortgage broker about these products, if it is 
something they might be interested in.
But I must remind Mr and Mrs L that they are in breach of their mortgage terms by not 
repaying the outstanding balance, and so they will need to address their minds to this as a 
matter of urgency. BM is entitled as a last resort to take legal action to recover the 
outstanding balance, and where a mortgage term has reached its end, the powers of the 
court to suspend possession are very limited indeed. But I think that BM should allow Mr and 
Mrs L six months from the date of this decision before taking any action.
I note that in February 2023 BM said it would agree a further six months to enable a sale of 
the property to take place, and that if it was provided with evidence of progress of a sale, it 
might agree a further hold on the account. The six-month period BM agreed to will expire on 
31 August 2023. I think this is more than reasonable, given that the mortgage term that had 
already been extended in 2014 expired over three years ago.
If Mr and Mrs L are able to provide BM with evidence by 31 August 2023 either that a sale of 
the property is progressing  and by that I mean confirmation from solicitors that exchange 
of contracts is imminent  or that they have a mortgage offer from another lender that would repay their mortgage to BM in full, then BM should hold off any enforcement action. 
However, if no progress has been made to sell the property or arrange another mortgage, 
then I think BM would be entitled to pursue its legal remedies.
I know this isnt the answer Mr and Mrs L wanted, but I hope they are now able to put in 
place a repayment strategy for the mortgage before 31 August 2023. I am sure that this has 
been a worrying time for them, but my decision will bring some clarity on what Mr and Mrs L 
now need to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman