DRN-1601452
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank plc closed his account without warning and applied a 
default to his credit file. 
What happened
Mr S had a current account with Lloyds with an agreed overdraft limit, which he regularly 
used. He began experiencing financial difficulties and asked Lloyds to allow him some time 
to sort out his finances. But when he was in a position to start making payments towards the 
overdrawn balance, he realised that his account had been closed and a default had been 
added to his credit file. 
Mr S complained. He said that he hadnt received Lloyds letter about this, and it hadnt tried 
to contact him. He said, if hed known what was going to happen, he wouldve tried to put the 
account back in order so the default wouldnt apply. He said he had every intention of paying 
the money back and has since done this so having the default on his credit file was unfair. 
Lloyds said that Mr Ss account had been with its collections department since July 2018 to 
help him to try and manage it. It said Mr S was in an unarranged overdraft but had told it he 
would pay this by February 2019. When this hadnt happened, it sent Mr S a formal demand 
which set out its intentions to close the account, but a 30-day hold was placed on this when 
Mr S said he would repay the overdrawn amount, and Lloyds also refunded £30 of charges. 
However, no payment was made, and Mr Ss account was closed after a further 30-days 
notice. Lloyds said that the closure and default were correctly applied.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said she felt Lloyds had acted positively and sympathetically by freezing the overdraft fees 
being applied to Mr Ss balance. The investigator said that the formal demand letter sent to 
Mr S explained that, if he couldnt bring his account up to date or agree a suitable way 
forward, Lloyds would close his account within two months. Mr S had spoken to Lloyds after 
receiving this letter, and the investigator felt that he shouldve been aware of the potential 
default if he didnt bring his account back in order in time. Lloyds then placed a 30-day hold 
on the account and refunded £30 in daily overdraft fees. 
The investigator said that, although Mr S may not have received the letter in March 2019, 
she thought that the contact hed had with Lloyds before this wouldve made him reasonably 
aware of what he needed to do to avoid the accounts closure. Overall, although the 
investigator acknowledged that a formal default notice wasnt sent to Mr S, she didnt think 
this wouldve made a difference to the account defaulting, as she didnt feel Mr S wouldve 
been in a position to repay the money owed. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. He 
asked whether Lloyds had explicitly told him that his account would close, as he doesnt 
recall being told this. He feels the letters didnt make it clear to him what may happen. He 
said that he couldve borrowed money from his family to bring his account back in line, or 
moved his finances around to pay Lloyds. He said he had a lot going on at the time, but if 
hed known it wouldve affected his credit file for six years, then he wouldve acted differently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully appreciate Mr Ss strength of feeling about this situation and I understand that he 
didnt want his account to get to this stage; and that the default will now have an impact on 
his ability to obtain credit elsewhere. He has now been able to fully repay the overdraft so I 
can see why he feels that the default showing for a six-year period is unfair. 
Ive looked through all of the information hes provided about his finances at the time, 
together with the records of his current account from Lloyds. And Ive listened to the 
recordings of the discussions that he had with Lloyds about his situation and plans to make 
payments towards the balance he owed.
Taking everything into account, I think Lloyds took steps to try and act positively and 
sympathetically to Mr S. An overdraft is repayable on demand and is designed for short-term 
emergency borrowing. To assist Mr S, Lloyds froze the daily interest fees he was incurring, 
and then continued this once he told it he was expecting a payment which he would use to 
bring the balance back within his agreed overdraft limit.
 
But when this didnt happen, Lloyds sent Mr S a formal demand which said:
 If you cant bring your account up to date or pay the amount you are above your arranged 
overdraft limit by 28 February 2019, or agree a suitable way forward with us, we:
 will close your account two months from receipt of this letter.
 may update your credit file with a default. This information will stay on your file for six
years and may affect your ability to borrow money in the future, not just with us, but
also with other banks, building societies, mobile phone operators and other credit
providers.
 may seek to recover the money owed by instructing a debt collection agency who may
take you to court and get a judgment against you requiring you to pay us the money you 
owe.
Mr S contacted Lloyds after receiving this letter and said he would make a payment to the 
account by the end of that week. Lloyds placed a further 30-day hold on the account so that 
no fees would be applied, and also refunded £30 of the fees to the balance.
Mr S was told this hold would be for 30 days and that he would need to contact Lloyds after 
that time. But he didnt make the payment as hed said, and didnt contact Lloyds. It then 
sent Mr S a further letter which said:
 .we will have to close your account 30 days from receipt of this letter and transfer your 
account balance to our recoveries team, unless you repay the outstanding balance in this 
time.
Although I appreciate that Mr S doesnt recall receiving this letter, and couldve made 
arrangements such as borrowing money from family to repay the amount he was over his 
limit by if hed understood his account would close; I think its reasonable to say that Mr S 
wouldve been aware of the need to repay the balance, and that any hold Lloyds had placed 
on taking action would only be temporary. He had told Lloyds on two occasions of his 
intention to pay money into the account within a specific time but hadnt done this.I fully appreciate this was a difficult time for Mr S, and Im sorry to hear that. But I dont think 
that Lloyds has acted unfairly or inappropriately in closing his account and registering the 
default when his situation was such that he wasnt able to maintain the account or make 
payments towards getting out of an overdrawn position. 
Overall, whilst I understand Mr Ss points about the registering of the default, I dont think 
Lloyds should be required to make any amendments to his credit file when this reflects how 
he maintained his current account. I can see that this is now showing as satisfied on his 
credit file. Lloyds has a responsibility to report accurate and up-to-date information to credit 
reference agencies, and I think thats what it has done here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman