DRN-3188727
The complaint
Ms B complains that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Pi Financial Ltd. She 
says the investment was too risky for her.
The advice was given by an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd. Pi Financial is 
responsible for the activities of that appointed representative so, for ease, I will refer to 
Pi Financial as the business throughout my decision.
What happened
In March 2019 Ms B met with an advisor from Pi Financial. She wanted to generate more 
income from her portfolio. Following the meeting Pi Financial set out a summary of what was 
discussed, together with its recommendations. In brief summary, its letter said that Ms B had 
existing investments of around £177,000, plus a pension portfolio of around £201,000. She 
was also due to receive an inheritance later that year. Her investment included a balanced 
fund valued at around £139,000 which the advisor recommended was switched into an 
income fund. This, he said, would generate enough income to meet her needs, without the 
need to sell units. The existing balanced fund had a risk level of 5 out of 10. The advisor 
explained that the recommended income fund had a risk level of 8 or 9 out of 10; but that it 
met Ms Bs income objectives and that, taking all her investments into account, the overall 
risk was an average of 5.8  and that would reduce to 5 once she received her inheritance.
Ms B went ahead with the recommended investment switch.
A further meeting was held in November 2019 when Ms B had received her inheritance. 
Following that meeting, it was agreed to invest a further £30,000 into the income fund. 
£20,000 was also invested in a different income fund (with a risk rating of 4 out of 7) to be 
held within an ISA wrapper.
In August 2020, Ms B complained that, following a fall in the value of her investment, she 
met with the advisor and he acknowledged that the income fund was above her risk appetite. 
She said, if shed realised, she wouldnt have invested.
Pi Financial said that, whilst the income fund didnt correspond directly with Ms Bs attitude 
to risk, its approach had been to view her investments collectively. It said Ms B had been 
provided information about the funds risk and reward score and that shed confirmed her 
understanding and agreed to proceed.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that the 
investment in the income fund saw Ms B more exposed to equities and that, even taking her 
investments as a whole, this was more risk than she was prepared to take. He couldnt see 
that Pi Financial had made clear the potential loss she might incur. 
Pi Financial didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
The advisor has many years experience and is well qualified.
Investment in a fund which generated income through dividend and interest payments 
reduced the risk of Ms B needing to sell investments to supplement her income. 
Ms Bs priority was to obtain a high level of income from her investment; capital growth 
was secondary, and her investment was for the long term.
The choice of collective funds is limited as many are only available as accumulated 
funds. Extensive research was carried out before the recommended income fund was 
selected.
Taking into account the inheritance Ms B knew she would be receiving, there was an 
overall portfolio risk rating of 5 out of 10.
Ms B was aware, and accepted that, the capital value of the fund would fluctuate. Shes 
taken advantage of an initial reduction in the capital value of the fund to make a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ms Bs requirement was for income. And I accept the income fund met this requirement. 
I think it was entirely reasonable for the advisor to change the investment approach to meet 
this requirement. Ms B had been encashing units to supplement her income. Whilst this isnt 
an uncommon approach, it ran the risk of her needing to sell units when values might be low, 
whilst decreasing the number of units she held, resulting in smaller returns, and less capital 
growth, over the longer term. I find recommending a switch to investments that could provide 
her with the income she needed, without eating into the capital of the investment, was not 
inappropriate.
But Ms B has been clear and consistent throughout about the level of risk she was prepared 
to take with her investment. And this was accurately recorded by the advisor. Ms B had a 
risk profile of 5 out of 10 and was categorised as having a low medium attitude to risk. 
The advisor said the income fund he recommended had a risk level of 8 or 9 out of 10. This 
reflected almost 97% of its assets being UK Equities. I find that the income fund was too 
high risk for Ms B, given her attitude to risk was low medium.
But Ive gone onto consider what Pi Financial has said. Firstly, that the strategy was to 
obtain natural income from dividends to reduce the risks associated with withdrawing 
money from an investment that is falling in value. Ive already accepted this was not an 
inappropriate strategy in Ms Bs circumstances. But I dont agree that strategy should have been followed without due consideration of Ms Bs attitude to risk, which I think was of equal, 
and possibly prime, importance.
Second, that capital growth was secondary, and that Ms B was investing for the medium to 
long term and that short-term fluctuations should not matter when income is being taken in 
this way. I find that Ms B will have understood that most investment comes with some risk. 
And she had some capacity for loss. But Im not persuaded Ms B was willing to withstand 
short-term fluctuations in the capital value of her investment. Or that she understood 
Pi Financials strategy was to consider her attitude to risk as secondary to her income 
objective.
Thirdly, that the fund was not Ms Bs only investment. And that looking at Ms Bs 
investments as a whole, they were suitable for her attitude to risk. In its letter to Ms B, 
Pi Financial listed the risk level of each of Ms Bs investments and calculated that, whilst the 
risk of the income fund was 9 out of 10, the average risk of all her investments was 5.8. It 
said that this average would be reduced to below 5 once Ms B received her inheritance. But 
Im not persuaded Ms B was prepared to take such a high risk with part of her investment, 
regardless of the fact that her other investments may have been lower risk. She has been 
consistent in making it clear  both to Pi Financial and to us - that she had a low appetite for 
risk and was keen to preserve the capital value of her wealth and her inheritance.
Taking all this into account, I dont find the advice to invest in the income fund  in March 
and November 2019 - was suitable for Ms B.
I accept Ms B agreed to go ahead with the investment after Pi Financial had made it 
reasonably clear that the income fund was high risk. But it was Pi Financials responsibility to 
ensure the advice it gave was suitable for Ms B, and I dont find that it was.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Ms B as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Ms B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Ms B's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Pi Financial do?
To compensate Ms B fairly, Pi Financial must:
Compare the performance of Ms B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pi Financial should also pay interest as set out below.
Repay the advisors fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date 
the fees were paid to the date of the settlement. If the above comparison shows that 
no compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the fair value can be offset against the fees with interest.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Premier 
Monthly 
Income FundStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Pi Financial 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi Financial totals all those payments 
and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting 
periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and 
left uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms B wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Ms B into that position. It does not mean 
that Ms B would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Ms B could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Pi Financial Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Ms B in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman