DRN-3172567
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Amtrust Europe Limited have dealt with a claim he made under a 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
References to Amtrust are intended to include the actions of its claims handlers. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr H, and by Amtrust, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Insurers will decide what risks and claims they want to cover, and these will be set 
out in the policy document. This means that not all legal claims will be covered by an 
insurance policy. Insurers arent legal experts and therefore it is not unusual for 
claims of this type to be dealt with by claims handlers and then solicitors. 
Claims handlers will be responsible for initially checking the claim a policyholder 
wishes to make is covered by a policy and if necessary, gather all of the information 
that maybe required for a solicitor to be able to given an initial opinion on whether 
they think such a claim would be successful. This isnt unreasonable, as I wouldnt 
expect an insurer to incur costs of a legal opinion if a claim isnt covered by the 
policy. Only once both these steps are passed and the claim is deemed to have 
prospects of being successful, would policy cover engage. 
I understand Mr H thinks it is in Amtrusts benefit for as many claims as possible to 
be declined at the first stage however, this has no bearing on my decision. My role is 
to decide whether I think Amtrust has applied the terms and conditions of the policy 
fairly when declining his claim. 
Having looked at the claim Mr H wished to bring (and the alterations he made to it) 
Im satisfied it was correctly explained to him that there would be no cover available 
under the policy. 
As I mentioned above, each insurer is able to set its own terms. And, in this case, 
having considered the policy terms and the events Mr H has described, Im satisfied 
the circumstances of Mr Hs claim would be classed as starting before the policy did. 
Therefore, I think the claim has also fairly been declined because of this reason.
There is also mention the claim could be excluded as other parties could benefit from 
any action taken. However, I dont think I need to consider this point as I am satisfied 
the claim wouldnt otherwise have been covered. 
I appreciate Mr H feels he has been treated unfairly however for the reasons above I dont 
think Amtrust has done anything wrong here. The policy terms have been fairly and 
reasonably applied to Mr Hs claim and I will therefore not be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman