DRN-3609922
The complaint
Mr H complains about the closure of his account with American Express Services
Europe Limited (AESEL).
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr H and AESEL. I wont repeat in 
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mr H was working abroad during the COVID-19 pandemic and unable to return to the UK for 
a prolonged period. AESEL say they closed Mr Hs account for fraud prevention/protection 
reasons, after an extended period where it hadnt been utilised.
Mr H complained to AESEL but they didnt uphold his complaint. Unhappy, he referred it to 
our Service for an independent review. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. As Mr H didnt accept their findings, the complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment 
on every interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
When coming to my decision Ive kept in mind that these events happened against the 
backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic which has caused unprecedented challenges for 
customers and businesses. 
The account closure
Mr H disputes the reason AESEL have given for closing his account. But the account terms 
allow AESEL to close an account for any reason with at least two months notice. 
AESEL communicated to Mr H on more than one occasion that his account would close if he 
didnt take action. Mr H has said:
you've sent letters to me that I could never have read, and placed critical account 
information in a place I never look..
The relevant information here was communicated in two online statements (April, May 2021) 
and a letter sent on 13 June 2021 to Mr H. He says hed logged into his account online - but 
hadnt opened the PDFs/statements that contained this important information and wouldnt 
have seen the letter as he was abroad at that time. I cant hold AESEL responsible for this. 
To elaborate on this, Mr H has said:
I registered as "paperless customer" yet I received no notification from American 
Express digitally. They expressed no concern that I hadn't viewed PDF statements. I 
receive prompts and reminders from other UK financial institutions. 
But I find that AESEL followed this paperless request and sent the information theyd 
normally send by post in a digital format. If Mr H chose not to digitally access this 
information, thats not something I can fairly say AESEL are responsible for. 
Im only considering the actions of AESEL here and not how other financial business contact 
their customers. Its also not within my remit to tell a business to update or change their 
communication channels or methods. As outlined already, Im satisfied AESEL 
communicated the important information here to Mr H in the way he had requested.
Whether Mr H was aboard or at home, the relevant information on his statements in April 
and May 2021 was available to access through his online account. It wouldnt be 
unreasonable to expect that Mr H would keep a close eye on this account when abroad to 
monitor for unexpected activity  especially as hes told us he didnt have this account card 
with him (even if it was stored securely). This is particularly relevant given that he was 
abroad for an extended period of time.
I find that AESEL have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with both the terms of the account 
and their dormant account process when communicating and ultimately closing this account. 
By opting to go paperless, Mr H chose to receive important information digitally and it follows 
this placed responsibility on him to ensure he accessed or read that information. 
Other points raised by Mr H
When Mr H realised his account had been closed, he says he incurred high call costs 
(around £40) contacting AESEL from overseas. Hes said:
it was American Express who prevented me from communicating via other 
channels at no cost, as they withdrew my access.
I can understand this will have been frustrating for Mr H, but as Ive seen no evidence of any 
failings by AESEL when handling the account closure, I dont find that AESEL need to 
reimburse Mr H for any of the call costs. Its not unusual that access to online services would 
be withdrawn when an account closes - for security reasons, and the cost to call from abroad 
will have been similar for any customer in the same position. 
My decision will no doubt disappoint Mr H, but it brings to an end our Services involvement 
in trying to informally resolve this dispute between him and AESEL.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman