DRN-2458156
The complaint
Mr M complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) returned 
a payment to his account.
What happened
Mr M had a Tesco credit card. In September 2020 his wife made a faster payment from her 
bank account to the credit card. It wasnt credited to the account as it didnt quote the credit 
card number as a reference. The payment was returned to the bank that sent it. Mr M was 
charged a late payment fee and interest. He was sent a late payment notice.
Mr M complained. He believed that Tesco should have made enquiries to ensure that the 
payment was credited to his account, not returning it to the sending bank. The payment 
included his name, sorting code and account number of Tesco Bank. He said it wasnt clear 
that the full card number was needed. He was charged a late payment fee and interest. He 
received a late payment notice which he said impacted his credit rating.
Tesco said that theyd done nothing wrong. They returned the payment as it didnt contain 
enough information for them to apply it to the account. When making a faster payment to the 
account, the 16-digit credit card number should be quoted as the reference number. This 
information was shown on the back of the credit card statements. His credit records were 
changed so there was no mention of what had happened. Tesco didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint but refunded the late payment fee of £12 and interest charged of £29.97, plus a 
goodwill payment of £25.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator replied in December 2020. She 
said that the ways to pay information on the statement explained that the card number 
should be used as the payment reference. Looking at the card terms and conditions, the 
charges were correctly applied as they said that a late payment fee was applicable if the 
minimum payment wasnt received on time. She noted that the late fee and interest had 
been refunded, plus a goodwill payment for the delay in dealing with Mr Ms complaint. She 
considered that Tesco had acted reasonably.
Mr M asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint I think the main issues are  whether Tesco could be expected 
to apply the credit to Mr Ms card account with the incomplete information, and whether the 
information on the reverse of the statement is clear enough. 
I can see that Mr M feels strongly about his complaint. It must have been very frustrating for 
him to find out that the payment hadnt been credited to his account. Especially when the 
first he heard of it was when he got a default fees letter saying that a late payment fee had 
been made. 
Tescos terms and conditions say they were entitled to charge a late payment fee of £12 if 
the minimum payment isnt received on time, and charge interest if the full balance isnt 
repaid by the payment due date. And thats ultimately what happened here. So I think it was 
fair for Tesco to take the action they did when the payment was missed. The terms of the 
account here dont cover exactly what would happen in a situation like this, as the payment 
here wasnt made from the Tesco account, but instead from another account held elsewhere 
by Mr Ms wife. So the terms of the account dont give any obligation on Tesco to have done 
what Mr M thinks it should have here.
Tesco said that their process is to return any payments which cannot be applied to the 
correct account. In this case, the full card number was missing and so the payment was 
returned to the sending bank.  Mr M has said that Tesco should have been able to apply the 
payment because his name was shown on it. Or they should have been able to identify him 
by going back to the bank that sent the payment. A large bank like Tesco will process a 
great deal of payments to card accounts every day. To make it possible for them to do that 
effectively, they ask for certain information to be given by customers when they make 
payments. If that information isnt given in line with these requirements, then it can cause 
problems  as it did here. Mr M has asked why Tesco wasnt able to apply the payment even 
where he provided his name, or why it didnt contact the sending bank. But Tesco has 
explained that this isnt its process here  instead it sent the payment back to the sending 
bank. So Tesco acted correctly here and treated the payment as it would if any other 
customer made the same mistake.
Turning to the transparency of Tescos guidance on the statements. On the back of the 
statements, it says Ways to pay Set up with your bank using these details: Sort Code: xx-
xx-xx and Account Number: xxxxxxxxUse your 16-digit Tesco Credit Card number as your 
payment reference, without any dashes or spaces. I can see that the payment instruction 
from the bank quoted the account number, but it wasnt made with the correct payment 
reference. It may be that Mr M or his wife made an honest mistake here, but that doesnt 
mean that it would be fair to hold Tesco liable for this  where the information it provides to 
its customers is clear. Mr M also told our investigator that he had used online banking before 
to make payments to the card account, which would support that the information around this 
is clear  if Mr M has been able to make successful payments before.
I realise that for Mr M  he may think the problems he faced as the result of a small error to 
be disproportionate. But Tesco explained what information it needed clearly and Im satisfied 
that it was entitled to treat this payment like it did here.
In any event - Tesco refunded the late payment fee and paid compensation of £25 for the 
delay in dealing with Mr Ms complaint. They also changed his credit file, so his payment 
record was not affected. I think this was reasonable. I realise that Mr M still feels that issues 
have gone unanswered by Tesco and that certain issues and emails havent been 
responded to. But in the circumstances here, Im satisfied that what Tesco has done to put 
things right is fair and so I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman