DRN-2844328
The complaint
Ms B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined her business interruption 
insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Ms B held a retail insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. The policy provided a number of 
areas of cover relevant to Ms Bs business, including for business interruption. In 
March 2020, Ms B had to close the premises of her business as a result of the 
government-imposed restrictions introduced to limit the spread of COVID-19. She claimed 
under the policy for the losses suffered as a result of this closure. 
However, Aviva declined the claim. It said the core cover provided by the business 
interruption section of the policy required there to be damage to certain premises and/or 
property. And COVID-19 had not caused such damage. Aviva also said that the policy did 
include cover in relation to the impact of certain diseases, but only in relation to the diseases 
specified in the policy. And COVID-19 was not on this list of specified diseases. 
Ms B was unhappy with this and complained, ultimately referring her complaint to this 
service. But our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He agreed with the 
reasons provided by Aviva as to why the policy didnt cover the circumstances of Ms Bs 
claim, so he didnt think Aviva had acted inappropriately by declining the claim. Ms B 
remained unsatisfied and her complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Ms B and her business, I wont be upholding her complaint. My 
reasons are substantially the same as the Investigators.
I understand that Ms B closed her business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of her business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover shes looking to claim under is business 
interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Ms B took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Ms Bs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover  including the prevention of access extension, is 
based on an interruption to the business of the insured which has been caused by damage 
to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont 
think COVID-19 caused damage to property which has led to an interruption of Ms Bs 
business.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ms Bs claim. And I think 
Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ms Bs claim under this area of cover.
Ms Bs policy does include a potentially relevant extension to the business interruption 
section that provides cover that does not require there to have been damage as defined by 
the policy. The Specified Disease, Food Poisoning, Vermin Pests and Defective Sanitation, 
Murder or Suicide extension (Specified Disease extension) provides cover in relation to a 
number of events including where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is 
limited to providing cover in the event of certain diseases.
The Specified Disease extension says, in part, that it provides cover as a result of:
A Specified Disease occurring at Your Premises or within five miles of the boundary 
of Your Premises
However, it goes on to say:
For the purposes of this cover, Specified Disease means any of the following 
diseases contracted by any person
8.8.1 Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chicken pox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Erysipeloid, Legionellosis, Legionnaires, Disease 
Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Lyme Disease, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, 
Meningococcal septicaemia, Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, Paratyphoid 
fever, Puerperal fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fevers, Rubella, Scarlet fever, 
Smallpox, Tetanus, Toxoplasmosis, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, 
Viral hepatitis, Whooping cough, Yellow fever
8.8.2 Viral haemorrhagic fever caused by the following viruses: Lassa virus, Junin 
virus, Machupo virus, Sabia virus, Guanarito virus, Ebola virus, Marburg virus, 
Crimean-Congo, haemorrhagic fever virus, Hanta virus, Rift Valley fever virus, 
Yellow fever virus, Dengue virus.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Ms B with cover for the circumstances of her claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt 
one of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Aviva to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
Aviva intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. Aviva deliberately 
chose to define Specified Disease by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. Such policies were also those that were 
considered by the courts in the FCA test case that Ms B has referred to. But this is not the 
type of policy Ms B had. The relevant cover provided by her policy was limited to the 
diseases listed in the policy. I think the purpose and effect of the policy Ms B had was to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of Specified Disease in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ms Bs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. 
As cover was not provided under this area of Ms Bs policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Avivas decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Aviva should have met Ms Bs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for her, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman