DRN-1378650
 
The complaint
Mr R's complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), relates to an 
incident when he visited a branch.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr R and NatWest, so I wont repeat it in any great detail. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather, I dont think its relevant to the 
issues I need to deal with. However in summary it is this; 
When visiting a NatWest branch something happened between Mr R and another customer. 
Mr R ended up on the floor injured, and a staff member tried to sort it out. Mr R says the staff 
member told other people not to approach him because he had a mental illness. 
NatWest investigated the complaint and spoke to staff members who were present. They 
also looked at the CCTV recording. They said that it looked like it was Mr R who was being 
aggressive towards another female customer and that their staff members had intervened to 
protect that female customer. But, they did pay Mr R £75.
Mr R was unhappy with NatWests final response letter to him, and so brought his complaint 
to this service and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator viewed the 
CCTV footage and found that the branch staff had not been hostile or aggressive to Mr R 
and that it looked more like they were trying to calm him down. Mr R did fall to the floor, but 
he did so without anyone pushing him. 
So the investigator didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly towards Mr R and didnt uphold 
his complaint. Mr R didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to try to resolve complaints and to award compensation where it is appropriate. I 
look at all relevant points so I can reach a decision based on the evidence I have seen. 
Where the evidence is not complete, then I think about what is more likely to have happened 
in the light of the evidence which is available. I take into account both sides views in 
considering whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr R.
So, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. It is clear Mr R had a bad time when he 
visited the branch. He did fall to the floor and that cant have been nice. But the reason he 
fell was nothing to do with the staff at the branch. But the best evidence comes from the 
CCTV and that shows that the staff did nothing wrong. In fact they were trying to help Mr R. I have seen the statement made by the branch manager before she looked at the CCTV and 
that is in line with what can be seen on the CCTV. And I know the CCTV doesnt have any 
sound on it but the manager was present on that day and has said there was no mention of 
any mental health issues. 
It was the NatWest branch manager who paid Mr R £75 in compensation but that was before 
she had looked at the CCTV, and she has said since that this was as a gesture of goodwill.
So, although Mr R will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say NatWest have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint because I cant see 
that NatWest have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman