DRN-1990743
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society granted him a mortgage on his property in 
2017, but when he came to sell it in 2019 his buyer was told it wasnt suitable security for a 
Nationwide mortgage.
What happened
Mr F bought this property in June 2017 by way of a mortgage with Nationwide. A valuation of 
the property had been carried out in March 2017 which deemed it suitable security.
In 2019 Mr F was selling the property and his potential buyer also applied for a mortgage 
with Nationwide. A valuation was carried out which said the property wasnt suitable security 
for a mortgage.
Unhappy with this Mr F complained to Nationwide. It rejected his complaint, saying it relied 
on the opinion of the surveyors.
Our investigator said we couldnt deal with a complaint about what happened to his buyer in 
2019, nor could we consider a complaint about the 2017 surveyor, only about Nationwides 
actions or inactions. And having considered the complaint he thought Nationwide hadnt 
done anything wrong. Mr F didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr F wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file 
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome. 
As our investigator explained, we cant consider what happened in 2019 as the only person 
that can complain about that is Mr Fs buyer as they were the party to the mortgage 
application that was turned down.
Turning to what happened in 2017 when Mr F bought the property, Nationwide doesnt have 
the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a surveyor. When doing so, its 
obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement that was fulfilled in this case 
by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. Nationwides not 
accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or omission) by the 
surveyor or the firm he works for. 
Mr F says his contract was with Nationwide, not the surveyor so his issue is for Nationwide 
to deal with. Unfortunately, thats not how it works.
Nationwide is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can consider 
against Nationwide is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors, and 
having assessed everything Im satisfied it did.
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr F found himself him, I simply have no 
grounds under our rules to hold Nationwide liable for that as it relied on the opinion of the 
surveyor when granting the mortgage in 2017. I can only award compensation if I uphold a 
complaint; that is, if I find the business did something wrong.  As Ive no grounds under our 
rules to uphold this complaint against Nationwide, it follows that I cant award any form of 
compensation to Mr F irrespective of how much distress he was caused.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman