DRN-2746191
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt refunded, in full, the 
premium he paid for a single trip travel insurance policy.
All reference to URV includes its agents.
What happened
In early March 2020, Mr C bought a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV 
(the policy). 
The policy was taken out to cover a trip abroad between 31 May and 17 June 2020 - and 
cost £11.45. 
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, at the end of April 2020, Mr Cs trip was re-arranged to take 
place between 28 September and 14 October 2020.  And at the end of May 2020, Mr C 
contacted URV to enquire about changing the period of cover under the policy. URV said it 
was able to do this for an increased premium of £4.10. However, if the period of cover was 
changed, URV told Mr C that any claims relating to the Covid-19 pandemic would be 
excluded going forwards. As an alternative, Mr C was given the option to cancel the policy 
and receive a partial refund of the premium hed initially paid for the policy. 
Mr C didnt think that was fair, so complained to our Service. 
One of our investigators looked at what happened. She asked URV to confirm the 
percentage refund it was offering Mr C. URV confirmed that it was offering to refund 75% of 
the premium Mr C paid for the policy rather than 50% which the policy allows for.  
Our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19 
but overall, she thought URVs offer was fair and reasonable.
When issuing her view on the case, our investigator set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. Our investigator 
also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started 
to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. Our investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 5 March 
2020 and the policy covered various risks from the date it started.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted a full refund of the premium. So, his complaint has been 
passed to me to consider everything afresh and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs insurance policy with URV outline their cancellation 
rights under the contract. These say:
We will consider a partial refund of your premium should you wish to cancel your
policy outside of the 14-day cooling off period provided you have not travelled or
claimed, or intend to make a claim, on the policy.
For single trip policies - If we agree to refund, then we will refund 50% of the total
premium you have paid (including any additional premium charged for an existing
medical condition).
I dont uphold this complaint. In the circumstances of this case, I think URVs offer to refund 
to Mr C 75% of the premium he paid for the policy is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
I dont think URV treated Mr C unfairly by asking him to pay an additional £4.10 if he 
wanted to change the period of cover under the policy. Further, by the time Mr C 
asked URV to change the dates of cover, the global impact of Covid-19 had become 
clearer and was a known risk. The FCO had also advised against all but essential 
travel abroad on 17 March 2020 because of the pandemic and this advice was still in 
place at the time Mr C wanted to change the period of cover. So, I dont think it was 
unfair or unreasonable for URV to have excluded any claim relating to Covid-19 if the 
period of cover was changed to later in the year. In general terms, and as long as 
they treat customers fairly, insurers can decide how they want to conduct their 
business and what risks they are prepared to insure. Thats not something with which 
wed ordinarily interfere. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think URV acted unfairly or 
treated Mr C any differently than it wouldve treated any other policyholder in the 
same circumstances.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no requirement
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a full refund,
as Mr C has requested.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more
than 14 days after payment of the premium, and subject to certain conditions, URV
will consider a partial refund of 50% of the policy premium for single trip policies. So,
by offering Mr C 75% of his premium back, URV has gone beyond what
its required to offer under the contract of insurance.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding
Covid-19. Mr C was covered from 5 March 2020 for a number of listed events insured 
under the policy and I dont think hes been treated unfairly. 
I know Mr C has said that he didnt cancel the policy; he just wanted to change the 
period of cover. However, as he didnt agree to the terms on which URV offered to 
change the period of cover, the policy wouldve expired on 17 June 2020 as per the 
schedule of insurance. 
Mr C also says that if he didnt change the dates of his holiday, he wouldve been able to make a successful claim under the policy for the cost of his original trip and 
the claim wouldve been more than the full premium refund Mr C is looking for. 
However, any claim made under the policy wouldve been subject to the remaining 
terms of the policy and it wouldnt have been automatically accepted. And besides, it 
was Mr Cs choice to move the dates of his holiday rather than looking to make a 
claim on the policy at that time. 
If Mr C wishes to take up URVs offer of a refund of 75% of the premium, he should
contact URV directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman