DRN-4254282
The complaint
Mr E complains that Covea Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim he made against his 
home insurance contents cover after his furniture was stolen by a bogus buyer.
What happened
Mr E said hed put his dining table and chairs up for sale on an on-line platform for £400.    
Mr E said hed arranged with a buyer for them to call and collect the furniture. And after 
taking the items the buyer showed his mobile phone screen to Mr E. This appeared to show 
a bank transfer to Mr E for the £400. Mr E said as the buyer left he took a note of his car 
registration number. Upon checking his bank account Mr E could see the £400 hadnt been 
received. He said he called the buyer who claimed there was a fault with the dining table, 
and it was arranged for Mr E to collect it. But Mr E found hed been given a false address. 
And on reporting the matter to the police also found the car registration number wasnt 
correct. Mr E said while hed been shown the transfer of the £400 it now seems the bogus 
buyer wasnt connected to the internet so the transfer was never completed. 
Mr E reported the matter to the police and claimed against his contents insurance for the 
theft of his property. Covea declined the insurance claim under the policy exclusion of 
deception. Mr E complained to Covea.
Covea said theyd acted fairly in declining Mr Es claim as for the deception element of the 
policy to be considered Mr E would need to show that someone he wasnt expecting had 
gained access to his property by pretending to be from the gas board, water board, or 
electricity board. And this wasnt what had happened.
Mr E wasnt happy with Coveas response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator while he accepted that Mr E had been the victim of a bogus buyer being 
untruthful. He didnt consider Covea had acted unfairly as theyd applied the terms of the 
policy fairly.
Mr E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know my decision will be disappointing for 
Mr E, while I empathise with the position he finds himself in, for me to say Covea must do 
something different I must first be satisfied they declined his claim unfairly I cant see that 
they have here which is why I wont be asking them to do anything else. Ill explain why.
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must show they have a valid 
claim, meaning an insured event happened that caused them damage or a loss. Insurable 
events are listed in the policy and reflect the fact that no policy covers everything that might 
happen. Only loss caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be 
covered. If the loss can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay 
the claim unless theyre able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. 
Ive considered the contents insurance policy Mr E had with Covea. The policy Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) shows Mr E had Home Insurance Essentials cover for 
buildings and contents. And he was insured under his contents policy for:
Damage to your contents caused by things such as fire, storm, flood, theft, escape of water, 
malicious acts and subsidence".
So, theft is an insurable risk covered under the policy. Theft by deception, which is what 
seems to have happened here is where consumers are tricked or mis-led and a theft 
happens because of this.  I can see there is a general exclusion term under the policy for 
Deception which says::
Any loss or damage caused by deception unless the only deception is gaining entry to the 
home.
And its this exclusion Covea has relied on to decline Mr Es claim. In deciding whether 
Covea has applied this exclusion fairly Ive also considered whether Mr E had taken 
reasonable steps to prevent what happened.
I can understand why Mr E thinks his claim should be covered. The bogus buyer went to 
great lengths to obtain his property by deception. But the deception wasn't only about 
gaining entry to his home to make the most of opportunities once in there. The deception 
started even before the buyer attended Mr Es home and continued thereafter. A classic 
example of gaining entry by deception would be cold-calling and pretending to be someone 
from an approved organisation, such as someone pretending to be from a utilities company 
and persuading the homeowner to let them in. Thats not what happened here. 
In Mr Es case, he was expecting the buyer. The deception was around the intent, or not, to 
pay for the items handed over: not about a deception purely to gain entry to his home. 
Its not in dispute that Mr E was deceived by the bogus buyer into letting him take his table 
and chairs from inside his property, and that he was led to believe that a money transfer had 
been done. While Mr E said hed checked the mobile phone of the bogus buyer, I dont think 
he took the reasonable step of confirming the payment had reached his bank account before 
allowing the items to be taken. 
So, Im satisfied Covea has acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Es claim under the 
policy exclusion of theft by deception.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr E especially given hed acted in good faith 
when letting the bogus buyer take his items. But I cant instruct Covea to settle Mr Es claim 
as I think theyve applied the exclusion term fairly.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman