DRN-2966033
The complaint
Mr M complains Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans (Satsuma) 
gave him a new loan in February 2020, when he was under the impression the new funds 
were a top up of funds to his outstanding loan.
  
What happened
In total Mr M has taken four loans from Satsuma, but this complaint is only concerned with 
the circumstances that led him to taking loan 4, rather than top up loan 3, which is what Mr 
M thought he agreed to.
 
Mr M took loan 3 in July 2019 for the sum of £340. He was required to make 12 payments of 
£56.44. As far as I can see, when loan 4 was granted Mr M had made all of his payments 
and his loan was up to date. 
Mr M says that he received an email from Satsuma in January 2020 inviting him to apply for 
further credit. Mr M says his car needed some work, so he took advantage of this offer, and 
borrowed a further £410 to be repaid over 12 months at a rate of around £68 per month 
(loan 4).
 
Mr M has told us that he believed loan 4 was a top up of the existing loan, rather than a new 
loan which would run alongside loan 3. 
Over the course of the next couple of months, payments were missed on loan 3, which 
resulted in adverse information being reported on Mr Ms credit file. Mr M did receive missed 
payment text messages, but he believed there was just a delay from when he was making 
the payments to the messages being generated. Mr M says it wasnt until April 2020 that he 
realised he had two loans. 
Mr M complained to Satsuma that he had been mis-led into taking a new loan as he thought 
he was applying for a top-up to loan 3. In response, Satsuma said it hadnt made an error. It 
explained that it doesnt allow loans to be topped up so both loans were due to be repaid. 
Satsuma also explained both loans wouldve appeared on Mr Ms online portal. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Satsuma had done anything wrong. She said at the time of loan 
4 being granted Mr M still owed £395.08. And looking at the loan agreement she couldnt 
see any information to suggest that loan 3 was being repaid or that loan 4 would be a top up. 
So, she wasnt able to conclude that Satsuma had mis-led Mr M and therefore didnt uphold 
the complaint.
 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators findings and asked to take his complaint further. In 
summary he said;
once he realised what had happened, he shouldve been given the option of 
cancelling the loan 
Mr M says he shouldnt have been targeted for further borrowing and it wasnt clear 
that he was being given a new loan
Satsuma shouldve let him put things right when he realised what had happened by 
just repaying the capital amount borrowed. 
Satsuma has mis-led him. 
The adjudicator responded to Mr M and explained to him that his comments hadnt changed 
her mind about the complaint. Mr M responded, saying he doesnt believe that Satsuma has 
dealt with him honestly, and as a customer it has made things difficult for him.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, Im only looking at, whether Satsuma induced Mr M to take out a further loan 
and whether it did anything wrong when it gave him another loan. Im not considering 
anything else in relation to what happened at the time the loan was approved. 
It is also worth saying that I can only ask Satsuma to pay compensation and/or put Mr M 
back into the position he wouldve been in if I can conclude that Satsuma has made an error. 
Unfortunately, taking into account everything Ive seen, I dont think Satsuma has done 
anything wrong here. The effective of this is that I wont be asking Satsuma to do anything to 
put things right for Mr M. Ive explained why below.  
Mr M says this whole situation started because he received, what appears to have been 
marketing email from Satsuma in January 2020. Mr M has told us this email has been 
deleted  so he cant provide a copy of it. Satsuma also hasnt been able to provide us an 
exact copy of the email that was sent. 
But what Satsuma has sent is copies of, and details of its marketing material it has used 
since May 2019. Having looked at this material, there is no reference to any top ups, all the 
material references taking out loan(s). So, although I dont have the January 2020 email sent 
to Mr M, on balance, and based on what I have, I think its unlikely that the email wouldve 
said that Mr M would be able to top up his loan. 
Following the application for the loan, a credit agreement was generated and wouldve been 
given to Mr M before the loan was funded. Ive been able to view this agreement. Im 
satisfied, based on what Ive seen that this is for a new loan the agreement. It says Fixed 
sum agreement followed by the amount lent £410. After this, it gives further details of the 
loan including the term and the monthly cost. 
I can see nothing in the agreement that would indicate to Mr M that he was taking a top-up 
or the terms and conditions of this third loan were being altered in any way. 
The credit agreement, also gave Mr M two weeks to withdraw from the loan if he wasnt 
happy with it. By doing this, Mr M wouldve only had to repay any capital (and any interest 
due to Satsuma within the withdrawal period). The two weeks passed without the loan being 
cancelled. This means that when Mr M discovered what had happened Satsuma wasnt 
under any automatic obligation to cancel the loan, or to just accept the principal amount it 
had lent. 
Im also aware, from other complaints, that Satsuma doesnt allow loans to be topped up. It 
does allow loans to run concurrently (so having more than one loan running at the same time). This is what has happened here, so the fact that more than one loan is running at the 
same time, is not itself an error and is not something that is prohibited within the regulations. 
I have no doubt that Mr M believed that he was taking a top up for this third loan, but, based 
on the evidence that Ive seen Im not able to say that Satsuma mis-led him in any way. This 
means I cant ask Satsuma to either pay any compensation or make any corrections to the 
credit file because it hasnt made an error. 
It isnt clear, but it looks like, at least at the point that Satsuma provided this service with its 
file that an outstanding balance remains on loan 4. I can see that Mr M settled his third loan 
in May 2020, and he received a rebate for doing so. 
But, if an outstanding balance remains on loan 4, then Id remind Satsuma of its obligation to 
treat Mr M fairly and with forbearance if he is having financial difficulties. 
Taking everything into account, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr M. But I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings that I 
have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman