DRN-2173742
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) wont refund him a broker fee paid to arrange a 
finance deal on a car that he has rejected.  
What happened
Mr S entered into a lease hire agreement for a new car with Lex in December 2018. The car 
had a number of faults that couldnt be satisfactorily repaired, and Lex terminated the 
agreement in September 2019. Lex refunded Mr S two monthly rentals along with £150 to 
reflect the inconvenience and extra insurance costs. 
Mr S entered into another agreement with the assistance of a broker and was charged a 
further admin fee of £234.00. Mr S asked Lex to reimburse this cost. Lex didnt agree and 
said it was not responsible for this so Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. They thought that Mr S should 
have the admin cost he paid on the first agreement refunded. Mr S obtained confirmation 
from his broker that this was £120.
Lex didnt agree that it was responsible for this cost and said that Mr S had received a 
service that he had paid for in terms of setting up the finance agreement documentation. It 
said it was not involved in this relationship and it was not a loss that was related to the 
breach of contract. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 allows the consumer to recover any costs incurred 
as a result of the breach. This service takes account of the relevant law and 
regulations, but it does not apply them in the same way a court might. This service 
also looks at what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S paid the fee to set up the finance agreement with the expectation that it would 
run the full term. Because the car was returned early, I dont think Mr S has had the 
benefit of the fee he paid. I think he is out of pocket by this amount because the car 
supplied was faulty and had to be returned.
I have considered what Lex say about the options open to Mr S to negotiate his 
finance. Nonetheless, he had chosen a service to make the process easy for him 
and he paid for that service. I think he has lost the value and benefit of that service 
as the agreement was terminated early because of the faulty car and he had had to 
start the whole process again.
I have taken on board what Lex says about the cost being an avoidable cost and one 
that was incurred before the faulty car was supplied but I dont think that makes a 
difference to my decision. Mr S incurred this cost in the expectation that the car 
would be fault free and the agreement would run full term. I dont think this is 
unreasonable. So, I think it is fair he should have this cost returned. 
Putting things right
To put things right Lex Autolease Ltd should reimburse Mr S the £120 fee.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Lex Autolease Ltd should pay Mr S 
£120.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman