DRN-3170487
The complaint
Mr O complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund to 
him the money that he paid to enrol for a university course.
What happened
Mr O used his Tesco Bank credit card to make three payments to a university as part of the 
enrolment fee for a course  he paid £4,000 in April 2020 and £500 and £1,000 in October 
2020. He also made additional payments by other means. He says that he wasnt able to 
enrol for the course and he received a notice from the university in October 2020 which said 
that hed failed to enrol within the enrolment period and hadnt provided acceptable evidence 
of the reason so it was withdrawing sponsorship of his visa.
He claimed a refund of the enrolment fee from the university and then claimed a refund from 
Tesco Bank under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that he hadn't paid 
the full £8,000 fees by the time enrolment closed so the university considered him to be a 
non-enroller and it didn't have evidence that Mr O was entitled to a refund or that there had 
been a breach of contract by the university. Mr O wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr O 
hadnt been able to complete enrolment and request a refund prior to his revised start date 
so he should be entitled to a full refund. He said that there was no evidence that the 
university had refunded Mr O and he was persuaded that he had a valid section 75 claim for 
breach of contract. He recommended that Tesco Bank should refund £5,500 and any 
interest paid on that amount to Mr O and if hed settled the debt, to pay interest on the 
amount that hed paid. 
Tesco Bank has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has 
responded to our investigators recommendations in detail and says, in summary and 
amongst other things, that:
it has spoken with the university and is satisfied that Mr O never met the 
requirements for the enrolment process; 
it has seen no evidence to confirm that he followed the cancellation process in line 
with the terms of his contract; and
he hadnt paid for the course before it started so he wouldn't have been eligible for a 
refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Os complaint about Tesco Bank, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the university and that 
Tesco Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but 
Im not determining the outcome of Mr Os claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
Mr O had a conditional offer to study as an undergraduate at the university and he 
paid the deposit of £4,000 using his Tesco Bank credit card in April 2020  the 
balance of £4,000 was due in September 2020 before the start of the course;
Mr O didnt pay the full balance before the start of the course but he paid a total of 
£1,500 to the university using his Tesco Bank credit card in October 2020 and he 
paid the balance by other means;
the university confirmed that it had received the payment but two days later it sent 
him an e-mail which said:  it looks like our International team are still awaiting a 
number of documents and payment from yourself. I have copied our international 
team who will be able to support with your document checks and what is outstanding 
and also as the course started on [specified date in September] a team who can 
support with late enrolment and if this would be viable;
Mr O contacted the university on its secure internet portal and asked for help 
because enrolment was ending and said that hed .. done all that was required of .. 
him  the university replied to says that it had forwarded his message to its 
admissions team and:  can see that you have met all your conditions so we will 
work on sending you your enrolment link as soon as possible; 
the university also sent him an e-mail which said: I can understand your concern and 
frustration at not receiving the enrolment link to the September intake. Once your 
case is looked at by the admissions team, provided everything is in order, you might 
be able to enrol for the November intake. This would in fact be in your benefit, since 
the September intake sessions started on [specified date in September] and you 
would have hence missed out on many sessions and the first assessment is due end 
of October;
seven days after hed paid the £1,500, Mr O received an e-mail from the university 
which said: You have failed to enrol within the enrolment period and have not 
provided acceptable evidence of the reason for this failure; and it said that it was no 
longer sponsoring his visa for his studies;
Im not persuaded by the evidence that Ive seen that the university had properly 
explained to Mr O what information he was required to provide at that time when hed 
paid the required fees;
Mr O and his brother asked the university for further help with the process but Ive 
seen no evidence to show that any further help was provided to Mr O;Mr O then requested a refund of the money that hed paid to the university but he 
didnt receive a refund and Ive seen no evidence to properly explain why the 
university considered that he wasnt entitled to a refund;
this is a finely balanced complaint with much of Mr Os evidence being in the form of 
screen shots of text message and e-mail exchanges with the university and its clear 
that he hadnt paid the full enrolment fee before the course started  but the 
university told him that hed met all of the conditions and was being considered for 
enrolment for the November intake;
I dont consider that its fair or reasonable in these circumstances for the university to 
have retained the money that it had been paid by Mr O and I consider it to be more 
likely than not that the universitys failure to refund the money to Mr O is a breach of 
contract for which Tesco Bank would be jointly liable under section 75;
Mr O says that hes received a refund of the £2,500 that he paid to the university by 
means other than his Tesco Bank credit card and I dont consider that Tesco Banks 
response to his claim under section 75 has been fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Tesco Bank to rework Mr Os credit card 
account as described below.
Putting things right
I find that Tesco Bank should rework Mr Os credit card account as if £5,500 was refunded to 
his account at the end of October 2020 and to take the other actions described below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and I order Tesco Personal Finance plc, 
trading as Tesco Bank, to:
1. Rework Mr Os credit card account as if £5,500 was refunded to his account at the 
end of October 2020 and, if that puts the account into credit, to pay interest at an 
annual rate of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that the account was in 
credit - it should also refund the credit balance to Mr O.
2. If Mr O has repaid the £5,500 (or any part of it) to Tesco Bank but doesnt have a 
credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that he has repaid at an annual rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from the interest payments 
referred to above. Tesco Bank must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman