DRN-3123352
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the way TSB Bank plc (TSB) handled her request for a refund of a 
holiday she paid for but which was subsequently cancelled. 
What happened
Mrs A purchased a package holiday consisting of flights and accommodation using her TSB 
credit card on 20 October 2019. This was arranged via a travel agent who I shall refer to as 
B. The holiday was due to take place between 20 June 2020 and 5 July 2020. 
 
The travelling party consisted of Mrs A, and two members of her family. To reserve her 
chosen accommodation and flights, Mrs A agreed to pay a deposit of £600 to B. The 
remaining sum of £4,514 was paid on 19 March 2020 again using Mrs As TSB credit card.  
Mrs A said in May 2020, she was informed by B that the travel operator was unable to fulfil 
her booking in response to the growing Covid-19 pandemic and it cancelled her holiday.
In June 2020 Mrs A submitted a claim to TSB under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(section 75) to recover the total sum that she had paid to B for the holiday.
Shortly after this, Mrs A contacted TSB to establish the progress that had been made. Upon 
doing so, she discovered that her claim hadnt been registered and was advised to resubmit 
the details online  to which she agreed.
Around two weeks later, Mrs A contacted TSB to make further enquiries. Having been 
informed that her case was still awaiting review, she registered a formal complaint  arguing 
that TSB had failed to provide adequate information with respect to the process of 
recovering her funds or indeed, the timescales involved.
TSB responded to Mrs As complaint in July 2020. This followed a telephone conversation 
with Mrs A in which TSB acknowledged that her complaint should be upheld and awarded 
compensation of £50 in recognition of the inconvenience she had suffered. In addition, TSB 
agreed to reimburse the cost of telephone calls that she had made, amounting to £24.
Whilst Mrs A said she understood that her claim under Section 75 would be assessed
separately, she accepted the resolution that TSB had proposed and agreed that her
complaint had been resolved. In the meantime, TSB explained that Mrs A should await 
further advice from its credit card disputes team.
A few days later, Mrs A was contacted by the relevant department. Unbeknown to                  
Mrs A however, TSB had chosen to recover her funds via the Chargeback scheme  rather 
than assess the scope of the its liability under Section 75.
TSB temporarily credited the transactions to Mrs As account  pending a response from B.
The interest that had accrued was also temporarily reimbursed, culminating in a credit 
balance being applied to her account.
In the meantime, Mrs A was informed that these transactions would be rendered permanent 
within 45 days  providing that B did not contest her entitlement to a refund, or if it failed to 
respond to the chargeback within this time period. 
Mrs A said she visited the premises of B in August 2020 in an effort to achieve a swifter 
resolution. During her visit, she said B confirmed receipt of TSBs correspondence pertaining 
to the chargeback and accepted that she was entitled to a refund.
The following week, Mrs A received a response from TSB  explaining that B was disputing 
her entitlement to a refund and had offered her a credit note equivalent to the cost of her 
holiday instead. Later that afternoon, Mrs A approached B for clarification and enclosed a 
copy of TSBs remarks.
B refuted this and confirmed that the travel operator had refunded it in full for the cost of the 
holiday so there would have been no need to provide Mrs A with a credit note. It also said 
that chargebacks for the two sums had already been debited by its bank.
Mrs A supplied TSB with a copy of Bs response  together with an invoice showing the two 
sums debiting her account with B at the time the chargebacks were raised. She also asked if 
the transaction for £600 could be transferred into a different account as it was still showing a 
credit balance on her account. 
TSB agreed to the transfer, explaining that B had not defended the chargeback for this 
amount. It said there was no refund on her account for the remaining £4,514 however.
On 3 September 2020 Mrs A said the other £4,514 was owed to TSB and that because 
the merchant has refunded the amount directly, the matter should now be resolved.
Soon after this Mrs A discovered that the sum of £4,514 had been re-posted to
her credit card account and immediately sought an explanation. Upon doing so, TSB 
attributed this to Mrs As e-mail of 3 September and inferred that she had already been 
reimbursed by the merchant directly. So, it said it had re-posted the sum to her credit card 
account. 
This culminated in Mrs A registering a second complaint after the Disputes Team
failed to respond to any of her subsequent correspondence. This included a written
undertaking from B, confirming that it had not refunded her directly and that both sums paid 
to it by Mrs A had been debited from it by TSB via chargeback. 
B went on to explain that had it refunded Mrs A directly, it was obliged to reimburse the 
same credit card that was presented at the point of sale. B said it should therefore, be self-
evident to TSB that this had not occurred.
B also emphasised that it had cooperated fully with the Chargeback request and had offered 
no objections to the recovery of Mrs As funds via this method.
Having reached an impasse, the complaint was subsequently referred to our service. 
Our investigator thought Mrs As complaint should be upheld. He said that TSB should 
refund Mrs A £4,514 as it appeared to him that the chargeback for that amount was 
successful and should not have been withheld by TSB.  
TSB did not agree with the investigator. It said the following which Ive copied below:I feel the important factor on this dispute is that this was a third party charge back 
request, so even if TSB were to take this on today, we wouldnt be able to do a 
charge back because it was a third party. Therefore, the chain had been broken for 
the S75 chargeback and even when we initially refunded Mrs A, we would have 
always taken it back as we dont have the right to claim under S75.
The investigator explained to TSB that chargeback and section 75 are two distinct processes 
with separate considerations and that it appeared to have confused the two in its response. 
He said the fact remained that TSB looked to have successfully charged back £4,514 in July 
2020 but had not paid this to Mrs A.
TSB responded again to say the chargeback for £4,514 was defended by B on the basis it 
had received a refund from the travel operator and was in a position to refund Mrs A directly.  
TSB said that by the time it had become apparent Mrs A still wanted TSB to pursue the 
refund, it was too late to raise it again. 
The investigator then provided TSB with emails he had obtained from Bs bank in which it 
explained that the chargeback for £4,514 was successfully claimed by TSB in July 2020 and 
that B had not challenged this. He invited TSB again to provide evidence that B had 
defended the chargeback. 
TSB responded to say it didnt think this information changed its position and asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between card holders and suppliers or merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant 
card scheme rules. In certain circumstances the process provides a way for TSB to ask for 
the payments Mrs A made to be refunded. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the grounds 
exist and there is a reasonable chance of success.
Raising a claim isnt a guarantee that it will be successful. A merchant can defend the claim 
and if it provides a valid defence  the bank might decide not to take any further action. Or 
the bank can represent the claim if it considers the merchant has raised a weak or invalid 
defence. And if the merchant continues to defend the claim the bank can take matters to an 
arbitration process, whereby the card scheme decides who should get to keep the funds. 
Contrary to what TSB said in its response to the investigators assessment (i.e. that payment 
to an agent would prevent a chargeback being raised) the card scheme would view a travel 
agent as the merchant of record. So, it would assume responsibility for chargebacks if the 
service is not provided - as appeared to be the case here. 
TSB has said it raised chargebacks for both sums of £600 and £4,514. It hasnt said under 
which of the card schemes dispute codes the chargeback was raised. The best chance of success in this case looks to have been the services not received dispute code which 
provides grounds for a chargeback where, among other examples, services have been 
cancelled by a supplier. 
TSB explained that the larger of the two transactions was defended by B on the basis it had 
already provided a credit note to Mrs A. It has also said that it didnt represent the 
chargeback after it was defended because Mrs A asked it to re-debit her account in 
September 2020. 
Weve invited TSB on a number of occasions to provide evidence that B defended the 
chargeback for £4,514, or evidence to show what happened to the money. For example, it 
could have provided some screenshots showing Bs exact response to the chargeback or 
something to show the money was returned to Bs bank. TSB hasnt done this and has 
insisted that its explanation of what happened should be enough in this case to evidence 
what happened.    
Ive thought about this explanation. I note that TSB told us B defended the chargeback for 
£4,514 on the basis it was able to refund Mrs A directly having received a refund from the 
travel operator. But it told Mrs A when it responded to her complaint that the reason it was 
defended was because B had provided a credit note. On another occasion it told us B did 
not defend the chargeback for the smaller amount but on a later occasion it said it had to 
represent this before it was successful. Mindful of the lack of clarity here, along with the lack 
of evidence to corroborate what it has said, Ive not found TSBs explanations convincing. 
I weigh this up against the evidence provided by Mrs A and the evidence obtained by the 
investigator. This includes emails from B and Bs bank explaining that:
a chargeback for £4,514 was debited from Bs account in July 2020; 
B and its bank didnt challenge this;
B has not provided a refund of £4,514 directly to Mrs A, and; 
this sum has not been re-credited to it since.
Ive not seen evidence that persuades me B had offered Mrs A a credit note, or provided a 
refund directly. B has said it never did this. And I think it would have been apparent in the 
communication Ive seen between Mrs A and B if this had happened  but it isnt.  
With everything considered, I find on balance that the sum of £4,514 was successfully 
claimed by TSB from B via chargeback in July 2020.
TSB has said that Mrs A asked it to re-debit her credit card account with the sum of £4,514 
in September 2020 and this was another reason why it didnt provide a refund to her. Ive 
looked at the email in which TSB says she asked it to do this. 
The relevant part of the email that TSB provided us with reads:
The other balance of £4,514 is owed to TSB. It was outstanding on my credit card 
when I opened the dispute. As the merchant has refunded the bank directly, the 
matter should now be resolved.
Please confirm this for me.I don't think this can reasonably be interpreted as Mrs A asking TSB not to pursue the 
chargeback or to re-debit her account. Mrs A had already emailed TSB a few days earlier 
explaining that shed spoken to B and that it had told her that both the disputed amounts 
had been paid to TSB. I find it more likely that Mrs A was simply re-iterating what shed said 
in her previous email i.e. that as far as she was aware B had paid the refund to TSB 
following the chargeback. And, that as a result of this she was querying what had happened 
to this sum.
Just in case there was any doubt about this, I see Mrs A emailed TSB on 8 September 2020 
setting out the following:
I have already sent evidence to yourselves, from (B), confirming that they 
have refunded TSB directly - and have NOT sent any money directly to me!
I want the £4514 balance removed from my credit card with immediate 
effect, as TSB have already been refunded this money directly from (B)
I have no idea what generic account they sent this to at TSB, but I can assure 
you that I have NOT received this money!
I think these points made it abundantly clear that in Mrs As view she had not received a 
refund from B and still considered this was due from TSB. 
Based on what Ive seen, TSB should have realised at this point that the chargeback for 
£4,514 had not been defended by B and that Mrs A still sought a refund of this from TSB. It 
is not fair for TSB to hold on to this money when it seems it was likely successful in its 
pursuit of it from B and when Mrs A hasnt received a refund from B. The money is not TSBs 
to keep.
Even if I didnt think that TSB had the money at that point, and that there was still a 
chargeback to pursue, B had accepted in its communications with Mrs A that she was a due 
a refund. And in Bs view it hadnt defended the chargeback when it was raised. So, If TSB 
had pursued the chargeback more robustly it seems most likely it would have been 
successful in any event. Especially as this appears to be a pretty clear case of services not 
being provided.  
On this basis, I think the fair thing to do here is pay Mrs A £4,514 plus interest from the point 
it re-debited her account and declined to help her further in September 2020. It should also 
remove any adverse information from her credit file that relates to this sum. 
Section 75
Section 75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
I do not find it necessary to consider in this case whether TSB should have met Mrs As 
claim under section 75. I say this because Ive already concluded for other reasons that it 
should pay the sum Mrs A asked it to refund. 
While I cannot make an award of compensation for the way TSB has handled Mrs As 
complaint since its been with this service, I have been very disappointed by the way TSB 
has done so. Since the investigator provided it with evidence from B and Bs bank that the 
chargeback funds were not returned to B, TSB has made very little effort to evidence what 
happened to the chargeback (despite being invited several times to do this). It has made 
arguments that a break in the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship would have prevented it from raising a chargeback which it should know is not correct as it relates to an entirely 
different process. And it has sought to put responsibility for a misunderstanding on its part on 
to Mrs A. 
I can however make an award for any distress or inconvenience that TSB caused Mrs A in 
its handling of her request for a refund.  The investigator thought £150 was fair 
compensation for this. 
Its clear that Mrs A has suffered distress. The sum of money involved was relatively large 
and Mrs A was understandably worried that she would not get it back  along with the impact 
this might have on her finances. She was also put to unnecessary inconvenience when she 
had to keep checking with B whether what TSB had told her was correct  which on most 
occasions it wasnt.  And, TSB accepts it didnt handle Mrs As claim satisfactorily when she 
first raised it.
Taking all of this into account, I think £200 is a fairer reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs A has suffered. TSB can deduct £50 from this amount if it has already 
paid it to Mrs A  which is the compensation it offered to pay to Mrs A for its handling of her 
complaint in June 2020.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, I uphold Mrs As complaint. To put things right TSB 
Bank plc must:
Pay Mrs A £4,514 plus interest at 8% simple per annum* on this amount from 
8 September 2020 until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information about Mrs As credit card account that has 
been recorded with the credit reference agencies during this period.
Pay Mrs A compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
her (less £50 if this has already been paid to Mrs A)
*If TSB Bank Plc considers it should deduct tax from the interest part of my award it should 
provide Mrs A with a tax deduction certificate so that she may claim this back from HMRC if 
applicable
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman