DRN-3301603
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy the Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) placed a block on her bank account 
following a deposit of funds from her fathers account. Ms K is unhappy at how the bank 
dealt with the matter and says this caused significant unnecessary distress.
What happened
Ms K complains BoS put a block on her account following a payment from her fathers 
account of £25,000. 
Ms K says her father regularly forgot his PIN and needed access to his money so he 
transferred £25,000 to her account so she could withdraw it on his behalf. 
Ms K says she tried to use an ATM to withdraw some money from her account and her card 
was swallowed. Ms K contacted BoS who told her she would need to go into the branch with 
relevant ID in order to remove the block from her account. 
Ms K says she went into the branch and was told the account would remain blocked until 
BoS had spoken with her father. Ms K says her father didnt want to explain to the bank why 
he needed access to his own funds and so in order to get the blocks removed from the 
account Ms K agreed to transfer the funds back to her fathers account. 
Ms K says she was told the reason for the block in the first place was because her father 
hadnt used online banking in some years and the transfer to her account was made online. 
She said her father used online banking regularly in order to transfer money between his 
various accounts and to send money to other members of the family.
Ms K says another reason the bank told her the block was put on her account was because 
a member of their family had been into the branch to raise concerns about the fathers 
account and funds. Ms K says the person who raised a concern has a criminal record and 
she isnt happy the bank took their word over hers. 
When the funds were returned to her fathers account the block on the account was lifted. 
But Ms K remained dissatisfied with the service she received and so she complained to BoS. 
BoS said the block was placed on Ms Ks account on 22 April 2021. It said it did this 
because following the £25,000 deposit into the account it received information from a relative 
who told the bank there was a family dispute and concerns over the fathers funds. BoS said 
the block was applied to stop any withdrawals and safeguard the £25,000 until the dispute 
was resolved. 
BoS said the local branch agreed to lift the block if they spoke with the father or if Ms K was 
happy to transfer the funds back. It said the funds were returned and therefore the block was 
lifted. BoS explained it has a duty of care to each customer and must act on information 
provided until the matter is resolved. 
Ms K wasnt happy with the response received from the bank and so referred her complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into the issues raised by Ms K. She said she thought 
it was reasonable for BoS to have frozen the account until the matter could be resolved. She 
said the bank has a duty of care to all of its customers and if it has a concern about a 
transaction it is obliged to act. 
Ms K wasnt happy with the investigators view and so the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. I know Ms K will be disappointed by my 
decision but I hope my reasoning goes some way to help her understand why.
I appreciate Ms K has expressed concerns about her fathers account, but this complaint is 
about the action BoS took in respect of her account and Ill only be commenting on that in 
my decision
Ms K isnt happy with how she was treated by BoS and says she was made to feel like a 
thief when she was only trying to help her father. I can appreciate Ms Ks desire to help her 
father and support him in this way.  And its clear the situation has been very upsetting for 
her. I empathise with the situation she found herself in. 
Its important to note my role here is to look at whether BoS acted in a fair and reasonable 
way. And if it didnt, I need to look at what it did to resolve things or needs to do to put things 
right.
Like all banks BoS is strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet its legal 
and regulatory obligations. Bs responsibilities include a duty of care towards its customers 
and indeed others to safeguard against funds potentially being used improperly.. To be 
clear, I am not saying the funds in this case were to be used improperly. If BoS didnt 
sometimes act, such as refusing to process payment requests or restrict accounts, it would 
be failing to fulfil its regulatory requirements 
Ms K says the bank took someone elses word over hers. I appreciate this was particularly 
distressing to Ms K. But having received notification of a potential dispute regarding the 
transfer, the bank had a duty to act to safeguard the funds whilst the situation was being 
investigated. I can see from the file that once the funds were transferred back to the fathers 
account the block was lifted. The bank also confirmed that if her father could explain why he 
needed the funds the restrictions could be removed. So it hasnt acted unreasonably here 
and gave Ms K and her father the opportunity to remove the block by taking those steps. I 
understand Ms K feels her integrity was in question but Im satisfied the bank was acting 
under its duty of care towards its customers rather than something personal.
Im satisfied BoS had valid concerns over the payment into Ms Ks account. Again this 
doesnt mean those concerns were found to be correct, it means it had a reasonable basis 
for acting in the way it did. It took steps to protect the funds in Ms Ks account until the 
situation was resolved. And while I appreciate Ms K will be very disappointed by what I have 
to say, Im satisfied the action BoS took was fair and reasonable. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman