DRN-1506029
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S took out an MPPI policy with a joint mortgage in 1996. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy which covered Mr S. So sometimes I will only refer to Mr S, but I will 
refer to Mr and Mrs S where appropriate.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. They added that Mrs Ss savings and Mr 
Ss employee benefits were enough to make the PPI unsuitable.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss and Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold their complaint because:
I think Bank of Scotland probably made Mr S and Mrs S aware that they had a choice 
about buying the MPPI, and that they chose to take it. I say this because the policy 
was tailored to cover Mr S only, so I think its most likely there was a conversation 
about PPI for them to make that decision  although I can understand why they may 
not be able to remember this. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr S and Mrs S, and it seems to have 
been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr S 
said he could rely on his wifes savings, but the savings might have been used for 
something else or their circumstances might have changed so they might not have 
been able to use the savings for the mortgage. So I dont think Mrs Ss savings made 
the policy any less suitable. Mr S said he had good employee benefits but as I think 
they wanted PPI to cover Mr S, I dont think his employee benefits made the policy 
any less suitable.
I think Bank of Scotland could have explained the cost of the policy better than it did. 
But even if it had, I think they chose to have PPI so I think Mr S and Mrs S would still 
have bought it. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But Mr S doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
 Ive taken into account Mr Ss and Mrs Ss comments, including what they said about Mr Ss 
employee benefits and Mrs Ss savings. But these points dont change my conclusion.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman