The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the amount offered by Tesco Underwriting Limited in 
settlement of a claim they made under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S suffered an escape of water at their home which damaged their kitchen. After 
fixing the leak, they made a claim to Tesco.
Tesco arranged for its loss adjuster to visit the property. After receiving the loss adjusters 
report, it accepted the claim. The loss adjuster drew up a schedule of repair work.
Mr and Mrs S noted that the proposed schedule of work included replacement of three 
kitchen units which had been damaged beyond repair. They said that while these may have 
been the only items damaged, to replace them individually would mean they would no longer 
match the existing, undamaged units. They therefore asked that the specification be updated 
to include the replacement of all kitchen units.
Tesco agreed to change the schedule of work to allow for the replacement of all kitchen units 
but explained that it would only pay 50% towards the cost of replacing and installing the 
undamaged units.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy at this offer. They considered Tesco should meet the full cost of 
the kitchen replacement. They provided a quote for this from their preferred kitchen supplier. 
They also considered the schedule didnt allow a sufficient amount to replace the floor tiles 
with tiles of an equivalent standard. They complained to Tesco about these issues and said 
they believed they should also be compensated for the poor service theyd received.
Tesco issued a final response letter. It maintained its decision to offer only 50% of the cost of 
replacing and fitting undamaged kitchen units and said its cash settlement offer was 
therefore £4,520. It thought the amount allowed for floor tiles was reasonable but agreed to 
review this if Mr and Mrs S were to provide evidence of a higher cost being incurred. It 
offered £150 compensation for any service issues.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy at Tescos response. They referred their complaint to us. They 
still considered that Tesco should meet the full cost of replacing their kitchen (except where 
they had chosen to make upgrades). They said Tesco had not met the full cost of the floor 
tiles. And they considered its offer of compensation to be inadequate.
I initially issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold the 
complaint. I explained that I considered Tescos offer to pay 50% towards the cost of 
replacing and fitting the undamaged matching units was fair. I further explained that 
I considered its actual cash settlement was fair and reflected how much it would cost Tesco 
to carry out the work.
DRN-2781739After receiving further comments from Mr and Mrs S, I issued a second provisional decision 
explaining why I was now minded to uphold the complaint. My findings were as follows:
Mr and Mrs Ss continued objection to the settlement offer (excluding the floor tiles) is now 
purely on the basis that they dont believe this reflects the cost to Tesco if it were to 
complete the work using its own contractors.
I said in my [first] provisional decision that the loss adjuster had produced a detailed 
schedule of the work required and that I had no grounds for concluding this was lacking in 
any way. Mr and Mrs S havent disputed this.
However, while I am satisfied that Tesco scoped the insured work correctly, I noted the 
amount (excluding VAT) it would have had to pay its own contractor to do the work was 
£6,213. Tesco reduced this by 20% to £4,970 before deducting the £450 policy excess to 
arrive at the cash settlement of £4,520. I asked Tesco why it applied this 20% reduction and 
it said it was because it believed its contractor would face various extra costs which would 
not be faced by a smaller contractor likely to be used by Mr and Mrs S.
I dont find Tescos argument persuasive. Some of the reasons cited as to why its contractor 
would be more expensive (for example, the need to comply with health and safety 
regulations, having to quote for work which they dont end up doing, having to cover 
overheads) would seem to apply to almost any contractor. The policy states that where a 
consumer requests a cash settlement, Tesco will not pay more than the amount it would cost 
to do the repair using its own contractors. It doesnt say Tesco may pay less than this. I think 
it was unfair for Tesco to apply the 20% reduction to its contractors costs when calculating 
the cash settlement.
This means that Tescos initial cash settlement offer should have been £5,763 (£6,213 less 
the £450 policy excess). This was based on a replacement floor tile cost of £30 per square 
metre (excluding VAT). Mr and Mrs S provided a quote for a replacement tile which they say 
is equivalent to the existing tile. The copy I have of the quote is illegible but Tesco appears 
to accept it is for a tile costing £52.48 per square metre. I presume this is inclusive of VAT so 
the net cost would be £43.73 a square metre. Given that 13 square metres would be 
needed, this would mean that the cash settlement offer would need to increase by £178.49 
to reflect the higher cost of the tile. I consider it reasonable that Tesco increase the cash 
settlement accordingly to make it a total of £5,941.49.
Tesco has confirmed that the cash settlement is exclusive of VAT and that it will reimburse 
Mr and Mrs S this upon evidence that the cost has been incurred. I consider this is a 
reasonable approach to take and is normal within the insurance industry. However, Tesco 
has admitted that it never made Mr and Mrs S aware that the settlement was exclusive of 
VAT and that they would be able to reclaim this cost. As a result, Mr and Mrs S were misled 
into thinking the proposed settlement was inclusive of VAT.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs S were originally at fault in this dispute in that they made an 
unreasonable demand that Tesco should meet the full cost of replacing their undamaged 
matching kitchen items. However, I consider that Tesco has since handled this claim poorly 
in that it offered a cash settlement which was over £1,400 too low and furthermore failed to 
make clear its approach over the VAT issue. Tesco has already offered £150 compensation 
for its poor handling of the claim. However, in view of its failings above I consider it should 
increase this by a further £250 to make total compensation of £400.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my second provisional 
decision.Mr and Mrs S accepted my second provisional decision. Tesco said it had no further 
evidence or arguments to put forward. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has raised any objection to it, Im satisfied that my second 
provisional decision should stand.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my second provisional decision and above, my final decision is that 
I uphold this complaint.
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to do the following:
increase its cash settlement offer to £5,941.49 (exclusive of VAT and net of the policy
excess);
upon receipt of appropriate evidence, reimburse Mr and Mrs S the VAT costs they may
incur on this settlement amount; and
pay Mr and Mrs S £400 compensation (less any compensation it has already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman