DRN-3777000
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money hes lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Mr Z says he saw a private advert for a vehicle on a well-known online marketplace. He paid 
£6,500 for the vehicle via bank transfer on 27 September 2016 (the payment), but the car 
wasnt delivered to him as arranged. He subsequently discovered that the vehicle didnt 
really exist, and he had been scammed.
Mr Z has complained that:
He visited a HSBC branch to report the scam on the morning after the payment was 
made, but the bank failed to act quickly to recover his funds.
The payment was an unusual and out of character transaction, but HSBC didnt 
intervene with it.
HSBC has argued that there was no reason to intervene with the payment because Mr Z 
pre-notified the bank of the transaction he intended to make on 26 September 2016  he 
explained the purpose of the transfer (recorded on HSBCs system as a vehicle purchase via 
an online marketplace) and where the funds had come from.
HSBCs records also show that Mr Z raised a complaint with the bank about this matter on   
5 December 2016  he said hed been to a branch to discuss the scam and hed found the 
staff to be unhelpful.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Zs complaint. They said they wouldnt have expected 
HSBC to intervene with the payment given that Mr Z had pre-notified the bank that he was 
going to instruct it, and HSBC couldnt stop or cancel the payment after it had been made.
In responding to our investigator, Mr Z denied contacting HSBC on 26 September 2016. He 
said that he contacted the bank on 27 September 2016 for advice on how to make an online 
transfer. The bank explained what he had to do but didnt ask him for the purpose of the 
payment or give any other advice.
Mr Zs complaint about HSBC has now been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 26 September 2022. Ill set out my findings below.
HSBC has said that the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) was not in place in 2016 when the payment was made, so its requirements 
are not applicable. That is correct. But thats not the only consideration here.
Its common ground that Mr Z authorised the payment. So, even though he didnt intend to 
pay a fraudster, the payment was authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. 
HSBC had an obligation to follow Mr Zs payment instruction, and Mr Z is presumed liable for 
his loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that HSBC 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
HSBC has said that it spoke to Mr Z about the payment on 26 September 2016, but Mr Z 
says he spoke to the bank on 27 September 2016. I dont think it matters on which date the 
conversation took place. Whats important here is that its not in dispute that the parties 
spoke about the payment before it was instructed. So, HSBC was on notice that Mr Z 
intended to make a relatively high value transfer out of his account to a new payee, and the 
bank says it knew that the payment was to purchase a vehicle via an online marketplace. 
Ive looked at Mr Zs account activity in the six months leading up to the scam and I consider 
that the payment was unusual and out of character  Mr Z didnt tend to make high value 
payments at the time. I appreciate that the payment may not have triggered HSBCs fraud 
detection systems when it was instructed because the bank had been pre-notified of it, but I 
cant ignore that the bank did have a conversation with Mr Z about the payment, and I think 
it's reasonable to expect HSBC to have asked some further questions about it at that time.   
Theres no available call recording or detailed contemporaneous note about what was said 
during the relevant conversation for me to consider. I asked the bank whether it wouldve 
warned Mr Z about the risk of scams during the call given that it says it knew he was paying 
for a second-hand vehicle advertised on an online marketplace, and vehicle scams are not 
uncommon. HSBC replied that the CRM Code wasnt in force at the time. It did not provide 
any evidence to show that it appropriately questioned or advised Mr Z about the risks of 
financial harm. So, I cant be satisfied that HSBC didnt miss an opportunity to appropriately 
question and educate Mr Z and/or prevent the scam and Mr Zs loss.
Theres no suggestion that Mr Z was coached by the fraudster, so I think he wouldve 
spoken freely if HSBC had asked him some questions about the payment. And I think its 
most likely that the scam wouldve become apparent at this point. I consider that HSBC had 
or ought to have had a good enough understanding of how vehicle scams work  including 
that fraudsters often purport to sell vehicles which dont exist or dont belong to them on 
online marketplaces and that sales often go ahead without the fraudster allowing a 
customer the chance to inspect the vehicle they want to buy  to have been able to identify 
the risk of harm from fraud if it had asked him some probing questions.
If HSBC had done enough, I think it would most likely have been obvious to the bank and  
Mr Z that there was a risk of financial harm, and the scam wouldve unfolded without the payment being made. Of course, HSBC could also have declined to make the payment 
altogether if Mr Z had still wanted to go ahead with it despite its warnings, and given the 
circumstances here, I think it wouldve been reasonable for it to do so.
I wouldnt have expected HSBC to interrogate Mr Z, and I acknowledge that the main 
perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I think appropriate questions should reasonably 
have been asked in this case, and if they had been, and Mr Z had been appropriately 
educated about vehicle scams, he wouldnt have wanted to go ahead (at least without 
completing more checks to protect himself) or, if he did, HSBC couldve declined to make the 
payment. Either way, I think the scam wouldve been prevented and Mr Z wouldnt have 
suffered a loss.
I might have concluded that it was appropriate for Mr Z to bear some of the responsibility for 
his loss in this case because he doesnt appear to have made any real attempts to protect 
himself from financial harm  he says he made the payment on the sole basis that the advert 
he saw on the online marketplace looked convincing. But from what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded that HSBC did enough to recover Mr Zs funds, or that the full loss wouldnt have 
been recovered if it had done so.
HSBC doesnt have a written record of Mr Zs branch visit on the morning of                        
28 September 2016. But Mr Z has been consistent throughout his testimony and I have no 
reason to doubt that the visit took place when he says it did. I also note that the complaint  
Mr Z raised with the bank on 5 December 2016 refers to the branch visit. I wouldve 
expected the bank to act swiftly to try to recover any of Mr Zs funds remaining in the 
beneficiary account upon being notified of the scam, by contacting the receiving bank within 
a reasonable timeframe. Theres no suggestion that it did so, and theres a strong possibility 
that some or all of Mr Zs funds couldve been recovered if it had considering how quickly he 
reported the scam to the bank. In the circumstances, I think its fair for HSBC to reimburse 
Mr Zs full loss on this occasion  I cant rule out that his full loss would not have been 
recouped had the bank acted as I wouldve expected it to.
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive provisionally decided to uphold this complaint and 
instruct HSBC to:
Reimburse Mr Zs full loss; plus
Pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. Neither party provided any new information 
or evidence for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional findings, and neither party provided any new 
information or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Reimburse Mr Zs full loss; plus
Pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman