DRN-2127435
The complaint
Mrs C complains that HFC Bank Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs C opened a credit card account with HFC in 1994. Around the same time, she took out a 
PPI policy to protect her monthly credit card repayments against accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said, in summary, that she 
didnt think HFC had mis-sold the PPI to Mrs C. And she also explained that HFC had 
already paid back everything Mrs C had paid for the PPI. So there was nothing more for it to 
pay her. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me for final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs C says that she applied for the credit card in a sales room, and that she felt 
pressured into taking out the card. She says she wasnt ever aware that PPI had been 
added to her account. 
Due to the time thats passed since Mrs C opened the credit card account, HFC no 
longer has copies of the paperwork that Mrs C signed at the time. I dont think thats 
surprising or unreasonable, given that the sale took place so long ago. 
In situations like this, where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide 
what I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have. Having 
done so, Id normally make my decision as to whether the PPI was mis-sold.
But in this case, Im satisfied from the evidence that HFC has provided that Mrs C was 
only ever charged £0.09 in total for the PPI. That was within a couple of months of Mrs C 
opening the account. HFC refunded £0.90 to Mrs Cs account the following month, and 
no further PPI premiums were charged after that.
The credit card account remained open for some years. It isnt clear from the available 
evidence why no further PPI premiums were charged. But based on the evidence 
provided, Im satisfied that they werent. And as the full amount Mrs C paid for the PPI 
has been refunded, Mrs C hasnt lost out financially as a result of the PPI being set up on 
her account. 
I realise that Mrs C feels strongly that she was pressured into opening the account. As 
the adjudicator explained to Mrs C, pressure is a very subjective area, and I couldnt 
fairly decide that she was unfairly pressured into taking the PPI based purely on her 
recollection of events that took place more than 25 years ago. But, as it is, I don't need to 
make a finding on whether the PPI was mis-sold, because doing so would make no 
difference to the outcome.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C. But as I said above, Im satisfied that she didnt suffer any 
financial loss because of the PPI sale. And this means that I cant uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman