DRN-3138216
The complaint
Mr F complains that Phoenix Life Limited declined his critical illness insurance claim. 
In raising this complaint Mr F has been helped by his wife but, for ease of reference, Ill only 
refer to Mr F.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 1999 Mr F took out a Serious Illness Survival Plan (policy) with Phoenix Life, which 
provides about £63,000 of critical illness cover. After undergoing an aortic valve replacement 
operation in August 2020, Mr F made a critical illness claim under the policy.
Phoenix Life declined the claim. In short, they said:
The medical procedure Mr F underwent isnt included in the critical illness definitions 
outlined in the policy. 
While the policy does include coronary artery by-pass graft as a covered condition, 
theres nothing to evidence from the medical information theyd received that a by-
pass graft was also done. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidelines do say that all critical illness 
cover must include cancer, heart attack and stroke  which Mr Fs policy does. But 
the guidelines also say insurers may incorporate some, all or none of the [other] 
conditions listed, and which it goes on to provide the wording for definitions that 
should be used if the conditions are covered by the policy.
They noted Mr F was on medication for heart disease but there wasnt any medical 
evidence to show hed been diagnosed as having a heart attack  as defined in the 
policy terms and the ABI guidelines. 
A complaint was raised but Phoenix Life didnt change their position. As Mr F remained 
dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Phoenix Life had fairly declined the claim. She acknowledged the 
severity of Mr Fs condition and the procedure he underwent but, from the available medical 
records, she didnt think Mr F had suffered a listed critical illness that was covered under the 
policy. So, she thought Phoenix Life had acted in line with the policy terms when considering 
the claim. 
Mr F disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
Before I go on to explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to clarify that Im 
looking at Phoenix Lifes consideration of Mr Fs claim here. So, I wont be commenting on 
concerns Mr F has since raised about Phoenix Life not providing him with new policy 
documentation when they took over the policy from the original insurer. Mr F should raise 
these concerns with Phoenix Life first and, if he remains dissatisfied with their response, he 
can refer the matter to our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr F that I dont underestimate the severity of his condition or the impact its 
had on him. I accept that his condition was life threatening and of a serious nature. But, what 
I must consider here is whether Phoenix Life acted fairly  and in line with the policy terms  
when considering the claim. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr F but, for the 
reasons Ill explain, I think they did. 
The policy terms set out the cover provided by Phoenix Life to Mr F. This says:
4.3 Critical Illness Benefit
4.3.1 The Company will pay the Critical Illness Benefit specified in the Schedule or, 
where applicable, the amount specified in the Special Provisions, if:
(a) the Life Assured is diagnosed as suffering from any of the Critical Illness Events 
or undergoes any of surgical procedures defined in Appendix A
Essentially, this means Phoenix Life is contractually required to pay the sum assured to Mr F 
in the event hes diagnosed with one of the listed, and defined, critical illnesses. Ive 
therefore looked at whether thats the case here. 
The policy terms include coronary artery by-pass surgery and heart attack as listed critical 
illnesses. These are defined, respectively, as:
The undergoing of open heart surgery on the advice of a Consultant Cardiologist to 
correct narrowing or blockage of one or more coronary arteries with by-pass grafts 
but excluding balloon angioplasty, laser relief or any other procedures.
And;
The death of a portion of heart muscle as a result of inadequate bloody supply as 
evidenced by an episode of typical chest pain, new electrocardiographic changes 
and by elevation of cardiac enzymes. The evidence must be consistent with the 
diagnosis of heart attack.
Ive looked at the medical records Phoenix Life obtained as part of their consideration of 
Mr Fs claim. It confirms Mr F had an aortic valve replacement. But it doesnt evidence a by-
pass graft being carried out, or that he suffered a heart attack (by way of death of a portion 
of heart muscle etc.). And heart valve replacement isnt a listed critical illness. It therefore 
follows that Mr F hasnt been diagnosed with a covered critical illness as listed under the 
policy.Im aware Mr F has said that heart valve replacement is included in the ABI guide to 
minimum standards for critical illness cover. But, while the ABI guide does include a 
definition for heart valve replacement, it is included under chapter 4  which sets out the 
required minimum definitions of further conditions that may or may not be included in the 
critical illness cover. I also think its relevant to note that the ABI Statement of Best Practice 
for Critical Illness Cover (April 1999), which is applicable for the year the policy was sold, 
likewise refers to heart valve replacement or repair as one of the additional conditions 
rather than one of the core conditions. So, there isnt  and wasnt at the time the policy 
was sold - a requirement for the insurer to include heart valve replacement or repair as a 
covered condition. And, in Mr Fs case, it unfortunately isnt a listed condition under his 
policy.  
Ive also noted that Mr F says the consequences of his condition and the operation he 
underwent can be equivalent, or even more serious, than coronary artery by-pass surgery. 
And that he feels Phoenix Life has too narrowly defined both a heart attack and coronary 
artery by-pass surgery. This is because he had a heart incident that was life threatening and 
if he hadnt had the valve replacement he wouldve died. Hes also referred to a case study 
on our website which he feels supports his complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr F has said. At which point, Id again like to say that I 
dont doubt the severity of his condition or what hes gone through as a result of it. But I 
disagree that Phoenix Life has too narrowly defined both a heart attack and coronary by-
pass surgery within the policy terms. I say this because the above definitions in his policy are 
the same as those provided in the ABI Statement of Best Practice for Critical Illness Cover 
(April 1999). And there is a separate definition for heart valve replacement or repair as Ive 
already explained. 
We consider each case on its individual merit. And so, while Ive noted Mr Fs views about 
the case study on our website, I think his complaint is different. The case study relates to an 
insurer declining a claim by applying a formulaic approach to the percentage in which 
arteries were blocked, for a condition that was covered, which we didnt think was fair. 
Whereas, in Mr Fs case, the condition being claimed for isnt listed as a covered critical 
illness. So, while I accept the seriousness of the operation Mr F underwent and the 
associated risks/consequences involved, I dont consider his claim was declined due to the 
policy definitions being too narrow or unfair. It follows that I consider it reasonable for 
Phoenix Life to have applied them when considering Mr Fs claim. 
I appreciate Mr F believed hed be covered for all life threatening heart conditions. But, while 
I sympathise with his situation, insurance doesnt cover every eventuality. It only covers 
specified events and some policies are more comprehensive than others. Naturally, the level 
of cover is often related to the amount of risk the insurer is willing to accept and the premium 
cost - more comprehensive cover will typically cost more. Unfortunately, Mr Fs policy 
doesnt include his condition as a covered critical illness. As Mr F agreed to the terms of the 
policy when he took it out, I think its fair for Phoenix life to assess his claim against them.  
I know this isnt the outcome Mr F is hoping for. But, for the reasons Ive set out, I think 
Phoenix Life has acted fairly and in line with terms of his policy by declining the claim. 
On a final note, Mr F has suggested that he may go back to his consultant(s) to obtain 
further medical evidence in support of his claim. Should Mr F obtain further information that 
he considers demonstrates hes suffered one of the covered critical illnesses  as defined 
within the policy  he should give this to Phoenix Life for their consideration. While cover 
remains in place, Phoenix Life should consider any further claim submission accordingly. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman