DRN-2177997
The complaint
Mr C complains that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC)) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Both Mr C and SNC 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision saying that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld in full. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part of 
this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision
Mr C was given a SafetyNet credit facility in November 2018. This was a running credit
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net
amount of the customers choosing.
The initial credit limit provided to Mr C in November 2018 was £150. SNC has told us the
limit had increased to £480 by July 2019.
SNC agreed that Mr Cs complaint was partially valid and offered to write off the facilitys
outstanding balance of £537.60. Mr C didnt accept this offer and referred his complaint to
this service. It seems Mr C has had some financial difficulties because when he referred his
complaint, there was still an outstanding balance on the facility, that needed to be repaid.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Cs complaint. He didnt think it was wrong for SNC to
grant the facility. But he considered SNC shouldnt have lent to Mr C after he drew down on
21 January 2019. The adjudicator considered that the pattern of borrowing suggested Mr C
was struggling to manage his finances and had become reliant on the facility and so wasnt
in a position to take on any further advances.
SNC didnt agree with the assessment. SNC says that the facility isnt intended to be used
as a one-off short-term loan but more like a credit card where the outstanding balance is
more important than the number of individual uses. SNC also considered the facility was
affordable and that further drawdown activity following repayments wasnt a cause for
concern. SNC didnt refer to the previous offer when it replied.
In response to the assessment Mr C, through his representative, said that:
at the time of the advances he was struggling with a gambling habit;
SNC had access to his bank accounts and therefore shouldve known that he had a
gambling problem and not offered any credit;
his bank statements and credit report shouldve alerted SNC to a reliance on credit to
pay his expenditure.
So, I understand both Mr C and SNC disagree with the adjudicators assessment. And as no
agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
the regulations in place when Mr C was given the SafetyNet facility
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr C this facility when
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant regulatory
rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section
of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance
.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a
consumer a loan of this type. And it says a firm had to consider:
the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely
impact the customers financial situation as well as the ability of the customer to make 
repayments as they fall due over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such an 
agreement which is an open-end agreement (like Mr Cs Safety Net facility), to make 
payments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in 
mind when considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2) says:
a firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC
5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability
to repay the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
The guidance didnt specify the exact nature of the checks, but it did require lenders checks
to be proportionate. And any checks had to consider a number of different things, such as
how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put simply, the
lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the
lending.
SNC was also required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably make his repayments not just whether the repayments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The repayments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Mr C could sustainably
make his repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. There may be
situations for example where consumers have shown signs of financial difficulty, calling into
question their ability to sustain repayments.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to do before
agreeing to Mr Cs SafetyNet facility.
what happened when the facility was granted?
SNC says it reviewed Mr Cs bank transaction data prior to the facility being approved. SNC
has provided a copy of the statements it appears to have looked at which cover a period of
90 days before the facility was approved. It considered what it saw in the bank statements
together with the results of the credit checks. Having done so, SNC was satisfied Mr C
wasnt having trouble meeting his existing commitments and would be able to maintain the
facility he was offered.
Looking at Mr Cs statements Im not able to see any income from the employer he
mentioned in his application. What I can see is a regular payment which appears to be
universal credit of around £763 per month - which is considerably less than the net monthly
declared income of £2,000. No other monthly income was mentioned by Mr C in his
application although from what I can see he did seem to have some income coming into his
account from other sources each month.
Even so, Mr Cs overall income was less than his regular monthly outgoings such as his rent,
council tax, utilities, TV, food and travel costs. I can also see that Mr C was spending quite
significant amounts on betting transactions. From what I can see these were around, or
exceeded, the payment he received in benefits.
It appears Mr C was also struggling to pay some of his creditors and SNC should reasonably
have been aware of this through its review of his bank statements. Each month Mr C was
making payments of £1 to five / six creditors, including a loan provider and credit card
companies. I think the number of regular £1 payments was unusual and as a minimum SNC
should, as a responsible lender, have considered this further. From what I can see through
Mr Cs own credit report, its likely further checks wouldve revealed Mr C had three
defaulted credit accounts in 2018 with outstanding balances that needed to be repaid.
In addition to this, Mr Cs statements show several unpaid direct debits in October 2018. I
think this was a clear indication that Mr C was in financial difficulties as he was unable to
meet his other repayments when they were due. Which, CONC 1.3 points out, is a sign that
a customer could be having financial difficulties.
There was no real change in Mr Cs income and expenditure in November 2018 before the
facility was granted on 20 November, including further payments to betting sites. And on the
same day the facility was granted Mr C received £300 from a short-term lender, suggesting
his finances didnt seem to be improving.
Looking at all of this together, I think that Mr Cs circumstances suggested that he was
struggling to maintain control of his finances. I think this is something that SNC ought
reasonably to have been aware of through his bank statements. As a result, there was a
clear risk that the facility wasnt going to be repaid in an affordable and sustainable manner.
Im therefore intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint as I dont think SNC shouldve granted the
facility.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, both SNC and Mr C didnt raise any new points or 
provide any new information for me to consider. I therefore, see no reason to depart from the 
findings that I previously made. So, I still think SNC was wrong to have provided Mr C with 
his facility. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about the offer that SNC made in the FRL. It isnt clear, because we dont have
the full transaction data for the facility, whether the offer proposed by SNC is better for Mr C,
or the redress that Im recommending. And Ive kept this in mind when thinking about what
SNC needs to do to put things right. To put things right for Mr C, SNC should:
remove any unpaid interest fees and charges from the current outstanding balance 
and then refund all the interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Cs facility from the 
outset of the facility;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date
they were paid by Mr C to the date of settlement*;
deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the above 
refund is sufficient to repay what Mr C owes, then the remainder of the refund should 
then be paid directly to Mr C.
If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to repay the outstanding principal, then
given what SNC has already offered to settle the complaint, it shouldnt ask Mr C to
repay any outstanding balance once the above refund has applied.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file from the outset of the
facility.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint in full.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman