DRN-2938149
The complaint
Ms C complained because Ageas Insurance limited said it would only pay for the damaged 
section of carpet in settlement of a contents insurance claim. 
What happened
Damage was caused to the lounge room carpet when Ms Cs son dropped paint onto it. Ms 
C made a claim to Ageas. It agreed to pay to replace the damaged section of carpet. 
However, Ms Cs home has a connected lounge and dining room with the same carpet 
throughout. Ageas did not agree to pay for the carpet to be replaced in the dining room area. 
Ms C says the lounge and dining area is divided by an archway and doors, but the doors are 
rarely closed. She says the dcor and carpet are the same throughout and it is used as one 
space. 
Ageas says the terms of Ms Cs policy mean it is only required to pay for the carpet in the 
room, or area, where the damage happened. It felt the rooms were separate and so 
maintained its offer to pay for the damage in the lounge area only. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. He concluded that as the two rooms were separated 
by an archway and doors, it was fair for Ageas to rely on the policy terms and treat the two 
areas separately. He did not uphold the complaint. 
Ms C asked for an ombudsmans review. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Ms Cs complaint. Heres what I said:
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding Ms Cs claim Ageas has relied on the following policy term:
Matching Carpets: If you have a matching carpet or other floor covering in more than one 
room or area, we treat each room or area as separate. We will only pay for the damage to 
the carpet or floor covering in the room or area where the damage happened.
I have seen photos of the lounge and dining room area. There is an archway with double 
doors that can close-off the space. However, I note there is no door bar in place that 
clearly separates the rooms, and there is no join or break in the carpet. Ms C explains the 
doors are rarely closed, and both areas are decorated in the same way. This can be seen 
from the photos. In my view it is reasonable to accept that the space is used as one area.    
If this claim was settled as suggested by Ageas, Ms C would have two separate carpets. It 
is unlikely these would match, and there would be a clear join between the two. 
Alternatively, Ms C will have to pay towards part of the carpet being replaced, if, it is to 
remain as one continuous matching run of carpet. I dont think it is fair for Ageas to rely on 
the term it has done, in these circumstances. 
I must also look beyond the strict meaning of the terms and conditions and take into 
account what is fair and reasonable in this scenario. If only part of the carpet is replaced 
this will, in my view, significantly impact how the area looks aesthetically. I dont think this 
would be a fair outcome. 
The general principle when settling a claim is that the insurer places the policyholder back 
into the position they were in immediately before the claim. If Ageas is only going to pay to 
replace the carpet in the area where the damage occurred, I dont think this puts Ms C 
back into the same position she was in. Thats because prior to the damage she had one 
continuous carpet. And after the claim  if its settled as Ageas intends  she wont have. 
On that basis, I dont think its fair in this instance for Ageas to rely on the clause 
mentioned, to restrict its liability to the area where the damage occurred only.
I said I was intending to:
require Ageas Insurance Limited to settle Ms Cs claim and pay the cost of replacing 
the full carpet.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Ageas didnt provide a response.
Ms C confirmed that she accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms C accepted my findings and Ageas didnt respond, my final decision is the same as 
my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
In summary I didnt think it was a fair outcome for Ageas to only replace part of carpet 
because of the way the area was being used, with one continuous run and matching dcor 
throughout. I thought a fair outcome was to replace the carpet in full. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Cs 
complaint and Ageas Insurance Limited must: 
settle Ms Cs claim and pay the cost of replacing the full carpet.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman