DRN-3060651
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op  
Bank). Hes unhappy with the service he received when he asked Co-op Bank to help him 
obtain a refund for a holiday that didnt proceed.
What happened
Mr M paid a deposit of £250 in September 2019 for a cruise holiday. He paid the deposit 
using his Co-op Bank credit card, with the balance due nearer the date of departure. 
The travel company entered administration and the cruise didnt take place and Mr M was 
advised by the administrators to contact Co-op Bank to recover the money hed paid as a 
deposit. Mr M told us:
On 27 July 2020, he submitted a claim to the bank under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act;
his claim was meticulously presented with all the correct documentation and 
information to make the case easy for the bank to process;
he received a standard acknowledgment from the bank on 31 July, telling him of the 
list of items hed need to provide for a Section 75 claim;
hed already provided everything that was required, and he was annoyed that the 
banks letter suggested he didnt know what was required and that he hadnt provided 
the supporting information;
he raised a complaint with Co-op Bank about the wording of their letter and also 
complained that it had used his credit card number as the complaint reference 
instead of allocating it a proper reference number;
the banks final response told him hed misread the letter; its tone was defensive and 
condescending, and it was wrong of it to issue a final response when the matter of 
the actual refund was still outstanding;
he raised a further complaint about how his complaint had been dealt with, but the 
response he received was equally defensive;
he wasnt seeking compensation; he just wanted a simple apology.
Co-op Bank rejected this complaint. It said the acknowledgement letter it had issued listed 
the information that is needed in order to consider a Section 75 claim. But it said that when 
the letter was sent, it hadnt yet evaluated Mr Ms claim and it wasnt suggesting the 
information hed sent was insufficient. Co-op Bank said it couldnt agree it had made a 
mistake, but it thanked Mr M for bringing his concerns to its attention, and it confirmed its 
claims team would be in touch shortly.
Following Mr Ms subsequent complaint, Co-op Bank looked again at its process. But it said 
it was happy with how its complaint handler had dealt with the matter and addressed Mr Ms 
concerns.
Co-op Bank told us upon receipt of Mr Ms claim, it issued its standard acknowledgment 
letter so that hed know his claim had been received. It said that because its customers dont 
always provide all the information at the outset, its acknowledgment letter sets out what 
information is required. And because it hasnt, at this point evaluated a customers claim, the 
letter is clearly worded, if you have not done so already, please would you provide us with 
the following information before listing information which may be needed.
The bank said it received a significant volume of claims during the Pandemic, but it told Mr M 
it would work his claim as quickly as possible. It says it acknowledged his claim on 31 July  
within four days  and was able to offer him a full refund on 15 September. It said it received 
Mr Ms signed acceptance on 24 September and it processed the refund that same day.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained he thought the acknowledgement letter  although generic  was reasonable as it 
was intended to cover a number of scenarios. And he hadnt found anything that suggested 
the use, by a bank, of its customers account number as a complaint reference was wrong or 
that, in this case, it had caused any detriment.
The investigator also considered the banks final response letter  but said hed been unable 
to find anything objectionable about its tone. And he didnt think it was wrong of the bank to 
issue a final response in respect of a complaint about its communications, even though the 
refund claim Mr M had made hadnt yet been concluded.
Mr M disagrees so his complaint comes to me to decide. Mr M says he made numerous 
phone calls and email chasers to the bank to progress his claim. He says the banks 
acknowledgment letter was substandard, and his complaint about it shouldve been upheld 
and an apology issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusions as our 
investigator and for the same reasons. And I think the investigator set out the position clearly 
and in detail, so theres very little more I can add.
Ive considered the communication from the bank when Mr M first sent in his claim for a 
refund along with his paperwork and documentation. The wording in the correspondence 
said, In order to enable us to review your claim, if you have not done so already, please 
would you provide us with the following Information...". 
Its clear to me that this letter simply confirmed that the claim Mr M was making had been 
received and it set out the information that Co-op Bank would need in order to evaluate a 
claim. It was not telling Mr M that the documentation hed sent in was insufficient or that he 
needed to send it again. It was simply a checklist that was intended to assist Mr M. The bank 
hadnt yet begun the process of evaluating his claim, so only Mr M would know what 
documentary evidence he had already sent it. And in the event that there was something on 
that list that hed not yet sent in, hed be prompted to do so at this early stage, thus 
minimising future delays because of this.
Ive considered the point about Co-op Bank using Mr Ms account number as its complaint 
reference and I understand his concern. But Im not aware of any naming convention that 
instructs against this. And Ive not been made aware of any loss or detriment suffered by 
Mr M. But if Mr M still has concerns about this, particularly in respect of a data breach, he 
should contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and raise the matter directly 
with it.Finally, Ive looked at the time it took Co-op Bank to deal with Mr Ms claim. I can see it 
acknowledged receipt of it within four days and offered him a settlement just over six weeks 
later. 
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr M. 
Hed booked and paid the deposit for a holiday, and its cancellation and the difficulties 
obtaining a refund from the travel company wouldve understandably caused him some 
anxiety. 
But I cant hold Co-op Bank responsible for any of this because the initial problems were 
caused by the travel company, and then compounded by the pandemic.
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr M first contacted Co-op Bank, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquiries from consumers looking to get money back as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were 
relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at 
a very unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.
Taking all this into account, even though Mr M telephoned and emailed the bank on a 
number of occasions, I dont think the six weeks he had to wait was, in the circumstances, 
unreasonable.
In summary, I dont think Co-op Bank treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably and I do not 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman