DRN-2569393
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited applied a chargeback to its 
account resulting in financial loss.
What happened
T took a booking online for a service on 3 July 2020 and arranged that this be provided for a 
payment of £1,120.83. This payment was processed by WorldPay on its behalf. On 3 August 
2020 WorldPay wrote to T and said that a chargeback for fraud had been raised on behalf of 
the cardholder. T provided details of the booking but WorldPay said that this was not 
sufficient to defend the chargeback and the payment was re-debited. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the 
chargeback scheme was governed by rules set by the relevant card scheme and WorldPay 
had to follow them. While T provided the booking details this did not show that the genuine 
cardholder either made the purchase or received the service. He did not think that WorldPay 
had acted incorrectly.
T did not agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. It showed how much in charges it 
had been paying to WorldPay. It had always taken bookings in this way. And it did not think it 
fair that it had no protection and so had to assume full liability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement T signed with WorldPay, the related terms and conditions 
and the customer operating instructions. I consider T was fairly bound by them. These set 
out that T would be responsible for chargebacks and that transactions where the cardholder 
was not present were of particular risk. The authorisation of a card payment is not the same 
as a guarantee.
The cardholder here had disputed the payment and his card issuer had raised a claim of 
fraud using the chargeback scheme. The only thing that WorldPay could do was to ask T to 
provide any evidence to show that this payment was genuine. Under the rules of the scheme 
it does not make the decision about whether there was fraud. 
Id expect it to defend a chargeback on behalf of T if it had evidence to support this. But Im 
afraid I agree that the information Ive seen T provided confirmed the booking but not that 
the actual cardholder had made the transaction. Getting that sort of evidence for such a 
booking is more difficult than say if the cardholder was present and entered a PIN or if a 
verification method such as 3D Secure was used. I dont know what if any checks were 
made and retained when the person turned up to use the service but no evidence of that 
was then provided.
Im afraid that under the terms and conditions of the agreement T does bear this risk and 
WorldPay has referred to those terms in its final response. It wouldnt have known about the 
fraud until the chargeback was raised and the cardholder typically had 120 days to do this. 
So, I dont have a basis to say that WorldPay has made a mistake or has acted 
unreasonably. I appreciate how disappointed the director will be about that especially as hes 
shown how much T has paid in commission when WorldPay was processing payments for it. 
And that T has taken payments in this way before without incident. But I dont consider that 
gives me a basis to find that WorldPay should pay any or all of this loss. Unfortunately, the 
person responsible for causing the loss to T is the fraudster who used this card to make the 
booking and I know that T will now have no real chance of recovering the money.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman