DRN-4216205
The complaint
Ms R says H C I Financial Services Limited (HCI) did not deliver the advisory service for her 
Standard Life Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) that she was entitled to, and paid for. 
She seeks compensation for financial loss and distress, and a refund of the fees she paid. 
She says the main issues are:
Poor performance of the SIPP, especially hindered by excessive fees/charges which 
she objected to and which eclipsed the SIPPs investment returns. [issue 1]
Poor advisory service from her adviser  unsuitable advice; lack of advice; and failure 
to follow her requests to make changes to the SIPPs investments. [issue 2]
Poor service from, and misconduct by, her adviser  lack of communication; 
reluctance to arrange meetings/appointments to discuss changes to the SIPPs 
investments; rude and disrespectful behaviour towards her; and an incident (on 29 
July 2022) in which a telephone conversation about her SIPP was on speakerphone 
in an office reception area without her consent. [issue 3]
HCIs failure to provide an alternative adviser to service the SIPP. [issue 4]
What happened
I issued a detailed Provisional Decision (PD) for this case on 7 June 2023. My findings were 
quite lengthy and both parties are familiar with the full contents of the PD. As such, and for 
the purpose of this decision, I will quote only the key background summaries and, with more 
details, the key provisional conclusions in the PD.
Key background summaries
Ms R previously held (from 2018) an Aviva Pension (the AP), which was serviced by a
different adviser firm, which had been subjected to switches to cash around March 2020 and
which had then been partly invested (and partly retained in cash) by the time she met with
HCI in December 2020. She sought a new adviser and appointed HCI. HCI recommended
transfer of the AP into the SIPP. This was implemented in early 2021, with a transfer value of
around £230,000.
Overall and in conclusion, HCI said her concerns about loss of value in the SIPP were
mishandled by the adviser; she should have been given an appointment to review her/the
SIPPs profile in light of her concerns; the advisers tone, comments and approach in the
telephone conversation of 29 July breached its standards and it apologises for that; her
complaint is partly upheld for these reasons and it sincerely apologises for the distress and
inconvenience she has been caused; and, as a gesture of goodwill, it offers her £2,000 for
the distress and inconvenience caused and in full and final settlement of her complaint.
Ms R did not accept HCIs findings and conclusion, so the matter was referred to this
service. One of our investigators looked into it and concluded that it should be partly upheld,
for broadly the same reasons as HCI had found but also for an additional reason. He mainly
said 
With regards to issues 1 and 2, we would not comment on investment performance 
(in isolation) because that is not guaranteed and is influenced by external factors. 
However, we will consider suitability of investments 
By 28 July it was clear to the adviser that Ms Rs main concern was about losing 
money in the SIPP and that she needed reassurance its value would not continue to 
fall. The adviser did not listen to this concern and did not review the strategy for the 
SIPP (to consider lowering its risk profile) as he should have. He ought to have given 
her options for the defensive and cautious risk profiles, but did not.
In relation to issue 3 and the advisers service to Ms R, he could have tried to make 
other arrangements to see her sooner after their conversations on 28 and 29 July. He 
also could have been empathetic towards her urgent requests for a meeting, but 
there is nothing specific to conclude he provided poor service or behaved 
unreasonably directly to her at other times. However, the disclosure she received in 
response to her Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) uncovered conduct by the 
adviser that was/is unacceptable and lacked professionalism. The contents of the 
recording for the call on 29 July, in which the adviser also made unprofessional 
comments, are uncomfortable to listen to.
With regards to issue 4, when Ms R spoke to HCI on 3 August 2022 (in relation to her 
complaint) it offered her an immediate meeting with a different adviser. However, she 
had already removed HCI from the SIPP and had lost trust in it.
Ms R should receive the £2,000 compensation that HCI has offered. HCI should also 
calculate any redress arising from a comparison between how her SIPP would have 
performed if rebalanced into a defensive risk profile on 28 July 2022, as should have 
been the case, and how it actually performed since then  with the calculation end 
date being when HCI was removed from the SIPP.
Key provisional conclusions
Issue 1  
I endorse and echo the investigators reluctance to address the SIPPs performance in
isolation. I make no findings in this respect. Investment performance was not guaranteed to
Ms R. In general terms, an investments performance is inherently influenced and subject to
the market it is exposed to. The same was the case for the investments in Ms Rs SIPP, and
HCI had no control over the relevant markets.
However, HCI was responsible for suitability of the initial investment advice for the SIPP and,
based on the terms of its ongoing advisory service, for periodical reviews of that suitability
and of the SIPP. These factors are usually important in setting up, and maintaining, a
portfolio to give it a chance to achieve the desired performance and outcome, and they
usually sit within the advising firms responsibility. They did in Ms Rs case. Another
important element of investment suitability is the impact of fees/charges to be incurred in
investments and associated advisory services. This also affects how investments are given a
chance to achieve the desired outcome.
Suitability is a matter that features under issue 2, so I will address it in the next sub-section.This service does not regulate adviser fees, platform fees or fund fees, so it is beyond my 
remit  to make isolated findings on the fee rates applied to the SIPP. However, as I said 
above and as I will address in the next sub-section, investment related fees can be 
considered in the context of suitability of advice. In Ms Rs case the key questions would be, 
were the initial and ongoing fees/charges associated with HCIs investment recommendation 
properly disclosed to (and understood by) her and did they cause the recommendation to be 
unsuitable?
The matter of fees disclosure can be addressed presently. Evidence shows that the 
associated fees/charges were properly disclosed to and agreed by Ms R. The pension 
switch report that was issued to her disclosed HCIs initial and ongoing advice charges
clearly, and she proceeded with its service on this basis. The initial fee (2.5% of the transfer
value) was somewhat isolated, in the sense that it resulted from her obtaining fresh advice
from a new firm. However, the report also showed that HCIs ongoing charge rate of 1% was
higher than the 0.75% charge rate applied by her previous adviser. Ms R was never bound
to accept HCIs fees. As I said above, financial advisers (like HCI) operate in a competitive
market, so she could have sought service elsewhere if she disagreed with its fees.
Furthermore, if she subsequently objected to the fees she had the freedom and discretion to
terminate HCIs service in response.
It is true that the fees incurred in the SIPP eclipsed its portfolios performance  It is also a 
matter of fact (based on account statements) that the impact of fees/charges on the SIPPs 
returns was significant. However, the question to answer is still about whether (or not) HCI 
can reasonably be held responsible for this, in terms of suitability of its initial and ongoing 
advice. 
Issue 2  
By the time of her approach to HCI the APs asset mix included, in order of size, around 
38% in cash, around 31% in overseas equity, around 14% in overseas fixed interest 
securities, around 10% in UK equity and around 4% in UK fixed interest securities. With 
around 41% exposed to the equity markets the AP was arguably on its way to having a 
balanced risk profile. The cash holding was disfavoured by Ms R and she wanted more 
investment exposure in that respect. Notably, the investments in the APs portfolio prior to 
the move to cash presented a balanced profile, so this suggests she held a balanced ATR 
since 2018. Added to these circumstances is the fact that she wanted (and needed) to give 
her pension a chance to recover from the previous loss in value, undertaking some more risk 
was necessary.
Overall, on balance, in the above context and despite the questionnaire inconsistencies, I
am satisfied that Ms R presented a balanced ATR as HCI assessed.
Ms Rs position at the outset could therefore be summarised as follows  she was around
two years away from retirement, she needed annual retirement income between £19,000
and £24,000, she had around half of that seemingly catered for outside the AP, she would
potentially have around £40,000 cash in retirement (if she paid off her mortgage) and she
needed the other half of her annual retirement income from the AP (worth around £230,000
at the time).
Overall, I understand that Ms R probably did not consider herself as having much of a
capacity for loss in her pension. Recovering from past loss and maintaining (and hopefully
growing) an improved pension value were her goals, so the idea of incurring further loss
would have been unwelcomed.
However, evidence shows there was a need to adopt more, and enough, exposure to risk fora chance of achieving the performance required for these goals. The position summarised
directly above also shows that there was broadly enough capacity for loss in her financial
set-up (including the AP) to match the balanced ATR that was assessed. This does not
mean she wanted such capacity to be tested or exhausted, or that pension loss would not
have caused an impact upon her. She did not want the former and the latter would have
been impactful. However, it means she had the capacity to cope with some loss, if that
happened, in the pursuit for the pension performance she required.
For the above reasons, I consider that Ms Rs investor profile at the outset was as HCI
assessed. It recommended the switch to the SIPP and recommended the underlying
portfolio. This, I consider, is where HCI failed. On balance, and for the reasons addressed 
below, its recommendation of the pension switch (and associated portfolio) was unsuitable.
The regulators Principles for Businesses, at Principle 6, requires a firm to pay due regard to
the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. This is partly echoed in the regulators
Conduct of Business (COBS) rules, at COBS 2.1.1R, which requires a firm to act honestly,
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients and in relation to
designated investment business carried on for a retail client. These regulatory provisions are
directly relevant to a firms responsibility for the suitability of its recommendations.
In 2009, the regulator produced a checklist for pension switching, which highlighted four key
issues that advising firms were/are expected to consider. HCI would have  or ought
reasonably to have  been mindful of this. The four considerations were/are  Charges (is
the consumer being switched to a pension that is more expensive than the existing one(s)
without good reason?) 
My provisional conclusion is that the switch from the AP to the SIPP, as recommended by
HCI, was not in Ms Rs best interests because it increased costs and charges without good 
reason 
In comparing the AP to the SIPP, some evidence from the point of advice shows that the
pension product charge was to be higher than before (from 0.35% to 0.40%), and the same
for the fund charge (from 0.72% to 0.75%). Other evidence is differently presented and
shows a slight drop in Annual Management Charge from 0.35% to 0.33% but a significant
increase in fund charge from 0.41% to 0.75%. In addition, there was a one-off initial advice
fee of 2.5% to incur and an increased ongoing advice fee (from 0.80% to 1% per year) to
incur.
Overall, it was clear that the SIPP was to be more expensive than the AP, and that HCIs
ongoing servicing of the SIPP was to be more expensive than the cost of the previous firms
servicing of the AP. HCIs recommendation letter to Ms R readily and repeatedly stated this
in a number of pages (within the main letter and its appendices). The pension comparison it
conducted showed that  based only on charges, without including investment performance
and based on all three assumed growth rates that were used in the comparison  the SIPP
was to under-perform the AP by around 5%, and that the under-performance was to take the
SIPP into capital loss. Indeed, HCI concluded the following  If you based your assessment
solely on charges then it would not be advisable to transfer.
The recommendation letter presented two main reasons why the switch was to be viewed as
suitable, despite the increased costs. HCI considered that the APs portfolio lacked the
facility for regular fund reviews/fund switches, whereas the SIPP had such a facility; and HCI
broadly considered that the portfolio it recommended for the SIPP could perform better.
I am not persuaded by the fund reviews/fund switches point. The AP had already been
subjected to fund reviews and switches. Both happened in the move to cash in March 2020. The [consolidated] AP was set up in April 2018. I have considered its transactions statement
between then and December 2020. Its initial investments were completed in May 2018 and
they remained until the liquidations that began in March 2020. The liquidations ended in April 
2020. However, notably, reinvestments began in November 2020  leading to the asset mix
(in December 2020) that I summarised above. Therefore, the AP was not unyielding and the
events in 2020 show that funds could be reviewed and switched within it as and when
required/advised. Even if the SIPP had better arrangements for such switches, it does not
negate or dilute the fact that reviews and switches were possible in the AP.
HCI conducted its comparison inclusive of the effect of the AP being moved into cash in
March/April 2020. In the circumstances of Ms Rs case, this was an unreasonable approach
that was bound to produce an arguably misleading outcome. The move to cash and its
effects were the problems that she objected to and that all concerned viewed as being the
cause her past loss. The AP was not set up to be held in cash. It was set up in April 2018,
invested by May 2018 and remained invested until what both HCI and Ms R considered to
have been an unexpected and/or unsuitable move to cash (by the previous adviser) in
March/April 2020. The events of March and April 2020 were therefore exceptions, not the
rule. In this context, due weight should have been given, in the comparisons, to the period
before the move to cash when the AP appears to have been invested as intended.
There is FE Analytics performance comparison evidence from the time, used by HCI and
partly quoted and presented in its recommendations letter to Ms R. This evidence shows the
following  it compares the APs portfolios performance to performance of the portfolio
recommended for the SIPP (the SIPP portfolio) and to a performance benchmark for the
SIPP; the period captured is May 2018 to December 2020; the APs portfolio consistently
outperformed the SIPP portfolio up to May 2020; there was a significant calendar
outperformance in the year of 2019, where the APs portfolio performed at 20% and the
SIPP portfolio at 15%; during the captured period the APs portfolio had a high in
performance of around 26%, whilst the SIPP portfolios high was around 17%; because of
the effect of the move to cash in March/April 2020, the SIPP portfolio then out-performed the
APs portfolio from May to December 2020; but there is separate illustration evidence
suggesting that, but for the move to cash, the APs portfolio would probably have continued
to out-perform the SIPP portfolio during this part of 2020.
Overall and on balance, the APs portfolios performance prior to the move to cash supported
more promising prospects for the future than the SIPP portfolios 
The AP was cheaper and its portfolios performance (when invested), up to May 2020, was 
better than that of the portfolio it was considering, so there was cause to take the view that 
its future potential was also likely to be better. These served as reasons for her to remain 
with the AP and switch funds within it to try to recapture where it was prior to the move to 
cash, or to try to achieve a better position.
Evidence from the DSAR disclosure suggests there were (or could have been) some
privately held considerations within HCI around the notion of retaining the AP. An internal
email dated 6 January 2021 features feedback on the contents of the draft recommendations
letter (to Ms R) and comments on areas to amend. The feedback and comments included
the following 
At Alternatives Considered please add/address the following. The first point is particularly
important as she has been with Aviva such a short time and is now incurring a second initial
charge within a short timescale. Why not stay with Aviva and fund switch? Presumably Aviva
doesnt support the Cambrian portfolios and desire for active management? As for not
transferring into Nest, rationale would presumably be lack of FAD and limited fund choice.
Retain plans with existing provider(s) & revise investment solution.o Why you didnt do this goes here
Transfer/Redirect to your employer sponsored pension scheme.
o Why you didnt do that here, e.g. you do not have access to an employer-sponsored
pension scheme at this time because
o If there are any regular contributions, we need to establish the limits of any employer
contribution matching available and recommend this is taken full advantage of first (as this
essentially provides a 100% investment return on day 1), then why any further contributions
are best placed with our recommended provider. [my emphasis underlined]
The above shows HCI was mindful that retaining the AP and fund switching within it was, or
should be, the primary consideration. Instead, it appears to have looked for reasons to
recommend the pension switch, as opposed to proper treatment and exploration of this
primary consideration. The following additional feedback illustrates this further 
If possible, at Comparison of Performance, confirm the risk score of her Aviva portfolio (I
cant see it on the FE saved to file). Hopefully its not Balanced which will bolster the need to
move. Despite of the large cash holding, shes still in some weird funds, precious metals etc
so Im guessing volatile, and this is worth a mention. [my emphasis] 
The above, especially as emphasised, strongly suggests that HCI prioritised recommending
the pension switch (perhaps at all costs) and the need to find grounds to bolster the
recommendation, as opposed to prioritising Ms Rs best interests. Those best interests were
not served by a pension switch which involved foreseen significant higher costs and charges
to her and which involved a new portfolio that, up to May 2020, had performed notably
poorer than the AP portfolio she had.
 she should have been advised to retain the AP and to conduct fund switches within it in 
line with her balanced investor profile (which HCI correctly assessed). It follows from this 
finding that, with suitable advice, she probably would not have moved her pension into the 
SIPP, so the ongoing advice matters in 2022, which also fall under issue 2, would not have 
happened. As such, I do not need to address those matters, the detriment was caused at the 
outset with the pension switch. My provisional conclusion is that Ms Rs claim about 
unsuitable advice is upheld and, as I will set out below, redress for this is to be calculated 
from the point of the pension switch.
Issue 3  
Having listened to the relevant telephone call recordings and read the previously 
undisclosed internal communications from the adviser, his unprofessionalism towards Ms R
is apparent. The latter includes some derogatory and/or disrespectful references to her that
were uncalled for, and that were clearly below the standard of service that he was obliged to
uphold (by HCI and by regulations). In the former, his disregard towards and contempt for
her seems even more apparent. These included, especially in the conversation of 29 July,
him repeatedly raising his voice and seemingly scolding her. Like the investigator, I too
found it uncomfortable to listen to the recordings. During the calls, Ms R was very
transparent about the profound distress she was feeling at the time, yet the adviser
displayed little to no empathy in response  instead, he seemed irritated by her and by the
entire affair, but I do not consider he had grounds to feel that way  
Ultimately, he was concerned (on Ms Rs behalf) that though she was alarmed by the state
of the SIPP at the time, a knee-jerk reaction from her could worsen the situation and could
result in crystalising losses if liquidations to cash and/or rebalancing was conducted (thereby
losing the opportunities for rebounds/recoveries). During the calls, Ms R repeatedly said that
she had never asked for liquidations to cash.However, the adviser had a valid point nevertheless, even if the reaction she sought was
limited to rebalancing. Crystalising the losses she was concerned about in mid-2022 could
potentially have set back the pension value recovery pursuit that she began with HCI in
January 2021. Furthermore, as is clear from evidence and as she was aware of at the time,
other than investment performance the increased fees/charges she was incurring were as
much, if not more, the cause of the problem she faced.
The adviser also tried to clarify that his advice would not be compromised, but if Ms R
wished to dismiss it and instruct something else she could do so. This is another fair point.
The adviser was not obliged to compromise his professional view, and he acknowledged her
right to instruct against his view if she wished. However, it was clear from the conversations
that she needed guidance.
 he could have informed her about alternative options, explained why he disfavoured
them but left the final decision to her. Essentially, as the investigator said (and as HCI
conceded in its complaint response), the adviser should have conducted a SIPP review at
this point. I consider it more likely (than not), that guidance on alternative action Ms R could
consider instructing, even if it was of her own volition and against advice, would have been
meaningful to her 
Given my findings in issue 2, I take the view that her initial distress about the state of the
SIPP had its root cause in the fact that the switch to the SIPP was unsuitable for her at the
outset. The detrimental effects of the increased costs were always going to materialise and
they were at the core of what she was distressed about in 2022. However, added to that was
the advisers misconduct in 2022.
In the above context, I commend HCI for making the offer of £2,000 compensation to Ms R
for the trouble and distress caused to her. I appreciate that it did not make the offer for the
same root cause reason I have found, but it made the offer with recognition of the distress 
caused to her by the adviser. I am satisfied with the offer and will reflect it in an award for
trouble and distress in my provisional orders below. I consider that the offer/award caters for
all matters under issue 3 
As I have summarised above, there was merit in the advisers concerns about a
knee jerk reaction to the state of the SIPP. For the sake of completeness, I nevertheless
consider that a form of rebalancing should still have been considered and pursued at the
time. However, his concerns about locking in losses that could otherwise have been
reversed as the market developed was a reasonable one and that could have been
addressed within the rebalancing considerations.
In this context, he delivered ongoing advice, albeit unfortunately with a profoundly
unprofessional approach. Given the lack of evidence that HCI did not deliver the ongoing
service it was paid for at any other time and given that Ms R would probably have incurred
ongoing advice fees even if she had not moved to HCI  she concedes that she always
operated with advice and she incurred such fees with her previous adviser  I do not find
grounds to say the ongoing service fees she paid should be refunded 
Ms R wilfully sought a new adviser in December 2020 and she did not wish to continue with
her previous adviser. As such, a pension review (and advice) by a new adviser was
inevitable and would have happened in any case. Such work would have resulted in costs to
her, in any case. As I said in the previous sub-section, she should have been advised
differently. However, rebalancing of, and/or fund switching within, the APs portfolio should
and would probably have been the alternative to the unsuitable pension switch HCI
recommended. Such rebalancing would also have required professional work at a cost to
her. It is possible, if not probable, that work short of a pension switch (by HCI or any otheradviser) would have cost less than the initial advice fee incurred in the pension switch, but I
do not have enough evidence to determine this.
Overall, on balance and for these reasons, I am not persuaded that there are grounds to
justify a refund, to Ms R, of the initial advice fee.
Issue 4  
With regards to this issue, and as the investigator found, by the time Ms R spoke to HCI in
August 2022 and by the time it offered her a change of adviser, she had already lost trust in
it. This was shortly after her complaint, so I consider HCIs offer to have been reasonably
prompt. I do not find that it failed to offer her an alternative adviser. Unfortunately, and due to
the circumstances of the case, the offer was essentially redundant by the time it was made.
Redress  
On balance, I consider that with suitable advice she would have behaved differently. As I
said above, she should have been advised to retain and rebalance the AP. I have not seen
evidence to say or suggest she would not have done that, if advised to. It is not possible to
say precisely how the rebalancing would have been done. She gave no instruction to return
the AP to its state before the move to cash, so if HCI had suitably advised her to retain and
rebalance the AP, it would have exercised its advisory discretion to determine how that could
be suitably done. It is impossible to say what the outcome would have been.
As such, I do not find that there is a natural redress benchmark to use in this case. Instead, I
am satisfied that redress to Ms R should be based on the benchmark in the table below,
which matches her balanced ATR. I consider that the redress I have set out below is fair and
reasonable given her circumstances at the time of advice. The start date for the redress
calculation will be when the pension was switched to the SIPP and the end date will be the
date of settlement. The effect of the unsuitable pension switch continues to date, so the
calculation must reflect this 
Ms R had a balanced ATR.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It is a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms Rs balanced ATR can be found in this benchmark. It broadly 
reflects the sort of return she could have obtained from the AP, with the same ATR, 
had it been retained and rebalanced.
Both parties were invited to comment on the PD, and they did.
Ms R welcomed most of its findings but she says there is a need to highlight and stress 
particular issues for me to bear in mind, reconsider and/or add to my views when issuing my 
final decision. She explained them and provided evidence in support. She acknowledged 
that some of the evidence might have been previously shared with us. 
Ms R mainly restated previous submissions and emphasised the following:
Contrary to what the adviser said, she did not have a knee jerk reaction to the state 
of her pension in July 2022. She had been raising concerns about it for some time before hand (since 2021), and there is evidence of the concerns she emailed to him 
earlier in 2022 [copies of which she referred to] which were in line with the concerns 
she continued to raise in July. The problem was that he consistently ignored her, and 
the email evidence shows expressions of her concerns about this mistreatment too. 
As such her position in July was defined by distress caused by longstanding 
unanswered concerns that she had been raising with him and frustration (and upset) 
caused by his dismissive treatment of her.
The adviser sold his recommendation to her with the misleading message that the 
new pension and investments would be so beneficial to her she would not even 
notice the increased fees, because the pension growth will outweigh them. 
The facts of the matter show that her previous AP portfolio was better for her than the 
recommended switch, and that the adviser made the recommendation mainly to 
benefit himself and HCI.
£2,000 is not enough to properly compensate her for the severe hurt feelings and 
emotionally harrowing experience she endured in the matter. Especially given her 
age, her stage in life and the distress caused in experiencing significant losses in her 
pension at the same time. 
Her claim for a refund of advisory fees should be reconsidered. Especially because 
she is now facing the prospects of having to meet a fresh set of initial and setting up 
fees when she appoints a new adviser, and this would not have been the case but for 
the advisers and HCIs wrongdoings.
Ms R also submitted evidence illustrating the fees and charges incurred in the SIPP, and 
illustrating the decline of its value over time.
HCI vehemently disagrees with the PDs conclusion on issue 2, and with the benchmark 
used in the PDs redress provisions. It mainly argued as follows:
Ms R approached HCI in December 2020 because the AP had suffered significant 
losses under her previous advisers service (caused by the switch to cash within it 
earlier in the year). She was unhappy with that switch. The APs portfolio had begun 
to be reinvested in November but around 38% of it was still held in cash at the time of 
her approach. The task for HCI was to address these circumstances, which is what it 
did. [point 1]
The PD agrees that it correctly assessed her ATR as balanced, and that she had the 
capacity for loss to match that ATR, so  the Ombudsman agrees that the most 
appropriate course of action was to put the client back into a balanced portfolio in 
search of the returns she desired. [point 2]
It disagrees with the PDs finding that the pension switch was not in Ms Rs best 
interest and with the PDs reason for this finding (that the switch increased costs and 
charges without good reason and that those increased costs have since been 
damaging to the SIPPs returns). Based on the PDs finding that Only investment-
related fees can be considered in the context of the suitability of advice this finding 
and its reasoning are wrong. [point 3]
In terms of product and fund related charges, the overall difference between the AP 
and the SIPP was a 0.31% increase, solely due to the higher fund charges in the 
SIPPs portfolio. The only reason the APs portfolio had lower fund charges was because of its cash component, which effectively had no fund-related charges. As 
such, if the adviser had done as the PD says it should have done, and rebalanced 
the AP to a suitable balanced portfolio  which  could have been done, as the 
available funds with Aviva are essentially the same as the funds that were available 
with Standard Life   the result to Ms R would have been the same (as in the 
recommended switch) in terms of costs and charges. [point 4]
Also on the basis that Only investment-related fees can be considered in the context 
of the suitability of advice it is not clear why the PD considered its initial and ongoing 
advice fees. In any case, those fees would have been the same even if the APs 
portfolio was rebalanced. Evidence showed that Ms R required initial advice at the 
time and could not continue to maintain her pension investments without ongoing 
professional advice. [point 5]
There was added value in the SIPP because it was easier and more cost effective for 
HCI to manage the portfolio on Standard Lifes platform, Ms R wanted constant and 
ongoing regular updates on such management and that would have been facilitated 
better on the platform. [point 6]
The PD agrees that the adviser  gave the correct advice to remain invested and 
not panic when the market dropped again, but Ms R chose not to listen to that 
advice. As such, other than the advisers unprofessional conduct  which it has 
conceded  he did no other wrong and he did not fail to give her suitable advice. 
[point 7]
It believes  it is  effectively being punished for poor performance and [was] under 
the impression that poor performance was no grounds for a complaint. We also feel 
that the benchmark recommended to compensate the client for the unsuitable 
advice is irrelevant to anything. Her existing Aviva portfolio was not benchmarked 
against it, and the portfolio we recommended also was not benchmarked against it. 
She was also not taking an income before or after the advice. Therefore, we are 
unsure how it is relevant. However, we have noticed that it has outperformed other 
typically used balanced benchmarks  It feels as though a benchmark has been 
selected which is the most detrimental to HCI when many other benchmarks would 
have been representative  If the Ombudsman still feels that the advice to switch 
and invest in a balanced portfolio was unsuitable (which we disagree with for the 
reasons discussed), we feel that the only suitable redress would be a refund of the 
difference in investment-related charges between the two portfolios (which would be 
minimal as the charges would have been similar). We feel that anything other than 
this would be punishing us for poor performance which would be unfair. [point 8]
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed Ms Rs case, especially in light of her comments on the PD and the 
comments from HCI. Having done so, I retain the same conclusions as expressed in the PD 
and I incorporate those conclusions (and the findings supporting them) into this decision. 
I have not been persuaded by HCIs submissions and I will set out my reasons further below. 
First, I begin by addressing Ms Rs submissions. 
I consider that most of what she has said was in aid of reinforcing the claims the PD already 
upheld. As such, I consider that the PD addressed those claims sufficiently and whilst I appreciate the information she has submitted to give additional support to them, the same 
conclusion upholding them is the end result. Beyond those claims are the matters she wants 
me to reconsider  her disagreement that her position in 2022 was a knee-jerk reaction, her 
view that the trouble and upset award should be increased and her re-stated pursuit for a 
refund of fees.
I can see, from the evidence cited, that her position in July 2022 was not quite the knee jerk 
reaction that the adviser portrayed. However, HCIs main wrongdoing was the unsuitable 
advice at the outset, and as I said in the PD  with suitable advice, she probably would not 
have moved her pension into the SIPP, so the ongoing advice matters in 2022, which also 
fall under issue 2, would not have happened. As such, I do not need to address those 
matters, the detriment was caused at the outset with the pension switch, so this finding 
about the knee jerk reaction portrayal does not affect the key conclusions in the case.
There is evidence showing the concerns Ms R had been raising with the adviser earlier in 
2022 and then up to July that year. Her emails to the adviser on 9 March, stated very clearly 
and firmly her urgent need for his attention to her pension and her concerns; her need for a 
meeting with him; her dissatisfaction with his lack of engagement with her in the preceding 
year; her view that she was better off with the AP than with the SIPP because the former had 
at least begun to generate growth (without exaggerated charges) at the time of the switch, 
but the latter had been a loss (with damaging charges); and her grievances about the 
charges in the SIPP, his fees, their impacts on the SIPPs returns and the ongoing loss of 
value in the SIPP. She followed this with another email to him on 16 March, using the same 
overall context and seeking advice on her concerns (also mentioning the idea of reviewing 
the risk profile of the SIPP). She then sent another email to him the next day, in aid of setting 
a meeting date.
These emails have contents that show, or at least suggest, that she had indeed been raising 
the same concerns earlier than March 2022 and possibly beginning from around 2021. In 
this context, I agree that the views she expressed in July 2022 were much less, if at all, a 
knee jerk reaction on her part, and were more to do with her frustration at the advisers 
ongoing failure to simply review the SIPP. A review is what all her concerns called for, yet it 
was never offered or done. This finding is consistent with what I said in the PD  
Essentially, as the investigator said (and as HCI conceded in its complaint response), the 
adviser should have conducted a SIPP review at this point. 
As I also said in the PD, and quoted above, I do not need to address the 2022 events 
because the advice in 2020 was unsuitable, so but for that unsuitable advice the events in 
2022 would probably not have happened. Furthermore, by upholding the complaint from the 
wrongdoing in 2020 redress applies from then to date, so that captures 2022 too.
I am not persuaded that Ms R should receive the refund of advisory fees that she seeks, and 
her comments in this respect have not given me cause to conclude otherwise. I previously 
gave this claim for a refund due consideration and set out, in the PD (and as quoted above), 
the reasons why it would be neither fair nor reasonable to award a refund. 
Ms R has drawn my attention to the new initial expense she will incur when she appoints a 
new adviser. I agree with the hypothesis that had her relationship with HCI worked well it is 
unlikely, or at least arguably unlikely, that she will now be in the position of seeking and 
appointing a new adviser at fresh initial costs to her. However, the matter still turns on 
whether (or not) HCI delivered the service it received fees for. Advisory relationships can 
dissolve for a variety of reasons, but a common factor is usually one partys decision to 
move on and away from the other. The terms for these relationships usually allow for that, 
and for termination by either party without reason. The same applied in the present case. In other words, it is not automatically the case that the initial costs to an individual in having 
to appoint a new adviser should fall to the previous adviser. Grounds to consider this should 
exist. Facts and circumstances in cases can be different. There might well be some cases in 
which the facts support the sort of claim Ms R has made, but I have not found that in her 
case. 
The adviser gave her unsuitable advice in 2020, to which redress (as set out below) applies, 
and he conducted himself and his service to her unprofessionally in 2022, to which the 
£2,000 award applies. He wrongly denied her due attention to her concerns and enquiries, 
and a review, in 2022, but these are also covered in the £2,000 award. As I identified in the 
PD, amidst his wrongdoings he nevertheless gave her advice. Without evidence that HCI 
failed to deliver the service it was paid for, I am not persuaded to award a refund of the fees 
it received for that service.
I am also not persuaded to increase the trouble and upset award to Ms R. For her 
information, if she has not already done so she is invited to consider the contents of our 
website under the following tabs  For consumers, What to expect and Compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. The information provides insight into how we approach 
distress, trouble and upset awards, if such awards apply to a case.
Such an award applies to Ms Rs case, for the reasons given by the investigator and for 
those given in the PD. As stated on our website, awards up to the level of £1,500 can be 
given in cases, like hers, in which the distress caused has been substantial and has 
extended to serious offence and humiliation. For the reasons given in the PD, I am satisfied 
that the advisers unprofessional conduct towards Ms R was notably offensive, that he 
sought to humiliate her and that these elements compounded her distress at the time. 
Awards above £1,500 (and up to £5,000) can be given where there are lasting effects of 
such detriments. In her case, I consider it quite apparent that Ms R continues to experience 
some ongoing effects of, and perhaps pain from, the damaging way in which the advisers 
behaviour made her feel. This is identifiable in her different submissions. However, this 
should be balanced with evidence that she has also partly moved on and seeks a conclusion 
to her complaint in order to do so even further. In this context, I am satisfied that £2,000 is 
an appropriate award to her, which reflects the factors relevant to the £1,500 level of award, 
but also reflects the degree of ongoing effects she has faced.
I now turn to HCIs points.
Point 1
The APs history and its state as of December 2020 are matters transparent in documentary 
evidence, and are not in dispute. HCI did address the circumstances it was presented with. 
However, the problem is that it gave unsuitable advice in response to those circumstances.
Point 2
It is correct to say that Ms Rs ATR and capacity for loss were properly determined by HCI. 
I question HCIs statement that   the Ombudsman agrees that the most appropriate 
course of action was to put the client back into a balanced portfolio in search of the returns 
she desired. Viewed alongside its other comments about the portfolio, it is unclear whether 
(or not) this statement seeks to extend my conclusion in the PD to cover the precise 
underlying portfolio it recommended. In the interest of clarity, it is the conclusion as 
expressed in the PD that stands for my finding on what HCI should have done and what 
would have happened with suitable advice. That conclusion was  On balance, I consider that with suitable advice she would have behaved differently. As I
said above, she should have been advised to retain and rebalance the AP. I have not seen
evidence to say or suggest she would not have done that, if advised to. It is not possible to
say precisely how the rebalancing would have been done. She gave no instruction to return
the AP to its state before the move to cash, so if HCI had suitably advised her to retain and
rebalance the AP, it would have exercised its advisory discretion to determine how that could
be suitably done. It is impossible to say what the outcome would have been.
I did not find evidence to determine what, precisely, the portfolio would have looked like with 
suitable advice  hence the conclusion quoted above and the use of a market benchmark in 
the provisional redress orders that followed. There is still no evidence of what, precisely, the 
portfolio would have looked like with suitable advice. HCI argues otherwise in point 4, but I 
address that below. Its argument also presents a conflicting position and the portfolio cited in 
relation to it cannot safely be relied upon. I also address these issues below.
Point 3
HCI appears to have misunderstood and/or misrepresented the quote  Only investment-
related fees can be considered in the context of the suitability of advice.
It is clear from the PD that all costs incurred by Ms R in the pension switch were/are relevant 
to its suitability. This is what was meant by investment related fees. Ms R did not approach 
HCI for the sake of the AP wrapper alone, her approach related to the underlying 
investments in the AP (and their performance). HCIs pension switch advice was not for the 
Standard Life SIPP wrapper in isolation, it featured the underlying investment portfolio for the 
SIPP. In other words, the entire affair was investment related and I consider it wrong to 
suggest otherwise.
Point 4
This point appears to have been made for the convenience of HCIs rebuttals, but it stands in 
stark contrast to what the adviser said to Ms R at the time of advice. On balance, there is 
more weight in evidence of what the adviser said to Ms R in 2020 because that advice is the 
subject of her complaint  the subject is not what HCI says now to define the advice.
In the PD I said  
Overall, it was clear that the SIPP was to be more expensive than the AP, and that HCIs
ongoing servicing of the SIPP was to be more expensive than the cost of the previous firms
servicing of the AP. HCIs recommendation letter to Ms R readily and repeatedly stated this
in a number of pages (within the main letter and its appendices). The pension comparison it
conducted showed that  based only on charges, without including investment performance
and based on all three assumed growth rates that were used in the comparison  the SIPP
was to under-perform the AP by around 5%, and that the under-performance was to take the
SIPP into capital loss. Indeed, HCI concluded the following  If you based your assessment
solely on charges then it would not be advisable to transfer. [my emphasis]
As stated, and emphasised, in the above quote there is ample evidence that the adviser was 
transparent about the conclusions of his assessments and comparisons  which were that 
the SIPP alone would be more expensive that the AP, and that HCIs service would be more 
expensive than Ms Rs previous advisers service. He explicitly told her that based on 
fees/charges alone the switch was unsuitable. Irrespective of underlying invested funds, this 
was the position. I do not accept the argument in point four. What HCI has presented as a suitable SIPP 
portfolio (following a suitable pension switch) that would have been the same as a suitably 
rebalanced AP portfolio with broadly the same overall costs level, is not credible. First, 
without the switch the overall costs to Ms R would have been notably lower  as above, this 
has been established on evidence and in the advisers statements. 
Secondly, the SIPP portfolio cannot reasonably be viewed, or relied upon, as being the 
same portfolio that would suitably have been recommended for the AP. The PD cited 
evidence, from the time of advice and from the information used by the adviser for the 2020 
advice, that showed the portfolio recommended for the SIPP had poorer relevant past 
performance than the APs portfolio (prior to the move to cash). In other words, an 
implication was that it was unlikely to perform better than the APs previous portfolio. The 
evidence is as summarised in the quote in the previous section. Also from that quote, I 
concluded  
Overall and on balance, the APs portfolios performance prior to the move to cash 
supported more promising prospects for the future than the SIPP portfolios 
The AP was cheaper and its portfolios performance (when invested), up to May 2020, was 
better than that of the portfolio it was considering, so there was cause to take the view that 
its future potential was also likely to be better. These served as reasons for her to remain 
with the AP and switch funds within it to try to recapture where it was prior to the move to 
cash, or to try to achieve a better position. [my emphasis]
In this context, and especially the part emphasised, I do not find that the proposed SIPP 
portfolio would have been the same portfolio suitably recommended for rebalancing in the 
AP. It might have been the same portfolio the adviser would have recommended for that 
purpose, but it probably would not have been suitable. 
For these reasons, and contrary to HCIs submission, it has not been established that a 
suitably rebalanced portfolio for the AP would have had the same fund costs as those in the 
SIPP portfolio. I retain the view that precisely what that AP portfolio would have looked like is 
unknown  hence use of the market benchmark for redress.
Point 5
I agree, Ms R needed initial and ongoing advice and costs would have been, and were, 
associated with both. The PD acknowledged this. As I said in the PD, I do not have the 
evidence to properly determine whether (or not) the initial fee facing Ms R would have been 
less if limited to rebalancing the APs portfolio, as opposed to a full pension switch (and 
reinvestment thereafter). However, I retain the view that such lower costs would possibly, if 
not probably, have been the case. This stands to reason, given the lower volume of work 
required in rebalancing within an existing portfolio, compared to work required in switching a 
pension and establishing and populating a new portfolio for it.
Point 6
In the PD I said  
The recommendation letter presented two main reasons why the switch was to be viewed 
as suitable, despite the increased costs. HCI considered that the APs portfolio lacked the
facility for regular fund reviews/fund switches, whereas the SIPP had such a facility; and HCI
broadly considered that the portfolio it recommended for the SIPP could perform better.
As quoted in the previous section, I then proceeded to show how available evidence defeated the two main reasons used by the adviser to justify his advice. Nothing in HCIs 
arguments (in point 6 or elsewhere) gives me cause to reconsider this conclusion or the 
evidence it rests upon. Indeed, HCI appears to have volunteered a concession that adds to 
this conclusion by saying  the available funds with Aviva are essentially the same as the 
funds that were available with Standard Life . This means it accepts the fund switches 
favoured by the adviser could have been done in the AP.
Point 7
I consider that the issue this point seeks to treat has been sufficiently addressed in the 
relevant sections of the PD and in my response to Ms Rs re-submitted claim for a refund of 
fees.
For the sake of clarity, I disagree with HCIs comment that the PD agreed the adviser  
gave the correct advice to remain invested and not panic when the market dropped again. 
This was not quite what I said. I concluded as follows  
As I have summarised above, there was merit in the advisers concerns about a
knee jerk reaction to the state of the SIPP. For the sake of completeness, I nevertheless
consider that a form of rebalancing should still have been considered and pursued at the
time. However, his concerns about locking in losses that could otherwise have been
reversed as the market developed was a reasonable one and that could have been
addressed within the rebalancing considerations. [my emphasis]
As emphasised above, the view in the PD was that the adviser should have considered and 
pursued a rebalancing of the portfolio at the time, and that his concerns about locking in 
losses could have been addressed within the rebalancing exercise. This is not quite the 
same as saying he  gave the correct advice to remain invested and not panic when the 
market dropped again. 
Point 8
Nothing in the PD sought to hold HCI responsible for, or punish it, for investment poor 
performance. Furthermore, nothing in the present decision does that. 
In simple terms, it misguided Ms R and gave her unsuitable advice in 2020, and when in 
2022 it had an opportunity to review the portfolio associated with its initial advice it did not do 
so. The initial failure and the sum effect of both failures inevitably had consequences for her 
and her pension, and that must be redressed. The PD explained this, and some of that 
explanation has been quoted above. The same explanation and orders, in full, are used 
below. On balance, I do not consider that HCIs arguments have shown that it is fair and 
reasonable to abandon the PDs provisions for redress and to substitute them with the 
alternative it proposes in point 8.
With regards to the benchmark, it is clear from the contents of the PD that my first 
consideration was whether (or not) a natural redress benchmark exists to be used. Such a 
benchmark does not exist in this case and I addressed the reasons why in the PD, and in my 
findings above. In the alternative, a market benchmark is needed, to serve as a basis for 
calculating how Ms Rs pension portfolio would probably have performed had she been 
given suitable advice at the outset.
The benchmark selected below has not been chosen because of bias against HCI and it has 
not been chosen arbitrarily. Like there was in the PD, there is a sub-section below that 
explains why it has been chosen. It is neither said nor suggested that the APs portfolio was benchmarked against it, and it is not said or suggested that Ms R took income from the SIPP 
portfolio. The specific benchmark is commonly used within this service as a broad indication 
of how suitable investments for a balanced investor would probably have performed. This is 
the purpose served by its use in the present case.
Conclusion
I uphold issues 2 and 3.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put Ms R as close as possible to the position she would 
probably now be in if HCI had not given her unsuitable advice to switch her pension 
arrangement.
On balance, I consider that with suitable advice she would have behaved differently. She 
should have been advised to retain and rebalance the AP. I have not seen evidence to say 
or suggest she would not have done that, if advised to. It is not possible to say precisely how 
the rebalancing would have been done. She gave no instruction to return the AP to its state 
before the move to cash, so if HCI had suitably advised her to retain and rebalance the AP, it 
would have exercised its advisory discretion to determine how that could be suitably done. It 
is impossible to say what the outcome would have been.
As such, I do not find that there is a natural redress benchmark to use in this case. Instead, I
am satisfied that redress to Ms R should be based on the benchmark in the table below,
which matches her balanced ATR. I consider that the redress I have set out below is fair and
reasonable given her circumstances at the time of advice. The start date for the redress
calculation will be when the pension was switched to the SIPP and the end date will be the
date of settlement. The effect of the unsuitable pension switch continues to date, so the
calculation must reflect this.
Ms R is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with HCI to provide it with all 
information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, that it does not already 
have. 
To compensate Ms R fairly, HCI must do the following:
Compare the performance of Ms Rs SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid to her in 
compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
HCI is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it 
must tell Ms R the deduction amount and give her a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, for her to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Ms Rs pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into her 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
compensation (and any interest) cannot be paid into her pension plan, pay it directly 
to her. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using her actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her selected 
retirement age. For example, if she is or is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If 
she has been or would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
Provide the details of the calculations to Ms R in a clear and simple format.
Pay Ms R £2,000 compensation for trouble and distress.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Ms Rs 
Standard 
Life SIPP 
(portfolio)still 
exists    FTSE UK
Private Investors 
Income Total Return 
Index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index)date of 
switch to 
the 
Standard 
Life SIPPdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations
simpler, I will accept if HCI totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ms R had a balanced ATR.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It is a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms Rs balanced ATR can be found in this benchmark. It broadly 
reflects the sort of return she could have obtained from the AP, with the same ATR, 
had it been retained and rebalanced. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000, £375,000 or £415,000
(depending on when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to
us) plus any interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds thecompensation limit the respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such
balance is not part of my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and
it is unlikely that a complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such
balance. A complainant may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in
this respect before deciding whether to accept the decision.
In Ms Rs case, the complaint event occurred after 1 April 2019 (it happened in 2020) and
the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 2022, so the applicable compensation limit
would be £375,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Rs complaint. I order H C I Financial Services 
Limited to calculate and pay her redress (and compensation for trouble and distress) as set 
out above, and to provide her with a calculation of redress in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman