DRN-3819946
The complaint
Mr W complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by 
Carnwyllon Wealth Management Ltd (CWM, the respondent business in this complaint) 
and another financial business (which Ill call Firm B). He believes that the advice provided 
was unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The 
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or 
a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr W was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the 
security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so he contacted 
CWM. Mr W met with CWM in October 2017, during which it gathered information about 
his financial circumstances. But as CWM didnt hold the relevant permission from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of his defined benefits in the 
BSPS, it referred Mr W to Firm B.
Firm B carried out further fact-finding and completed a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS). Firm B then sent Mr W a recommendation letter on 28 November 2017 advising 
him to transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension plan. It recommended he invest the 
funds with a business Ill refer to as M. £424,644.71 was transferred to his new pension 
and was invested with M. Mr W was referred back to CWM for ongoing advice and 
servicing of his pension.
In 2019 I understand Mr W complained to both CWM and Firm B about the advice.
Firm B has gone into liquidation so Mr Ws complaint about this business will need to be 
considered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
CWM told Mr W it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it 
had referred him to Firm B.
Mr Ws representative asked our service to consider his complaint, saying CWM should be 
held liable for the advice. The representative said that CWM took the lead in the meetings 
and Firm B had very little involvement. It said Mr W had been verbally advised to transfer 
by CWM and he had relied on its advice to transfer both the pension and how to invest the 
pension. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded that CWM had 
advised Mr W to transfer his pension  he was satisfied that Mr W had only transferred 
his pension because Firm B advised him to do so. The investigator thought Mr Ws 
alleged loss had ultimately arisen due to Firm Bs actions.
Mr Ws representative didnt accept this. It maintained CWM had recommended that Mr W 
transfer his BSPS benefits to the pension plan with M and that CWM should be held liable 
for Mr Ws loss. It added that CWM didnt treat Mr W fairly by referring Mr W to Firm B as 
it should have known that defined-benefit pensions were valuable. The representative 
also said it was a joint venture between the two businesses, evidenced by the advice fee 
being split between the two firms.
As Mr W didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
Mr Ws representatives says CWM should be held liable for the advice on three grounds:
CWM verbally advised Mr W to transfer his pension and Mr W relied upon that 
advice despite Firm Bs involvement  CWM should be held accountable for that 
advice.
There was a joint venture between CWM and Firm B and there is authority from 
our service and the courts to support joint liability for the advice.
Even if CWM is not liable for the losses as a result of Mr W transferring out of 
the BSPS, CWM was still obliged to treat him fairly and have due regard to 
his best interests.
Ill address each point in turn.
Did CWM advise Mr W to transfer?
Mr Ws representative says that CWM should be held liable for the advice because it went 
beyond its role of introducer. It says CWM persuaded Mr W to transfer his BSPS benefits 
and take out the pension with M before Firm Bs involvement and Mr W relied on its advice. 
It says this is supported by the fact the application form for the pension with M was signed 
in October 2017, before Mr W received advice from Firm B. It also says that a pension 
transfer questionnaire, also signed in October 2017, addressed Mr Ws concerns about his 
BSPS benefits and it could only have been completed by CWM.
CWM did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit 
occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an introducer agreement in place 
with Firm B. I understand there were a sizable number of customers seeking advice on 
their BSPS benefits who were introduced by CWM to Firm B. I note that Mr Ws 
representative has said there is a pattern of behaviour that can be drawn from this. This is 
because the majority of these customers were advised to take out the pension with M, and 
many say that CWM sold this product to them before any involvement of Firm B. However, 
in considering Mr Ws case, Ive made my decision based on the evidence available to me 
in respect of Mr Ws interactions with CWM.Having considered the information available, Im not persuaded there is sufficient 
evidence to show that CWM advised Mr W to transfer his BSPS benefits. Based on what 
Ive seen, CWM met, or at least spoke with Mr W, on a couple of occasions and it 
completed a fact-find and attitude to risk assessment. CWM didnt gather any information 
about Mr Ws objectives and I havent seen any evidence to show that CWM gave Mr W a 
personal recommendation. The fact find said that Mr W wanted pension advice and he 
would be referred to firm B for this. 
However, I do think its likely that CWM was operating on the presumption that Firm B 
would probably advise Mr W to transfer out of the BSPS. I say this because Mr W signed 
the applicatinon form and pension transfer questionaire before he met with Firm B. So 
CWM was likely assuming that the transfer would go ahead. So, I think its possible Mr W 
had the impression that CWM was advocating for the transfer of his BSPS benefits to a 
personal pension. But I dont think that necessarily means CWM advised Mr W to take out 
the pension with M.
I think it was most likely CWM that introduced the product with M to Mr W and the adviser 
probably discussed the benefits of this with him. It seems that a lot of the intial information 
gathering documents had additional notes that were added by Firm B at at later meeting 
between all the parties. 
But ultimately Im persuaded that it was Firm B that recommended the pension plan with 
M and the transfer of his BSPS benefits. Mr W says Firm B took a back seat, but the 
evidence Ive seen shows that a meeting took place on 5 November 2017 where Firm B 
reviewed the fact finding documents that CWM had completed. The pension transfer 
questionnaire was signed by Mr W on 26 October 2017 and reviewed again by firm B on 
5 November 2017. Both of these documents were signed by the Firm B on 
15 November 2017 afer it had reviewed the documenation and was ready to give advice. 
So, I think CWM had introduced Mr W to Firm B by that point and Firm B had started 
gathering the information it needed to give Mr W advice.
I note the application form for the pension was signed by Mr W in October 2017, which 
included the details of Mr Ws BSPS benefits to be transferred. Although this was before 
Firm B produced its recommendation letter in November 2017, I dont think that means the 
pension with M was recommended by CWM. It seems more likely to me that the application 
was made early in view of Ms deadline for new applications. Firm B annoted the 
application form to say it had given advice on 14 November 2017. So, although signed by 
Mr W before the advice was given, it wasnt submitted to M until Firm B became involved. 
And while Firm B didnt produce the recommendation letter until late November 2017, it 
appears to have already decided by that point that it was going to be recommending Mr W 
transfer his BSPS benefits to M. So, while it was CWM that did some of the early fact 
finding and documentation, I think it was only because of Firm Bs involvement that Mr W 
applied for the pension with M and transferred his BSPS benefits to it.
Mr W says he relied on his interactions with CWM when deciding whether to transfer his 
BSPS benefits. But Mr W couldnt have transferred based on these interactions with CWM 
alone. The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated that Mr W 
would be required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial advice if he 
wanted to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. This requirement was 
repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that Mr W would need to 
provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had been given. It is clear 
to me, based on the evidence Ive seen, that CWM did not issue any recommendation 
letter or suitability report to Mr W advising him to transfer out of BSPS. However, Firm B 
issued a suitability report addressed to Mr W recommending that he transfer out of the BSPS to a pension with M. So, Mr W couldnt have transferred out of BSPS based on the 
meetings he had with CWM or any verbal advice he feels he was given.
I accept that CWM received a substantial part of the advice fee following Mr Ws transfer, 
as a result of it introducing Mr W to Firm B. But, ultimately, Firm B gave the advice for Mr W 
to transfer, and I dont think CWMs earlier involvement automatically makes CWM liable for 
the suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm B. 
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr W would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm B had advised him not to transfer. 
Mr Ws representative says Mr W was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions 
with CWM. But on balance I dont think Mr W wouldve gone against the advice provided by 
Firm B.
Mr W was a relatively inexperienced investor and the risk assessments showed him to 
have a cautious to balanced attitude to risk. So, if Firm B had provided Mr W with clear 
advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont 
think Mr W wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions 
with CWM.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Bs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr W to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm B is responsible 
for Mr Ws losses flowing from the transfer. This includes the advice fee Mr W paid to 
CWM.
I dont think CWM needs to refund this because Im satisfied the fee was only payable if 
the transfer of the BSPS benefits went ahead. And as it was Firm Bs advice that led to the 
transfer, this loss flows from that advice. Im aware that Firm B was declared in default by 
the FSCS, so Mr W will need to pursue a claim with the FSCS.  
Did CWM and Firm B embark on a joint venture?
CWM states a joint venture existed between CWM and Firm B to facilitate Mr W 
transferring out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial 
loss Mr W has suffered. It says that the joint venture primarily involved CWM verbally 
advising Mr W to transfer out of the BSPS before introducing him to Firm B to formally 
recommend the pension transfer to a new pension plan, before returning to CWM for 
ongoing advice. Due to the nature of the joint venture and the number of pension transfers 
likely carried out in this manner, the representative wants me to consider what it says was 
a large number of clients CWM introduced to Firm B which may have received a positive 
recommendation to transfer and were returned to CWM for ongoing advice.
I understand why Mr Ws representative has raised this concern  it seeks to establish a 
pattern that evidences the alleged joint venture. But Mr Ws representative will understand 
that the individual details of each case are always different  which is why this service 
decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So, in deciding this complaint, Ive 
only looked at the individual facts and merits applicable to Mr Ws personal dealings with 
CWM. I wont be considering CWMs alleged acts or omissions in other cases where it 
introduced individuals to Firm B. And I wont be considering the acts or omissions of Firm B 
in its dealing with Mr W because this complaint is about CWM rather than Firm B.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
CWM liable for the advice given to Mr W to transfer his BSPS benefits. Firm B didnt fully 
rely on CWMs earlier fact-finding, but instead it reviewed and amended this at a later date. 
It also produced a TVAS report, which CWM did not. CWM didnt have permission from the FCA to advise on pension transfers, so Mr W could only have transferred his BSPS benefits 
as a result of Firm Bs advice. If Firm B had advised Mr W against transferring, I think he 
wouldve most likely followed that advice. So, I think Mr Ws losses flow from that advice, 
rather than because of any interaction he had with CWM before that. For this reason, I dont 
think CWM should be held liable for the advice on the basis that it was a joint venture 
between it and Firm B.
CWM did not treat Mr W fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Ws representative has suggested that CWM didnt treat Mr W fairly or act in his best 
interests by partnering with Firm B. It says this was a conflict of interest  as it did not 
carry out appropriate analysis of Firm B before referring Mr W to it. And there was a 
conflict of interest as CWM would benefit from the transfer. It argues CWM should have 
done so to prevent Mr W suffering detriment, as it ought to have been aware that 
defined-benefit pensions were valuable and that it wasnt usually in a customers best 
interests to transfer out of such a scheme.
As I have said above, CWM did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise Mr 
W on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, I dont think it is fair to say that CWM should 
have advised Mr W against transferring, based on what it may have generally known about 
the regulators starting position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to 
transfer out. As CWM didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr W to Firm B, 
which was regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think CWM could 
reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm B, particularly as Firm B 
had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated 
adviser, it was also required to treat Mr W fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with 
suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was CWMs advice that ultimately led 
to Mr Ws decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm B. I am also 
not persuaded that CWM made an error or treated Mr W unfairly in the role it carried 
out.
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for 
me to require CWM to pay compensation to Mr W or to take any further action in response 
to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman