DRN-2868049
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the valuation Kinetic Underwriting Concepts Ltd placed on her 
motorhome after a claim made on her motor insurance policy. Kinetic has delegated 
authority to act for the insurer in this matter. 
What happened
Mrs Cs motorhome was damaged by fire and declared a total loss. Kinetic offered Mrs C 
£18,500, less the policy excess, as the market value of her motorhome. But Mrs C was 
unhappy that Kinetic didnt consider her research about its value. She thought the 
motorhome was worth £20,000. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Kinetic 
had reasonably used an engineers assessment and market research to reach the valuation 
it offered Mrs C. He thought Kinetic didnt need to consider Mrs Cs own research into 
advertised prices as they were for different motorhomes. 
Mrs C replied that she thought it was unfair for Kinetic to rely on advertised prices when her 
research wasnt considered. She thought the motorhome had been insured for £20,000 and 
Kinetic should honour that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs C wants a fair price for her motor home. Mrs C said the insured 
value of the motorhome was £20,000 and she thought this was what Kinetic should pay. But, 
from what I can see, Mrs Cs policy wasnt an agreed value policy where the consumer and 
insurer agree the value of the vehicle in the case of its total loss. 
Instead, the policy provides the market value in the case of damage resulting in total loss. 
This is set out on page 23 of the policy booklet under Claims: 
If Your policy is not Agreed Value the most We will pay will be:
i) the market value of Your Vehicle just before the loss or damage (including its accessories 
and spare parts); or
ii) the cost of repairing Your Vehicle but not exceeding the market value
Mrs C thought her motorhome would have kept its value despite it being 20 years old. Mrs C 
also said that she cant replace her motorhome with one of a similar specification with 
Kinetics offer. But her policy doesnt provide for a replacement motorhome. It provides the 
market value of the motorhome in the case of its total loss. So Ive to consider whether 
Kinetics offer for its market value was fair and reasonable. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to motor valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for vehicles but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Kinetic wasnt able to find a valuation for Mrs Cs motorhome in the motor trade guides we 
use. Our investigator found one valuation but disregarded it as it was very low and out of 
keeping with Kinetics offer. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
approach.
Kinetic then had an independent engineer assess the value of the motorhome and he said 
its market value was £15,000. Mrs C thought this was too low, and I think Kinetic then 
reasonably undertook its own market research into similar motorhomes. It then took an 
average of the advertised prices it found for motorhomes of a similar specification and 
condition. 
Mrs C questioned why Kinetics research had been considered, but not her own. I think 
Kinetics research considered motorhomes of the same or nearly the same model as Mrs Cs 
motorhome. Mrs Cs adverts were for different models. So I cant say that it was unfair for 
Kinetic to not consider them. 
I think that, in the absence of valuations from the motor trade guides, Kinetics approach was 
a fair and reasonable method for reaching a fair assessment of the pre-loss market value of 
Mrs Cs motorhome. So I think that Kinetics assessment of the pre-loss value of Mrs Cs 
motorhome was fair and reasonable and I dont require it to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman