DRN-1388137
The complaint
Ms R complains about an administrative error with her annual statement from Yorkshire 
Building Society (YBS).
What happened
Ms R received an annual statement for her savings accounts, which was signed by the 
branch manager. Unfortunately, the branch manager had left YBS weeks before the 
statement was sent. Ms R is unhappy that the statement was not signed by the correct 
branch manager. She would like the branch to send new statements to all members of that 
branch and for the information of the branch manager to be updated urgently.
YBS has acknowledged that this was an administrative error. It said that the letters were due 
to be sent out in a batch so were prepared several weeks before the branch manager left. 
Once these templates were set, they were unable to change the name of the branch 
manager. It paid Ms R £58 compensation for any upset caused and to cover the cost of her 
phone calls and visits to branch.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the statement was 
still a valid statement, despite the incorrect name so had no detrimental impact on Ms R. 
And he didnt feel it was reasonable to tell the branch to issue new statements to Ms R or 
other members of the branch. He also believed that YBS had fairly compensated Ms R for 
any distress, inconvenience and costs incurred as a result of this issue.
Ms R didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
I understand that Ms R would like me to ask the branch to reissue the statements to all 
members with the correct branch managers name. And shes commented that the branch 
managers name shouldnt have been at the bottom of the letter as he was no longer an 
employee of YBS  and may not be aware that letters are being sent out in his name. But 
those are wider issues with YBSs members and with an individual who was an ex-
employee. My role is to comment on Ms Rs complaint and consider how YBSs actions have 
impacted Ms R as an individual, so I wont be commenting on Ms Rs wider concerns.
YBS has confirmed that the statement it sent Ms R is still a valid statement and there is no 
suggestion that any of the financial details on that statement are incorrect. YBS has provided 
a reasonable explanation of how this error occurred  that the statement template was 
prepared several weeks in advance, before the branch manager left. So it was his signature 
that was set up because he was the acting branch manager at the time the letter template 
was set up. Ms R hasnt explained how this issue has impacted her as an individual and YBS has already explained that it has now corrected the issue and reimbursed her for the 
costs involved in raising the complaint. And it has compensated her for any upset this letter 
caused. So, I think YBS has done everything it needs to do to put things right and I wont be 
asking YBS to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman