DRN-2370991
The complaint
Miss P complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited mis-sold a decreasing 
term life and critical illness policy to her in 2003.
What happened
Miss P applied for a mortgage in April 2003 and met with a representative of Legal and 
General at this time. Legal and General recommended a decreasing term assurance policy 
with critical illness benefit. The sum assured was £99,745.00 for a term of 25 years and was 
in line with the mortgage amount and term. The policy started on 24 June 2003.
Miss P has complained to Legal and General that she had wanted life and critical illness 
cover for the whole of her life, and that the April 2003 policy was mis-sold.
Legal and General provided a final response and said the policy sold was suitable to cover 
the mortgage she was taking out at the time. Legal and General didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss P was unhappy with the response from Legal and General and brought her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss P and thought the policy was suitable. The 
investigator said it matched the mortgage amount and term. And that it was clear from the 
policy schedule it wasnt a whole of life policy. 
Miss P didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide her 
complaint. Miss P believes the policy was unsuitable as it has left her with a policy that will 
have no benefits after it ends in 2028. She says that no other options were discussed or 
presented to her at the time. Miss P believes Legal and General shouldve recommended a 
whole of life policy as she couldve amended her life cover as time went by. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and I think he set out matters clearly and 
thoroughly. 
Although Legal and General say there is no fact-find or suitability letter as they werent 
required at this time, they have provided the electronic submissions made by their 
representative. These show Miss P was in the process of taking out a mortgage in her name 
for £99,475 over 25 years, and they had recommended a decreasing term cover policy with 
critical illness. I cant say that this policy was unsuitable. It covered the amount borrowed 
and it provided cover for the term of the mortgage.
Miss P says that she asked for a whole of life policy, but Legal and General didnt discuss 
this option with her. She says she wanted life cover in general, and not something to 
specifically cover her mortgage. However, Miss P was sent a copy of the policy schedule 
and this clearly indicated the cover was for the amount and term of the mortgage she had 
applied for. As Miss P didnt raise any concerns at the time, it seems more likely than not the 
intention was to protect the mortgage rather than cover for the whole of Miss Ps life.
I can understand Miss P feels that Legal and General shouldve recommended a whole of 
life policy, but we wouldnt normally consider this type of policy to be any more suitable to 
protect a mortgage. A whole of life policy may be used to provide general life and critical 
illness cover, and I have no doubt that if it was regularly reviewed it would provide cover for 
the whole of Miss Ps life. However, in these circumstances, a decreasing term cover policy 
was a suitable recommendation as it protected the mortgage Miss P was taking. As Legal 
and General recommended a suitable policy, I cant agree that it was mis-sold to Miss P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman