DRN-4024228
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make with 
his credit card.
What happened
Mr G contacted Santander in July 2022 to report fraudulent payments using his card. He 
says some were to a train ticket retailer hed also made genuine payments to and the others 
to a business group that provides both taxis and food delivery. He says hed never used it 
with this card and not for food delivery at all.
Santander recorded that Mr G had disputed 31 payments coming to a total of over £590. It 
said that it wouldnt be making a refund because Mr G had a long-standing relationship with 
both merchants across his accounts with it. And because it didnt have evidence to suggest 
the payments werent authorised. It invited Mr G to contact the merchants and obtain 
evidence that the payments werent related to him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the 
information from Santander about the disputed payments for train tickets showed that these 
were made with an additional level of security. And there was a match to the device details 
and IP address that Mr G had used before. There was no point of compromise found for his 
device. He had previous dealings with the merchants. Mr G said a replacement card also 
had similar payments taken which would mean both would need to have been compromised. 
And the refunds shown for some of the payments wasnt consistent with the actions of a 
fraudster.
Mr G didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He maintained he hadnt made 
the payments and that he hadnt used the food delivery service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, say with card details. Where credit is involved, as is 
the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card.  
Ive looked at the audit information about these payments. They were made using Mr Gs 
card details. And as our investigator has said the payments for the train tickets used strong 
customer authentication and three of them recorded the details of Mr Gs device number. Im 
satisfied that all the payments were authenticated.
The issue is whether Mr G consented to them. Hes not provided any explanation of how his 
device could be used by someone else to make the relevant payments for the train tickets. I 
note that hed made undisputed payments to the other merchant in March 2022 using this 
card and referred to generally using another account for such payments. Ive listened to the 
call he made to Santander to report the dispute and he told the person he spoke to that the 
March payments were all fine. He was following the review of the payments during that call 
by looking at his statements. 
I take into account that the average payment size was relatively small and that he had a 
significant limit on his credit card that was only partly used. And that the payments took 
place over a period of time. While in total they came to a sizeable amount Id expect a 
fraudster in possession of Mr Gs security information, and it seems able to use strong 
customer authentication to take as much money as quickly as possible. Such a fraudster 
would risk detection especially at the next statement date. It is unclear why Mr G didnt 
notice what he says were out of character payments for him sooner. I also dont see why the 
refunds made before he reported the fraud would feature as part of the actions of a 
fraudster.
Mr G accepts he had a relationship with both merchants but says that these payments didnt 
come from his online accounts with them. Hes provided screen shots of all his train ticket 
purchases and has shown that he didnt get far with the other merchant in establishing what 
happened. Hes reported further payments after his card was replaced and that would mean 
that a third party would have needed to be able to obtain and use his details again.
In deciding on whether he consented to the payments I need to think about the reliability of 
his testimony as a whole and whether a third party unknown to him was able to access his 
security information and device at times and make all these payments without his 
knowledge. I need to consider whether thats the most likely explanation as I wont be able to 
say exactly what happened with all the payments. Im afraid having considered all the 
information I dont conclude that the payments were made without his consent and 
authorisation.
So, I know hell be disappointed when I say that I wont be requiring Santander to take any 
further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman