DRN-2618959
The complaint
Ms G complains about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) dealt with and settled a 
claim she made under her home insurance policy for damage to her property.
What happened
Ms G holds a home insurance policy, which is underwritten by Fairmead. She has cover 
for buildings and contents. But she doesnt have the benefit of cover for accidental 
damage included within her policy.
During the weekend of 26 June 2020, Ms G said the area in which she lives experienced 
high winds and unexpected torrential rainfall. She said this resulted in the valley gutter 
drain on her roof becoming blocked. This led to water ingress through the roof, which 
caused internal damage to walls and furniture within her home.
On 28 June 2020 Ms G requested an emergency call out from a company that Ill refer to 
here as L. L provided Ms G with documentation confirming theyd attended and that 
recent heavy downpour had caused an accumulation of debris to wash into the gutter, 
which had caused it to block. It further stated that it had cleared the gutter drain. It said 
this also been undertaken three months previously.
On 2 July 2020, Ms G contacted Fairmead to report the damage as she wanted to make a 
claim under her policy. It asked her to provide a cause of damage report and photographs of 
her roof, which she provided promptly.
After Fairmead had assessed the information Ms G had provided it repudiated her claim. It 
said it couldnt consider the damage she was claiming for under the storm peril because no 
damage had been caused to the external part of her property. It also told her that, based on 
what L had said about the cause of damage, it thought the damage wouldnt have occurred 
had the gutter not been blocked. 
Fairmead attributed the gutter blockage to a lack of property maintenance and wear and 
tear. And it said it would have looked to cover the internal damage had Ms G been covered 
for accidental damage. But, as she didnt have the benefit of that cover, it couldnt settle her 
claim.
Ms G wanted Fairmead to accept the claim under the flood peril. She disputed that the 
damage had been caused by either a lack of maintenance or wear and tear  she said her 
roof had been regularly checked and maintained. 
In order to remedy the damage caused within her property, Ms G paid around £4000. She 
was unhappy shed had to cover this cost herself and complained to Fairmead that its 
repudiation decision was unreasonable.
Fairmead investigated Ms Gs concerns but it didnt uphold her complaint. In its final 
response correspondence, it explained why it didnt think it had made an error in assessing 
Ms Gs claim. It said there was no evidence of floods or storms within Ms Gs locality at 
around the time the damage occurred. And it maintained its repudiation decision.
Ms G referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided 
by Ms G and Fairmead. But they didnt recommend upholding this complaint because they 
werent satisfied the weather at around the time the damage took place met the conditions 
required for it to be considered a storm. And they said that, because Ms G didnt have the 
benefit of accidental damage under her policy, Fairmead hadnt acted unfairly in repudiating 
her claim for internal damage. But Ms G rejected our investigators view of her complaint and 
requested an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has sent our investigator detailed submissions about her complaint. I want to assure 
her Ive read and considered everything that both she and Fairmead have said when 
reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Ms G has raised as Ive focused 
on what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Ms G wont take that as a 
discourtesy. My approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is 
here, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
My role is to assess whether I think Fairmead made a mistake, or treated Ms G unfairly, in 
how it decided to repudiate the claim she brought. And in reaching a decision about this 
Ive considered everything Ms G and Fairmead have said, Ls opinion on the cause of 
damage and photographs taken of the roof.
Ms G would like Fairmead to reimburse the costs she incurred in remedying the damage 
her property sustained because she believes it was caused by the sudden unexpected 
downpour of torrential rain which lasted all day and also with high winds which 
overwhelmed the drains.
Ms Gs policy with Fairmead provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that 
might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for a 
claim to be successful, Ms G would have to show that the damage shes claiming for was 
caused by one of the perils listed in his policy.
I understand that Ms G wanted Fairmead to assess her claim under the flood peril. But 
flooding is where water penetrates a property after it has risen from ground level upwards. 
So, for gutters to be affected by flood water, the height of the water level would have to have 
been significant. And theres no evidence that happened here. Im therefore not persuaded 
Fairmead made an error in declining to consider Ms Gs claim under the flood peril.
Taking the weather Ms G described in her locality in late June 2020 into account I think this 
claim should have been assessed under the storm peril.  So, Ive thought about whether Ms 
Gs claim for damage should have been settled. 
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1.Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2.Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?3.Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Ms Gs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind. The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to 
recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Ms Gs policy defines the word storm to 
be strong winds of over 47mph which will sometimes be accompanied by rain, snow or 
hail. 
Fairmead goes on to explain that heavy or persistent rain on its own is not a storm 
unless it is a torrential downpour with over an inch of rain in a one hour period (or a 
proportionate amount in a shorter time of the same proportion). Buildings that have been 
maintained in a sound condition will withstand all but the most extreme weather. It is Your 
responsibility to ensure Your property is maintained in a good state of repair.
 
Ms G said she experienced adverse weather conditions during the weekend of 26 June 
2020. But Ive considered weather reports relevant to Ms Gs locality for storm conditions 
from 24 to 30 June 2020. During that period the highest wind speed recorded was 42 
mph, which was on 28 June 2020. The highest rainfall reported was on 29 June 2020 
when there was 6.8 mm (0.26 inches) of rain per hour. 
I know Ms G will feel disappointed by this decision, but I havent seen any evidence of 
storm displacement or damage to the roof area. And, as there are no wind speeds or 
rainfall recorded within the period Ive checked that meet Fairmeads definition of a storm, 
I havent seen enough to persuade me that storm conditions existed at around the date 
that Ms G says damage was caused. 
As Ive been unable to answer question one affirmatively, I cant fairly conclude that the 
damage Ms G reported was caused by a one-off identifiable storm event as her policy 
requires. And this means I therefore cant fairly direct Fairmead to settle her claim for 
storm damage. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I think the adverse weather conditions Ms G 
experienced in late June 2020 exposed a design flaw in the roof and guttering. I say this 
because gutters shouldnt be blocked after every period of heavy downpour  as continues 
to happen at Ms Gs property. 
Ive seen evidence to demonstrate that the roof has been regularly reviewed and maintained 
 most recently in March 2020. So, I dont think the problem with the roof and guttering was 
due to a lack of property maintenance. Instead I think it was, most likely, caused by an 
inherent defect in its design, which has led to problems in rainwater draining away during 
periods of adverse weather. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Gs policy exclude damage arising from faulty design, 
specification, workmanship or materials. This is in common with most home insurance 
policies because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And damage caused by 
defective design isnt unforeseen. 
I can see that Fairmead looked to see if it could cover any of the damage Ms Gs property 
sustained under an accidental damage clause. And I think that was a proper approach for 
Fairmead to take. But as Ms G doesnt have the benefit of accidental damage cover 
Fairmead isnt able to settle a claim for accidental damage. I understand Ms G feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I 
appreciate the reasons why she referred it to our service. But, based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think Fairmead has acted unfairly in declining this claim. So, I wont be asking it to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman