DRN-3538335
The complaint
Miss L complains that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss L under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn that 
she electronically signed in June 2021. She says that she complained to the dealer about 
some issues with the car which I understand it repaired. She says that the cars engine 
seized in December 2021 and it was recovered to a garage which said that the timing chain 
had jumped resulting in internal engine damage. Miss L complained to Moneybarn and it 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. 
Moneybarn then said that it was confident that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Miss L so it would be unable to assist with the repair costs. It said that she 
should collect the car from the garage, settle any invoices and contact its customer services 
team if she wanted to discuss her agreement. Miss L wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
it was likely that there was a fault with the timing chain at the point of supply. She thought 
that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied so she didnt think it would be 
fair to ask Moneybarn to do anything more to resolve Miss Ls complaint.
Miss L has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that the 
timing chain should have been replaced before the car was supplied to her, the dealer 
should have checked the service history and serviced the car to make sure that it was fit for 
sale and its not reasonable to expect there to be some damage to the engine. She says that 
its awful that shes been left this long for it all to be sorted out and shes had to pay for 
public transport because she has no car, all of which has caused her distress. She says that 
the car had to go back to the dealer after a few weeks and the dealer ignored her and 
caused her a wasted journey.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss L - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss L was about seven years old, had been driven for 
102,853 miles and had a price of £6,074;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Miss L says that there were some issues with the car soon after it was supplied to 
her so she returned the car to the dealer  but I understand that those issues were 
repaired and Ive seen no evidence to show that she complained to Moneybarn about 
those issues at that time; 
the cars engine seized in December 2021, about six months after the car was 
supplied to her, and it was recovered to a garage - the cars mileage at that time was 
106,252 miles  so Miss L had been able to drive the car for more than 3,000 miles 
since it was supplied to her;
the garage said that the timing chain had jumped multiple teeth which had resulted in 
internal engine damage and it estimated that the repair cost would be between 
£2,800 and £4,000;
Miss L complained to Moneybarn and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert in February 2022;
the experts report said:  the engine locked up halfway when attempted to rotate 
the engine manually, possibly due to valve to piston contact however further 
dismantling will be required, the cylinder head will require removal to confirm the 
exact cause. We do suspect that this is due to possible timing chain jumping due to 
wear and deterioration which we would consider to be commensurate with a vehicle 
of this age and mileage ... Taking into consideration the time and mileage covered by 
the vehicle since the point of finance inception we do not consider these issues to 
have been present or developing at that point and not subject to failure and not 
subject to failed previous repairs and the selling agent/previous repairer is not 
responsible for the costs;
I dont consider that its likely that Miss L would have been able to drive the car for 
more than 3,000 miles in about six months if it had been faulty when it was supplied 
to her  I consider that the damage occurred when the engine failed in December 
2021 and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the engine 
was faulty when the car was supplied to Miss L;
I dont consider that the dealer was required to replace the timing chain before the 
car was supplied to Miss L but the cars mileage at that time was more than 100,000 
miles so I consider that its reasonable to expect that more issues would develop on 
the car than would be expected for a car with a lower mileage;
the car was advertised with a mileage of 98,000 but the invoice and the conditional 
sale agreement both show that the cars mileage was 102,853 so I consider that 
Miss L was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of the cars mileage 
when she entered into the conditional sale agreement;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss L and I consider that Moneybarn has 
responded fairly and reasonably to her complaint; and
I sympathise with Miss L for the issues that shes had with the car and the repair 
costs that she faces, but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Moneybarn to pay for the car to be repaired, to end 
the conditional sale agreement, to pay any compensation to Miss L or to take any 
other action in response to her complaint.I suggest that Miss L contacts Moneybarn to discuss her options under the agreement and to 
either settle any arrears on her account or to try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement with it for any amount that she owes it. If shes experiencing financial 
difficulties, she should explain those difficulties to Moneybarn. Its required to respond to any 
financial difficulties that shes experiencing positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman