DRN-3557818
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions made as part of 
an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr J made two card payments for £200 and £1000 to Binance as part of scam. Hes 
unhappy Nationwide didnt question these as unusual or stop them while the 
payments were pending. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
This isnt a complaint against who scammed Mr J. Although, as I think both sides will 
agree, theyre the obvious culprit here. Instead, I've got to decide whether it's fair to 
blame Nationwide. Thats not as simple as saying that because Mr J has been 
scammed, Nationwide should refund him. Instead, as an independent decision 
maker, I've got to be persuaded that its also to blame for Mr Js losses.
Mr J made the payments himself, so Im satisfied they were authorised. In line with 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the starting position is that hes liable for 
them.
Mr J has highlighted how this doesnt change Nationwides obligation to take steps to 
protect him from fraud. I agree. But that doesn't mean Nationwide can prevent all 
harm caused by scams, or that its responsible if it doesnt. Instead, Id only expect 
Nationwide to intervene if there's a cause for concern. After all, it also has an 
obligation to promptly make the payments Mr J tells it to. 
Looking at what happened here, I agree with our investigator that the payments 
made werent so unusual or suspicious that I'd have expected Nationwide to step in. 
Mr J highlighted how he hadnt invested in cryptocurrencies before. But I dont think 
that making a new investment is enough to say he was at risk of fraud, particularly 
when he was paying a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. 
Im also not persuaded that the amounts were so unusual that Nationwide ought to 
have been concerned. Mr J made regular payments for £575 as well as a one-off 
payment for £5,000 in the months before the transactions. So I dont consider that 
either of the payments to Binance were out of character with that spending. It follows 
that I dont think Nationwide ought to have intervened. 
Mr J explained that Nationwide should've also acted while the payments were 
pending. But they wouldn't have been able to do anything at this stage  as hed 
made them, Binance was entitled to take that money. 
That means the only thing left that Nationwide could've done was by looking into a 
chargeback claim with Mr Js card issuer, VISA. The scheme doesn't cover every 
dispute about a card payment. Instead, there needs to a right under VISA's rules. 
And here, because Mr J made the payments to Binance and not directly to the 
scammer, I dont think there was a right under VISAs rules that couldve helped him 
get the money back. So I dont think Nationwide acted unreasonably when it didnt 
pursue a chargeback claim. 
So, in all, while Im sorry for Mr Js losses, Im not persuaded that Nationwide is 
responsible for putting them right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman