DRN-2797713
The complaint
 Mr Rs complaint about Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity Company (Elavon) 
relates to non-compliance fees Elavon have charged him in connection with a debit/credit 
card machine rental agreement.
What happened
 Mr R entered into an agreement in October 2016. This agreement is related to debit/credit 
card machine rental and it covers the acquiring services for the processing of credit and 
debit cards in connection with his work, at that time, as a taxi driver. Elavon processed 
transactions received from Mr R in line with the Card Scheme rules and the contract Mr R 
had signed. The actual debit/credit card machine was supplied and maintained under a 
different contract with a different company, not Elavon.
Mr R said he rented the card machine from 2011 to 2016, and then stopped because he 
stopped renting his taxi.
In August 2018 Mr R contacted Elavon to dispute charges that had been raised on his 
account as he had not been regularly using his account since February 2018. Elavon agreed 
to waive some of the fees and Mr R paid a small balance. Elavon dispute that Mr R asked 
them at that time to close his account.
Towards the end of 2019 early 2020 Elavon approached Mr R again to say he owed further 
sums in connection with PCI non-compliance fees. Mr R complained stating that he had 
cancelled the agreement in 2018 but Elavon said it had no record of this and rejected his 
complaint. Elavon did however close Mr Rs account immediately at that time deciding to 
waive the contractual 1 month notice period as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr R was unhappy with Elavons final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there was a lack of 
evidence to show that Mr R had cancelled his account in 2018 but found that Mr R had no 
intention of using Elavon to process transactions and had not used them since 2018. On that 
basis the investigator thought the complaint could have been avoided had Elavon contacted 
Mr R to see if he wanted to continue the agreement, because if they had he would naturally 
have told them he didnt. And the investigator thought that Mr R didnt need to be PCI 
compliant anyway because he wasnt processing any transactions. As a result, the 
investigator was of the view that Elavon should write off Mr Rs debt for the PCI 
noncompliance fees. Elavon didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I issued my provisional decision on 9 April 2021. Elavon didnt accept my decision and 
provided a transcript of a call recording with an Elavon employee JW in August 2018. I have 
not listened to the actual call but there is no reason to doubt that it is not an accurate 
transcription. Mr R did not respond to my provisional decision. 
I shall be focussing on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this and it 
reflects the nature of our service which is an informal alternative to the Court. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive taken 
account of both sides views when considering whether Elavon acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. Where evidence is 
not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the light of the evidence 
which is available. 
I initially said that in the absence of the recorded telephone call Mr R says he made in 
August 2018 and during which he asserts he cancelled the agreement with Elavon, it was 
impossible to say with certainty whether Mr R did cancel the agreement. Now of course I 
have a transcript of a call with JW and I can see that Mr R did not actually say he wished to 
cancel the agreement during that call. But just because he didnt utter the words I wish/want 
to cancel the agreement or I am cancelling the agreement doesnt necessarily mean that 
he didnt.
I think it is important to take the whole of the call into account and having done so I am left 
with a number of clear facts. First, Mr R didnt want to pay any more fees for anything 
associated with the account. Secondly he wasnt going to use the card machine any more as 
he said he was going to smash it to pieces. Thirdly, he was very annoyed about being 
charged the fees as he thought he oughtnt to have been. Fourthly, that he was not using the 
taxi. And finally, that he was not intending on paying the invoiced charges at all.
As I said in my provisional decision I accept that simply not using the account does not mean 
there would be no value in keeping it open, because as Elavon have pointed out Mr R may 
well have still been storing data. 
But Mr R has also said he spoke to two employees and has provided their names. These are 
different employees to JW. Elavon have not disputed that these two named people worked 
for the company, only that there is no record of the call. Elavon have now stated that Mr R 
did not speak to either of the two employees at the time of his complaint but that one of the 
employees tried to contact Mr R after the complaint and on a number of occasions but was 
unable to. 
Whilst it is difficult to prove a negative, Mr R has provided very specific evidence about 
whom he spoke to, and on balance I think he is more likely to be right than wrong. His 
assertion with regards to these individuals is certainly in keeping with the gist of the 
conversation he had with JW. 
I have taken account of the letter Elavon wrote to Mr R in August 2018 when it resolved his 
complaint at that time. I have given some thought to the point made by Elavon that they told 
Mr R in that letter that if he no longer needed the account he should contact their customer 
service team. That is a very telling point, because it indicates to me that Elavon had certainly 
considered that Mr R may not wish to use the account anymore, because they were telling 
him of their preferred procedure for closing the account. They can have only arrived at that 
view by virtue of the call they had either though JW or the other two employees.
I accept of course that there is no written cancellation notice from Mr R following this letter, 
but under the terms of the contract there is no requirement for Mr R to put his request in writing. And, of course given the tenor of the telephone conversation in August 2018 it is not 
surprising that Mr R did not respond as they asked. I can accept that in his mind he had 
ended the contract. Further, Mr R is confident that he put his cancellation request to the two 
named individuals during his call with them. Whether that call was before or after this letter, 
is largely immaterial because I accept Mr R made the call and cancelled the agreement.
Putting things right
So, in conclusion I think Mr R did cancel the agreement in August 2018 either when he 
spoke with the two employees and or when he spoke with JW. In my view it can be 
reasonably inferred from his call with JW that that is what he wanted to do. So, I do think it 
unfair that Elavon now seeks to charge Mr R for non-compliance fees and I think Elavon 
should write off or withdraw the non-compliance fees charged.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity Company shall write 
off or withdraw the PCI non-compliance fees charged to Mr R in 2019/20.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman