The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt tell him that he could have had a savings 
account with a better interest rate than the one he had.
What happened
In 2014 Mr G upgraded his current account to a Club Lloyds account. In 2019 he learned 
that this had made him eligible for a Club Lloyds monthly saver account, with an interest rate 
of 2.5 per cent. This was much better than the interest rate hed had on his standard savings 
account, which was 0.2 per cent. He complained that Lloyds should have told him about this 
during a phone call in 2017 (when he had downgraded from a Platinum account), as he had 
£3,000 in his savings account and he had lost out on the interest payments he could 
otherwise have been receiving. He argued that it was inconsistent and unfair of Lloyds to 
frequently offer its customers loans and credit cards, which would get them into debt, without 
also offering them savings accounts with more favourable interest rates.
Lloyds said it wasnt its policy to tell customers about which other products they could have  
including its loans and credit cards. It said it is for customers to research other Lloyds 
products themselves. Lloyds also noted that since complaining, Mr G had opened a Club 
Lloyds monthly saver account, and was paying £25 a month into it. If he kept that up, this 
would earn him interest of only £3.79 a year.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr G brought this complaint to our Service. He asked 
to be paid the interest he could have had in the tax year 2018-19 (but not for previous 
years).
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that the bank offered a non-advised 
service, and it wasnt within our Services remit to comment on how it marketed its loans and 
credit cards  that was a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority. She said that Mr G 
should have seen the Club saver account on the banks website, as he had used online 
banking regularly.
Mr G said he knew that Lloyds gave a non-advised service, but that its double standard in 
pro-actively offering products which increase its customers debts while not also offering 
them savings accounts with better rates was unethical. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1149135reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Lloyds offers a non-advised service  Mr G accepted this at the outset 
of his complaint. Rather, his complaint is that Lloyds should be consistent about how it 
communicates with its customers, by telling them about products which could help them earn 
more interest, and not just encouraging them to apply for products which would increase 
their debt. In various emails, he has described the banks current practice as unfair, 
unethical, and manipulative: done only so that the bank may maximise its profits. In short, he 
says that offering a non-advised service is an unconvincing excuse, because the bank 
departs from that stance when it suits it.
However, it remains the case that Lloyds was not obliged to tell Mr G about the Club saving 
account, and so I cant say that by not telling him, it was in breach of its obligations to him. 
And I cant tell Lloyds to change the way it markets its loans and credit cards. I think that 
would be a regulatory matter, and as such it is a matter for the FCA to consider, not for this 
Service.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman