DRN-3642054
The complaint
Ms P complains that Norton Home Loans Limited asked her for information about her
income and expenditure before theyd allow her to take a payment deferral on her secured
loan.
What happened
Ms P has a secured loan with Norton. On 23 March 2021, Ms Ps daughter called Norton to
ask if Ms P could take out a payment deferral on her loan as a result of the impact the
pandemic was having on her finances. Norton asked if Ms Ps income had changed over the
last 12 months, and Ms Ps daughter explained that it hadnt, as she was in receipt of benefit
payments, but her outgoings had increased as a result of increases in care fees and having
to pay for PPE.
Norton advised that they would need to go through a financial statement to see if a payment
deferral was the right option for Ms P, or if there were other options that might be more 
suitable for her. Ms Ps daughter said she didnt have that information available at the time, 
so Norton said that if Ms Ps daughter could call back once she had the information to hand, 
they could run through the options with her.
Ms Ps daughter asked what other options there were, and Norton said it depends on what
the financial information about income and expenditure shows. They said if the information
shows the loan is affordable, they would ask that Ms P makes the payments as this loan is a
priority debt. Or if Ms P cant afford the full payments, they may look at arranging reduced
payments. They said that if Ms P has any unsecured debts, they would ask that the loan
payments take priority over those. And Ms P should try and agree payment deferrals or
arrangements with her unsecured lenders before doing so on the secured loan.
Ms Ps daughter asked what information would be needed, and Norton explained they 
needed details of Ms Ps monthly income and expenditure. Ms Ps daughter acknowledged 
the next steps and the call ended.
In June 2021 Ms Ps daughter wrote to Norton to complain on her mothers behalf. She said
that as Ms P had been asked about her income and expenditure, shed been worried that 
providing that information would put her home at risk, and could damage her credit file. So
she decided the only option was to continue to struggle to pay the monthly payments.
Ms Ps daughter said since the conversation shed had with Norton in March, shed learnt
that Norton had no right, or legal expectation to ask her mother to provide financial
information in order to grant the payment deferral. And so she thought they should now
apply the three month payment deferral, which could be extended to six months, on Ms Ps
loan that she was entitled to. She said as a result of Nortons actions, Ms P has been unable
to financially recover from the impact of the pandemic, and this has continued to affect her
health conditions.
Norton responded and explained that they could no longer put a payment deferral in place
for Ms Ps loan without it impacting her credit file, as the scheme set up by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) closed on 31 March 2021. They also explained that Ms P was
being assisted by their collections team, and so they still hope to be able to provide her with
support.
Ms Ps daughter responded to Norton and explained that the deadline for the payment
deferral had not expired when she called in March. And if Norton had handled things as they
should have done, Ms P would have been granted a payment deferral in line with FCA
guidelines, so she still wanted Norton to rectify the situation.
Norton explained that theyd asked for information about Ms Ps income and expenditure
during the call to ensure the payment deferral was the best solution for her at the time. They
said they acted in line with the guidelines, as lenders were obliged to ensure that any
payment deferral was in the best interests of the customer. Norton said asking for
information was appropriate to determine that, or whether there were other options they
could explore to help.
Ms P remained dissatisfied with Nortons response and following another email, Norton
issued their final response letter on 6 September 2021. They didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms P asked our service to look into her complaint. She said that if Norton were unable to put
the payment deferral in place now, then she would like Norton to pay her £1,803.06 to cover
the amount she would have saved if a six month payment deferral had been granted. She
could then use that to clear the debts shed accrued in order to make her monthly payments.
Our Investigator considered what had happened, and she didnt think Norton had acted
unfairly. Ms P disagreed with the outcome, so the complaints been passed to me to issue a
decision.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2022. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think it would be helpful to explain that whilst Ms P and her daughter have referred
to their request as a payment holiday, the money was still owed to the loan account. 
The guidance issued by the FCA during the pandemic allowed lenders to grant payment
deferrals to those borrowers who needed them, but whilst those deferrals gave borrowers
temporary breathing space whilst they were impacted by the pandemic, those payments still
needed to be made up somehow after the deferral period ended. Ms P has said that if
Norton are unable to put in place the payment deferral for her now, she would like them to
pay her the equivalent of those monthly payments she says she should have been allowed
to miss. But those payments were always going to be due under the loan agreement, so its
not money that Ms P has paid unnecessarily. If the payment deferral had been granted,
Ms P would have needed to agree with Norton how those payments would be made up at
the end of the deferral period.
The FCA guidance that was in place at the time Ms P requested a payment deferral said that
where a customer was experiencing payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating
to coronavirus and wished to take a payment deferral, a firm should agree a deferral with the
customer provided they were eligible for one. This is unless the firm agreed with the
customer a different option that the firm reasonably considered to be in the best interests of
the customer. The guidance also said that firms could choose to make enquiries they
consider necessary in order to offer an alternative to a payment deferral that is in the
customers best interests, provided this does not cause undue delay.At the time of the call in March, Im satisfied Ms P was eligible for a payment deferral under
the FCA guidelines. In the call Norton did explain that if Ms P was able to make her
payments to the loan, she should be prioritising those over other debts, but they would go
through her financial circumstances to check whether there was a more suitable option for
her based on what she could afford to pay. As Ive already explained, if Ms P was able to
afford the loan payments it was in her interests to continue making her payments  as the
payments would need to be made up at a later date in any event and so it was not in her
interests to delay that if it wasnt necessary.
However, I do think the FCA guidance was quite clear that lenders should grant borrowers
payment deferrals if they were impacted by the pandemic and asked for one, and that they
could make enquiries about a borrowers circumstances to see if there were alternatives
available as long as it didnt cause an undue delay. When Ms Ps daughter spoke to Norton
she made it clear that Ms P could not afford to pay her monthly payments as a result of the
impact the pandemic was having on her. As a result, I think Norton should have granted the
three month payment deferral during that phone call, as Ms P was eligible for one.
I do appreciate that Norton wanted to explore whether there were alternative options that
may have been more suitable for Ms P and her circumstances, but Ms Ps daughter wasnt
in a position to provide the information Norton required during the call to go through those
options.
The FCA guidance said that lenders could make enquiries they consider necessary to
explore alternatives as long as it doesnt cause undue delay. Here, I think it did cause an
undue delay as the information was not available at the time of the call  which was only one
week before the deadline to apply for a payment deferral. Norton did not mention the
deadline or the urgency of providing that information in the call. And nonetheless  I dont
think that information was necessary in order to grant Ms P the payment deferral shed
asked for. So I think Ms P should have been given a three month payment deferral on her
secured loan when her daughter called and requested one on her behalf on 23 March 2021.
Whilst Im satisfied Norton ought to have granted a three month payment deferral in March
2021, I dont think Ms P would have been able to benefit from a six month deferral. The
FCAs guidance said that payment deferrals could only be granted to cover payments due up
to and including July 2021. So once Ms Ps three month deferral ended, she wouldnt have
been eligible for another one. And if she remained unable to afford her monthly payments
after that date, she would have had to engage with Norton about her circumstances to see
what other options may have been available to support her. And that would likely have
required going through her financial circumstances, including her income and expenditure.
I appreciate Ms P is reluctant to provide that information. But if she is still struggling from the
impact of the pandemic as shes told us, then she will need to speak to Norton about that so
theyre able to provide appropriate support.
Putting things right
As Ive explained, whilst I do think Ms P should have been given a three month payment
deferral when she asked for one  those payments would still needed to have been made up
after the deferral period would have ended in June or July 2021. Ms P was able to maintain
her payments, albeit with difficulty and by borrowing from elsewhere. So I dont think it would 
be in her interest for Norton to now refund those payments Ms P made for three months  for 
them to be added back onto the mortgage with additional interest  increasing her debt.
Especially if Ms P is still struggling to afford her monthly payments, as its likely they would
increase as a result of the deferral.However, its clear that the conversation Ms Ps daughter had with Norton caused Ms P
some distress. She was worried about the implications of Norton advising this loan was a
priority debt and that her home was at risk. I can understand that the call with Norton left Ms
P feeling like the deferral was subject to approval. She also had to continue borrowing
money in order to make the monthly payments which could have been avoided had the
deferral been granted. As a result, I think Norton should pay Ms P £300 for the distress and
inconvenience caused by asking for information that was not necessary for them to grant the
deferral, and for not putting it in place when requested.
Norton agreed to pay the £300 award recommended in my provisional decision.
Ms P responded and in summary said:
She would still like the payments she made when she should have had a three month 
payment holiday refunded to her, as its her understanding that doing so would not 
dramatically increase the balance/repayment amount, it would simply extend the loan 
by three months which isnt an issue. 
She would like Norton to refund the three monthly payments without Norton adjusting 
the interest on the account as a gesture of goodwill.
Receiving that refund would clear Ms Ps outstanding debts accrued during the 
pandemic and she could finally move on with things.
Shes now reached state pension age and will never be able to free up enough 
income to make a significant dent in her debts. If Norton had agreed the payment 
holiday those debts would have been significantly reduced or paid off last year and 
would not have accrued as much interest as they now have.
Following the responses I received, I wrote to both parties to explain that I was intending on 
changing the way I felt this complaint should be put right. This is what I said:
Ms P has told us that during the pandemic, she accrued a lot of debt in order to try and 
maintain her mortgage payments and other priority bills. Her circumstances have also 
recently changed and her income has reduced as a result. She's now in an even worse 
position to repay those other debts that have high interest rates attached.
Had Norton put in place the three month payment deferral when requested as they should 
have done, Ms P would have been able to use some of that money to reduce those other 
debts, and she would have been charged less interest on them since then as a result. Now 
ordinarily we would expect a borrower to prioritise secured lending repayments and my initial 
decision was based on the fact that as Ms P was able to make those payments to Norton's 
secured loan - she's better off with that money remaining on the mortgage. But in light of the 
new information provided I do think Ms P would actually have been in a better financial 
position had the payment deferral been agreed, and she had access to those three months' 
payments for her to use on those other debts.
As a result I now think this complaint should be settled in the following way:
-Norton should refund the three months worth of payments Ms P made when the payment 
deferral should have been in place.
-This will increase the outstanding balance, as the payments wouldn't have reduced as 
expected and additional interest would have been charged.
-Norton should also pay 8% simple interest on the refunded amount from the date each 
monthly payment was made, to the date of the refund as Ms P hasn't had access to those 
funds.
-Norton should ensure that Ms P's credit file is not negatively impacted by this re-work of her 
account.-Norton will need to engage with Ms P about how the deferred payments will be made up. 
Ms P has expressed a preference for the term of the loan to be extended in order to keep 
the monthly payment amount the same. But I appreciate Norton will want to discuss Ms P's 
circumstances with her to establish what is going to be affordable and in her best interests.
Norton responded and said, in summary:
The payment deferral rules at the time entitled them to request evidence and to carry 
out an appropriate affordability check to ensure any arrangement was affordable.
They received no further call from Ms P during the qualifying payment deferral period 
and so it was their view that shed chosen not to proceed with the request.
Ms P paid all the payments on time, and they were not aware of a continuing issue 
with her making the repayments.
They are unsure if they would be able to retrospectively amend the credit file to show 
the loan as being up to date when it would have been in arrears  as the payment 
deferral guidelines no longer apply.
They would be happy to discuss extending the term with Ms P.
They are still happy to pay Ms P £300.
Ms P responded and agreed with the outcome reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given much thought to the comments provided by both parties throughout the journey of 
this complaint. Having done so Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld and put right in 
line with my most recent thoughts sent to both parties, for the reasons Ive already 
explained.
Norton have explained why they still believe they treated Ms P in line with the FCA guidance 
that applied at the time. But Ive set out in my previous decision why I dont think thats the 
case, and nothing theyve said has changed my mind about that. 
So Im still satisfied that when Ms P requested a payment deferral in March 2021, Norton 
ought to have granted one. Ive explained previously why I think Ms P would only have been 
entitled to a three month payment deferral as opposed to six months. My mind hasnt 
changed about that.
Norton are right in that Ms P was able to continue making her loan payments. But that 
seems to have been the result of her borrowing money from elsewhere, which she is still 
struggling to repay. She has said that she would have been better off financially if those 
three monthly payments hadnt been made, as she wouldnt have needed to borrow more 
money to afford the secured loan payments, and she wouldnt be in the current financial 
position shes in now. Even with the knowledge that the interest would have been charged 
on the unpaid monthly payments with Norton.
As a result, I think Ms P has suffered a financial loss as a result of Nortons actions and that 
should be factored into the resolution of this complaint.
Putting things right
Having considered all of the evidence and comments provided by both parties, this is how 
Norton should put things right in respect of Ms Ps loan account.- Norton should refund the three months worth of payments Ms P made when the payment 
deferral should have been in place directly to Ms P.
- This will increase the outstanding balance of the loan, as the payments wouldn't have 
reduced as expected and additional interest would have been charged. Im not satisfied 
Norton should waive that interest as its interest that would have been applied to the loan in 
line with the terms, had the deferral been agreed as Ms P wanted.
- Norton should also pay Ms P 8% simple interest* on the refunded amount calculated from 
the date each monthly payment was made, to the date of the refund, as Ms P hasn't had 
access to those funds.
- Norton should ensure that Ms P's credit file is not negatively impacted by this re-work of her 
account. Norton shouldnt have to amend the way its reported Ms Ps loan to credit 
reference agencies if payments were maintained. I dont think it would be reasonable for 
them to now retrospectively report arrears on the account as Ms P was not given the 
opportunity to address those arrears at the end of the deferral period  as the deferral was 
never granted. So, to be clear, Norton should not report any negative information to credit 
reference agencies in relation to the loan conduct from March 2021 to date.
- Norton will need to engage with Ms P about how the deferred payments will be made up. 
Ms P has expressed a preference for the term of the loan to be extended in order to keep 
the monthly payment amount the same. But I appreciate Norton will want to discuss Ms P's 
circumstances with her to establish what is going to be affordable and in her best interests. 
And as Ive explained, its unlikely to be as simple as just extending the term by three 
months, as the balance will be greater as a result of the interest charged on those missed 
payments.
- Pay Ms P £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Norton Home Loans Limited considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell 
Ms P how much its taken off. It should also give Ms P a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and instruct Norton Home Loans Limited to put things right as Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman