DRN-3461085
The complaint
Mr R says Creation Financial Services Limited provided no service when he needed to query 
why a payment he had made wasnt showing on its app.
What happened
Mr R made a payment to Creation on 10 October 2021 and his bank confirmed the money 
had left, but Mr R could not see receipt of the transaction on the Creation app. He says he 
called several times to ask about this, but his calls were never answered. He recalls he 
spent around six hours in total waiting on calls. He also emailed but received no response 
from Creation.
The payment later showed up and Creation refunded the months interest. It did not contact 
Mr R.
Our investigator issued his assessment of the complaint on 30 March 2022. He explained his 
view was based on limited information as Creation had not engaged in the complaint 
investigation. But based on Mr Rs testimony he felt the service was not acceptable and had 
caused Mr R distress and inconvenience. He recommended Creation pay Mr R £150 
compensation. Creation did not respond. The investigator contacted Creation again on 20 
April 2022 to let it know that the complaint would now be passed to an ombudsman for 
consideration. That email had a deadline of 4 May 2022, but no response was received. 
Because Creation hasnt responded to the investigators view or any follow up 
correspondence, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines and
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the
failure by a party to provide information requested;
And that:
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Creation, it is fair and
reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we have from Mr R and to take account 
of its failure to reply to the investigators opinion. 
Mr R was satisfied that Creation refunded the interest it charged after his payment was 
seemingly allocated late to his account, but remains unhappy that the lender never 
answered his calls, that he had to spend over six hours trying to get through and that his 
follow-up email went unanswered. 
He has supplied information showing he actioned the payment using Creations app on 10 
October 2021 and his bank has provided a code showing Creations request for funds 
debited his current account on 11 October 2021. He has then explained he spent hours over 
the next couple of days trying to get through to Creation to ask about the missing payment 
that was not showing on its app. This caused him significant stress and inconvenience. The 
investigator recommended Creation pay Mr R £150 compensation in recognition and I think 
this is a fair award. I am sorry we have not been able to get him an explanation as to why his 
payment was delayed/went missing temporarily. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Rs complaint. Creation Financial Services Limited must put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman