DRN-3128056
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that U K Insurance Limited declined a claim for storm damage under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr and Mrs Ts home was damaged following a storm. Slates fixed to the 
side wall of their house had been damaged and they contacted U K Insurance to make a 
claim. 
U K Insurance sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. He reported that the damage was the 
result of existing maintenance issues, that were highlighted by the wind and rain. U K 
Insurance declined the claim saying this type of damage is classed as being gradual or 
wear and tear, both of which are excluded under its policy terms.
Mr and Mrs T obtained the opinion of a roofer. He said the tiles were in a good enough 
condition to last several more years, and the cause of the damage was the storm. They point 
to an earlier repair to the affected area of tiling, where the entire wall had been tanked. Mr 
and Mrs T say this joined the tiles together in a sheet sealed on both sides top and bottom. 
They say this shows the mortar wasnt the only material holding the tiles in place. They think 
this was overlooked by the surveyor. 
Mr and Mrs T contacted our service. Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. 
He agreed storm conditions were observed around the time of the claim, but that the storm 
wasnt the main cause of the damage. He thought the surveyors view was persuasive, that if 
the mortar wasnt in a deteriorated condition, the damage wouldnt have occurred. 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They say the companys assessor informed them, before looking at 
the damage, that he would not support their claim. They also pointed to a survey of the 
house before buying it in August 2019 where the slates were not identified to be in urgent 
need of repair. They asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
The complaint has been to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I understand this will 
be a disappointment for them, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
My remit is to decide whether it was fair for U K Insurance to decline Mr and Mrs Ts claim 
for the reason it gave. Ive relied, in part, on the expert reports provided to decide whether
Mr and Mrs T have shown that an insured event occurred, and whether U K Insurance has 
shown that it fairly relied on a valid exclusion.
The policy terms confirm cover is in place for damage caused by a storm. When considering 
a claim for storm damage there are three questions I must take into account. 
These questions are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no, then an insurer can generally, reasonably 
decline the claim.
  
The policy doesnt define what storm conditions are. I have looked at the weather reports 
around the time of Mr and Mrs Ts claim. This shows wind speeds of up to 60 mph were 
recorded as well as heavy rain. I note U K insurance, in its final complaint response, refers to 
storm winds and heavy rain that occurred in the area around the time of the claim. I think its 
clear that storm force winds occurred, which isnt in dispute. So, the answer to question one 
is, yes. 
Similarly, damage to exterior tiles is something commonly associated with a storm, so the 
answer to question two is also, yes. 
With respect to question three, this is where U K Insurance has said the cause of the 
damage was the poor condition of the mortar used to fix the wall slates in place. It refers to 
the following policy exclusions:
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
 Wear and tear.
 Maintenance and routine decoration.
Also:
Any damage caused gradually.
To assess whether these exclusions reasonably apply I have reviewed the opinions provided 
by the surveyor and roofer who inspected the damage. The report from the surveyors site 
survey says:
Conservatory: When the surveyor inspected the wall he observed that the damage was 
caused by rainwater ingress over a period of time. 
External: When the surveyor inspected the slate wall he observed that the damage was 
caused by deteriorated mortar works. 
The surveyor has also reviewed the customers roofers statement and advised the following: 
I do appreciate there were storm conditions and that this caused damage, however upon 
arriving I noticed there were slates in the affected area that had been re-bedded with mortar 
that must have previously slipped or become loose. Then when having a closer look at the 
affected area behind the chimney I saw more evidence of previous repairs and two slates 
which were hanging down. The customer believed they had inherited this whereas there was 
evidence of pre-existing issues. The damage is not due to a single, recent event and 
therefore the claim has been declined. Mr and Mrs Ts roofer said:
The slates in my professional opinion would have came [sic] off due to the severity of the 
weather that we have been having as a whole the roof would have lasted a good few years 
before any work would have been needed, the problem needs to be addressed as soon as 
possible as some more severe weather i.e. wind could bring the whole lot down, and as its 
over a road it could cause damage to cars or even worse members of the public if walking 
past.
As there are contradictory views, I must consider which view is more persuasive based on 
the balance of probabilities. 
I have looked at the photos of the damage areas of the wall. There is evidence of slates 
having previously been re-bedded and signs of other repairs. The tiles and mortar do appear 
to be of some age. I also note the signs of dampness internally were identified by the 
surveyor as occurring over a period of time. He says this indicated an ongoing issue. 
The roofers opinion is that the roof would have lasted a good few years before any work 
would have been needed and the damage resulted from the severity of the weather. I agree 
the storm resulted in the tiles being damaged, but I think from looking at the photos the 
surveyors assessment of the main cause of how this damage occurred is more persuasive.
For the storm damage claim to be accepted, the storm must be the main cause of the 
damage. Given the poor condition of the mortar identified by the surveyor, evidenced by the 
photos and signs of previous repairs, this made it more susceptible to damage from strong 
winds. If the slated areas of wall were in a good condition, its likely to have withstood the 
effects of the storm. 
In considering all of this I think U K Insurance has fairly relied on the policy terms to decline 
the claim. This is because the damage likely resulted from a lack of appropriate maintenance 
to address wear and tear issues that occurred over time. The policy terms specifically 
exclude this as a cause of damage.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ts reference to tanking work on the affected wall. However, Im 
satisfied a detailed inspection was carried out to assess the condition of the damaged area. I 
dont think this alters the view that the condition of the slated wall was the main cause of the 
damage, or that this impacts on the decision.
My final decision
For the reasoning explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman