DRN-3195764
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Highway Insurance Company Limited (Highway) incorrectly 
settled a third-party claim against him under his motor insurance policy and failed to contact 
him about it.
What happened
Mr H took out insurance with Highway in May 2019. Highway contacted Mr H in 2020 about 
renewal of his policy. He noticed that the cost of the policy had more than doubled. Highway 
informed Mr H that his no claims discount (NCD) had been affected following an incident in 
June 2019 and that it had paid out on a claim against his policy. It had treated the incident as 
a fault incident, however had not informed Mr H at that time. 
Mr H complained that he hadnt been notified of any claim and disputed that his vehicle had 
caused any damage. Mr H was also concerned about the on-going impact on his premiums.
Highway apologised for not contacting Mr H at the time of the claim however said it wouldnt 
reinstate Mr Hs NCD. It offered £150 compensation for not keeping Mr H up to date. He 
wasnt happy and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered that Highway should have carried out an investigation before 
accepting liability, instead of doing so around a year later. He also thought that Highway 
should have contacted Mr H when it first received notification of a claim. However, he didnt 
think it would have made any difference overall if they had done so. 
Our investigator noted that Highway offered £150 to apologise for not keeping Mr H up to 
date. He felt that this was a fair offer. He agreed Mr H should have been contacted before 
the time of renewal, although he thought that Mr H was aware of the incident in any event. 
Mr H remains dissatisfied with the outcome of his complaint. It has therefore been referred to 
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The service does not to decide questions of liability for a particular incident. Instead, my role 
is to look at whether Highway properly investigated Mr Hs claim. It is also to look at whether 
it reached its decision in a fair and reasonable way in line with the terms and conditions of 
the relevant policy. Apart from its failure to keep Mr H informed, I conclude that it did so in 
the other respects. Ill explain why.
Highway states that the incident was reported to them in June 2019. It was told that Mr Hs 
vehicle had collided with a third-party parked car. Highway accepted that it had settled the 
claim without consulting with Mr H beforehand and based only on the third-partys evidence 
that Mr H had hit their parked car with his motorhome. 
Highway then reviewed photographic evidence received from the third-party which showed 
Mr Hs vehicle at the scene of the alleged incident. It said that the image showed clear paint 
transfer between both vehicles consistent with the third partys version of events. It said that 
it was satisfied from the photographic evidence that Mr Hs vehicle had made contact with 
the third-party vehicle.
Finally, Highway accepted that it hadnt not kept Mr H sufficiently updated and offered a 
compensatory payment of £150 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr H said that he had knocked on the door of the nearby house, to ask the third-party to 
move her car. Mr H stated that his vehicle didnt make contact with the parked vehicle and 
that the third-party couldnt have witnessed anything. He said that there was a witness 
following behind however who would confirm that there had been no impact, however he 
hadnt been contacted by Highway. He also said that there was no paint or markings on his 
vehicle and there would be no evidence of this on the photographs. 
Mr H felt he hadnt been treated fairly by Highway and that, as the damage was minor and 
he hadnt been contacted, he thought that it has been dealt with without insurance company 
involvement. 
Although its not for me to determine liability, Ive considered whether Highway has acted 
fairly and reasonably and considered all the available information and facts before accepting 
liability. In this case, as in most motor insurance policies, there is a term that allows the 
insurer to take over, defend, or settle any claim in the way they see fit. In this case, Mr Hs 
policy terms state as follows; You must tell us as soon as you can about any claim or 
incident that may lead to a claim and give us any information relevant to the claim that we 
may ask forWe can, in your name.. take over defend and settle a claim
I consider it most unfortunate that Highway didnt contact Mr H when it was made aware of 
the third-party claim, whilst also recognising that Mr Hs policy also requires him to tell 
Highway about any incident that may lead to a claim. Ive also considered whether the delay 
in investigating would have affected the outcome of the third-party claim.
Ive looked at the third-partys photographic evidence. I note that Mr Hs motorhome is in 
very close proximity to the third-party parked vehicle and shows that there was little room for 
manoeuvre. Mr H has also accepted that he had driven forward, realised that he didnt have 
enough space, and then reversed to allow the third-party to move the vehicle. The 
motorhome is large in comparison to the third-party vehicle and Mr H may well have been 
unaware of any contact in the circumstances. I also agree with our investigator that the 
absence of corresponding damage doesn't necessarily rule out a collision between two 
vehicles at low speeds.
The photographs show scratches on the third-party wing mirror and wheel-arch with white 
paint visible. I note also from Highways file-notes that it did attempt to contact the witness 
referred to by Mr H but didnt get a response. There is also lack of clarity as to whether the 
witness was Mr Hs friend. Finally, there is a discrepancy between the accounts of Mr H and 
the third-party as to who alerted the third-party that she might need to move her car.
In the light of all the above factors, I agree with our investigator that it was fair and  
reasonable for Highway to conclude that it couldnt defend the claim against Mr H and 
accept liability based on the evidence available to them. This was despite the unfortunate 
lack of communication between Highway and Mr H. I dont therefore require Highway to 
change the way the claim has been recorded or to reinstate Mr Hs NCD.I also conclude that Highways payment of £150 to compensate for its failure to keep Mr H 
informed regarding the third-party claim is a fair and reasonable amount in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Highway Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman