DRN-1725162
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way esure Insurance Limited (trading as Sheilas Wheels) 
(esure) dealt with a claim under their motor insurance policy after an accident involving 
their car.
What happened
Mrs W had a motor insurance policy for her car with esure on which Mr W was included as a 
named driver. In June 2019, while Mr W was driving the car, he was involved in a collision 
with a third party at a roundabout.
Mr W reported the circumstances to esure. He said he was established on the roundabout 
when the third party entered the roundabout and collided with his nearside. Esure explained 
that Mrs Ws policy wasnt comprehensive  it only covered third party fire and theft. So Mr 
and Mrs W would have to take up the issue of damage to their car with the third partys 
insurer (TPI). 
After they had done so, esure contacted them to say that TPI was denying liability. The third 
party had given TPI a completely different version of how the collision occurred which 
suggested Mr W was entirely responsible.
Esure said Mrs Ws policy included motoring legal protection cover. Under this esure was 
willing to assist Mrs W to recover the damage to her car from TPI as an uninsured loss. 
However as there were no independent witnesses to the collision, or CCTV evidence, the 
best it could hope to achieve was 50% of the loss, on the basis of liability being split 50/50.
Mr and Mrs W complained to esure. They said:
esure hadnt done enough to assess the circumstances of the incident before it 
reached this conclusion;
they felt strongly that Mr W wasnt at fault and believed the third party was acting 
fraudulently and had created a false version of events;
on reinsuring with another insurer, the existence of the unresolved claim meant their 
premium was increased by some £200; and
they hadnt been able to afford to hire a replacement car after the accident, but 
thought esure should pay them what they would have spent if they had done so.
Esure acknowledged that its representative had given Mr W misleading information about 
what services would be provided under its motoring legal protection cover. It apologised for 
this and paid Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation for its poor service in this respect.
While it believed Mr Ws account of what had happened, esure didnt have any evidence to 
prove the third partys version of events was false, far less fraudulent. The areas of damage 
didnt support one version rather than the other. In these circumstances a 50/50 split was the 
best that could be achieved in respect of Mr and Mrs Ws uninsured losses. 
No claim was actually received by esure from TPI in respect of damage to the third partys 
car. And Mr and Mrs W agreed that esure shouldnt seek to recover from TPI on a 50/50 
liability basis.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said It wasnt 
our role to decide who was responsible for an accident, but whether an insurer had acted 
fairly when deciding how to settle a claim.
Mrs Ws policy included the following term:
We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which may 
arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for our own benefit. You 
and anyone covered by the policy must provide all the information, documentation and help 
we need to do this.
The investigator said this was a common term in motor insurance policies and wasnt one we 
considered unfair as long as the insurer exercised it fairly and reasonably. In this case, he 
didnt think esure had acted unreasonably because:
there wasnt enough evidence to establish who was responsible for the collision  it 
came down to Mr Ws testimony against the third partys. So a claim would have little 
prospect of success if taken to court;
the third party hadnt pursued a claim against Mr W, and Mr W hadnt pursued a 
claim against the third party or TPI. So as there was no claim on its records in 
respect of the incident, esure had recorded it as notification only. It was up to Mr and 
Mrs Ws new insurer how it dealt with this in assessing the premium it would charge;
if either Mr W or the third party did chose to pursue a claim, on the information it had 
at present esure would look to settle it on a 50/50 basis. But it would do so on a 
without prejudice basis meaning that Mr W could still bring his own claim through a 
solicitor if he wished to do so;
esure had said if further evidence came to light it would be happy to reconsider its 
stance on the claim;
as far as esure making a payment based on hire costs was concerned, he didnt think 
this was reasonable. First of all Mr and Mrs W hadnt actually incurred any hire costs. 
In addition car hire benefit was an optional extra under the policy but Mrs W hadnt 
included this option when  she took out the policy; and
esure had paid Mr and Mrs W compensation of £100 for the misleading information it 
gave them, which he thought was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr W responded to say, in summary, that:
while he recognised esures right under the policy to decide the outcome of a claim, 
he didnt think it had appropriately investigated the circumstances of the accident. 
There had been no engineers report on the damage to the two cars in relation to the 
two versions of events. He thought an examination of the site of the accident would 
have shown that the third partys version was impossible; and
while the policy didnt allow for a hire car during repairs, in the normal course of 
events he thought an approved repairer would have provided one while his car was 
being repaired. Alternatively, if he could have afforded it, he would have hired one 
himself. Either way, he thought he would have ended up paying 50% of the cost, and esure would have stood the other 50%. So esure should pay him the 50% it had 
saved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that I have come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
The main issue that still concerns Mr W is that he doesnt think esure did enough to 
investigate the circumstances of the collision, for example by commissioning engineers 
reports of the damage to the two cars, and comparing these, and the site of the accident, 
against the two versions of events.
Esure has said it does accept Mr Ws version of events. However, to bring a successful 
claim it would need firm evidence. It did consider the damage to the two cars but considered 
this didnt prove one version of events or the other. It had considered the points Mr W made, 
but didnt think further investigations would produce the required proof. I cant say this was 
an unreasonable conclusion for esure to reach.
In relation to the issue of a hire car, this wasnt a benefit that Mr W selected for her policy. 
Its by no means certain that any repairer of Mrs Ws car would have provided a courtesy car 
for the period of time Mr W suggests.
If Mr W had spent his own money on a hire car, recovery of the cost would have depended 
on a claim against TPI. Esure has said it couldnt support a claim of more than 50% against 
TPI. But as things stand, no such claim has been made, and TPI has denied any liability. 
Finally, Mr W didnt actually spend any money on a hire car.
For all these reasons, I cant reasonably require esure to pay any money to Mr and Mrs W in 
respect of car hire.
All in all, for the reasons the investigator set out, I think esure dealt with the incident fairly 
and reasonably in accordance with the terms of the policy, and dont require it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against esure Insurance 
Limited (trading as Sheilas Wheels).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman