DRN-3667565
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has terminated a claim she 
made on her income protection policy.
What happened
In May 2017, Mrs E took out a personal income protection policy with Aviva.
Mrs E is a self-employed barber and the plan covers her in the event that shes unable to 
work on a full-time or part-time basis in any occupation she had in the 12 months prior to her 
incapacity. The deferred period is eight weeks on the plan.
In April 2021, Mrs E stopped working as she was diagnosed with Plantar Fasciitis and 
Mortons Neuroma. This meant that Mrs E could only walk short distances and was in pain 
while standing. She therefore submitted a claim to Aviva as she was unable to work due to 
the symptoms she had.
Aviva accepted the claim in August 2021 and payment was backdated to start from June 
2021.
In April 2022, Mrs E provided an update of her health to Aviva. A review was carried out of 
her social media activity and following this, a surveillance was arranged to be carried out  
over four consecutive days in April 2022.
In May 2022, Aviva wrote to Mrs E and said it had decided to terminate the claim and cancel 
the policy with immediate effect. Aviva said based on the review that it had done, there were 
inconsistencies on Mrs Es reported symptoms and the activities she had been carrying out. 
The surveillance also showed that Mrs E had been working while claiming the policy benefit. 
Mrs E appealed Avivas decision and explained that she had problems walking, spent most 
of the day at home and may have only popped into the barber shop to cut her sons hair or 
for charity. She said she was waiting for a hospital appointment for rheumatoid arthritis. 
Mrs E made a complaint to Aviva. In its final response, Aviva said the policy terms set out 
that cover could be terminated if information was withheld or false information was provided 
that could affect the policy. Aviva also said it had information that showed Mrs E had carried 
out the duties of a barber which meant that the definition of incapacity, as set out in the 
policy, wasnt satisfied. The policy was therefore cancelled. 
Mrs E brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
didnt uphold it. She thought that Aviva had terminated the claim and cancelled the policy in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She also said she was satisfied that Aviva 
had shown Mrs E had provided inaccurate information when they assessed the claim 
regarding carrying out her duties as a barber so she didnt think the claim had been declined 
or that the policy had been cancelled unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mrs E didnt agree and has asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has terminated Mrs Es claim and cancelled her policy. This is because it has evidence 
which shows that Mrs E didnt meet the definition of incapacity and that she provided Aviva 
with information that was untrue or incomplete. Therefore, the key issue that I need to decide 
is whether Aviva has terminated the claim and cancelled the policy in line with the policy 
terms and conditions and fairly and reasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at Mrs Es policy terms and conditions as this forms the basis of Mrs 
Es income protection contract with Aviva. 
Page 9 states:
When we assess a claim, we rely on the information were given. If any of the 
information is untrue or incomplete, we may not be able to pay a claim. If weve 
already paid a claim, it may mean that we can reclaim the money and we wont make 
any further payments. Where any of the information is untrue or incomplete, we may 
also cancel the policy without refunding any premiums.
And page 12 of the policy document sets out what Aviva may do in the event untrue or 
incomplete information is provided. This states that Aviva may cancel the terms of the policy, 
change the premiums payable or cancel the policy and refund the premiums paid. It also 
says in the event that a policy is cancelled, a claim cannot be paid. 
Should the claim be terminated and policy cancelled?
Ill go on to look at the information provided by Aviva and Mrs E. 
Aviva has said its decision to terminate the claim was based on evidence as follows:
In a telephone call with Mrs E on 24 March 2022, she said she was still not well and 
confirmed she had not been working.
Aviva reviewed the ongoing claim and conducted some searches on the social media 
platform and found that Mrs E had been working in the barber shop during the period 
of the claim being paid.
Surveillance was carried out by Aviva over four consecutive days which showed that 
Mrs E worked in the barbers shop cutting hair on three occasions out of the four 
days and was walking her dog in a football field. 
Mrs E completed a review form in May 2022 where Aviva asked to confirm that she 
understands she will need to notify Aviva of any change in circumstances in relation 
to the claim and asked her to confirm if shed carried out duties of her normal or any 
other occupation on a paid or unpaid basis. Mrs E answered No to this question. On 
the same form, Mrs E had to confirm that the information provided to Aviva was 
truthful, accurate and complete. Mrs E agreed with this. 
On 19 May 2022, Aviva had a telephone conversation with Mrs E, and she confirmed 
that she hadnt been working, she was unable to work physically and mentally and that she hadnt been working at the shop. 
Mrs E has said:
She hasnt been well, and she suffers from a lot of pain. She leaves the house to 
take the dog for a walk to help her cope with being at home all day on her own. 
She said shes waiting for a hospital appointment for her rheumatoid arthritis. 
Ive carefully considered the information provided by both parties. Based on this, I agree 
there are inconsistencies in what Mrs E had told Aviva and in what Aviva had found from its 
review of Mrs Es social media platform and from the surveillance. Mrs E was shown to be 
working at the barbers shop and evidence suggests she was cutting hair. Her activity on 
social media seems to match the information provided by the review that she was going into 
the shop to cut hair and the activity taking place related to her work and cutting hair. 
I understand and dont doubt that Mrs E is suffering, and I also appreciate that her medical 
conditions must be challenging. However, my role is to look at whether Aviva has fairly 
terminated her claim. Im looking at the reasons why Aviva has terminated the claim and 
cancelled her policy. Its clear evidence has shown that Mrs E was working in the barbers 
shop both during the surveillance carried out and also from the online search carried out on 
her social media platform. The evidence shows Mrs E was working on two separate 
occasions for four hours at a time. Aviva carried out the review following the benefit being 
paid for a year and the evidence found that Mrs E had withheld information and also hadnt 
provided accurate information about her activity to Aviva when she was asked.
I appreciate Mrs E comments that she may have going into the shop to cut her sons or 
partners hair or that she may have gone in to cut hair for charity. The evidence does 
however show that she had been cutting clients hair. Regardless though, the issue is that 
she did cut hair - whether that was for a family member or a client - which means she didnt 
meet the definition of incapacity but also that she was able to work. And because the 
evidence shows Mrs E was working, she also hadnt provided information which was true or 
complete in terms of her capacity to work. While Mrs E has ongoing medical issues, the 
reason the claim has been terminated was because she hadnt provided information about 
her health to Aviva as would have expected under the policy terms and conditions. I 
therefore dont think Aviva has treated Mrs E unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.  
Overall, taking everything into account, but Im not persuaded that Aviva has terminated Mrs 
Es claim and cancelled her policy outside of whats expected under the policy terms and 
conditions. I also dont it has treated her unfairly or unreasonably. As such, I dont think there 
are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Aviva to reinstate the claim. It 
follows that I dont require Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman