DRN-1304335
 
The complaint
Miss D complains about the interest rate on her credit card with Barclays Bank UK Plc, 
trading as Barclaycard. She feels shes been treated unfairly as the rate shes charged is 
higher than the standard rates and this is unjustified.
What happened
Miss D has had a Barclaycard for many years and has never missed a payment. But she 
believes that shed been given a very high credit limit and has been charged an interest rate 
of 6.3% above the standard rate of 19.9% which Barclaycard advertises.
Miss D wrote to Barclaycard to ask why this was. 
Barclaycard said that it doesnt have a standard interest rate and sets the rate applying 
based on the personal circumstances of its customers and its criteria. It said interest had 
been charged correctly on Miss Ds account, in line with its terms and conditions.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint, but didnt think Barclaycard had treated 
Miss D unfairly. He said that the terms and conditions of the account set out the reasons an 
interest rate may change, and Barclaycard would give at least 30 days notice of an 
increase. The investigator said that Barclaycard had advertised a representative Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR), which was an example of what most accepted customers may get. 
But this was subject the applicants financial circumstances and borrowing history, and it 
said the interest rate may differ from this. The investigator was satisfied that Barclaycard 
didnt have a standard rate which Miss D wasnt being given.
Miss D didnt accept the investigators findings, as she didnt think they took into account the 
actual facts of the matter. She said she wasnt denying the account had terms and 
conditions or criteria, but she didnt feel these had been applied fairly and consistently. She 
said the credit limit Barclaycard gave her was higher than what the majority of customers 
were offered, and this indicated extremely good credit worthiness. She questioned how a 
customer could be considered an exceptionally good customer and a bad risk at the same 
time. She said Barclaycards criteria should be consistent and not contradictory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate the points that Miss D has made, and I can understand why she may have 
felt that she was being treated unfairly with the interest rate that applied to her balance on 
her Barclaycard. But I dont think thats the case here.
In advertising the credit card it offers, Barclaycard shows a representative example of a 
variable APR which might apply to a potential applicant. This doesnt mean this is a 
standard or usual rate that Miss D hasnt been receiving on her own Barclaycard, or that shes been treated differently to other customers. This is because Barclaycard sets the 
interest rate applying to any customer on an individual basis, considering that customer's 
particular circumstances. 
And those circumstances are also a factor in how Barclaycard sets the credit limit for that 
customer; along with the account use and history; and information from credit reference 
agencies. Although Miss D may feel that her credit limit is higher than what she believes to 
be average, I don't think this necessarily means that her standard rate should be lower than 
was set out for her, or that Barclaycard has applied criteria inconsistently.
The terms and conditions of the Barclaycard do use the phrase 'standard rate' and say: 'We 
charge different interest rates on different balances. Your simple standard and cash interest 
rates will move up and down in line with changes to the Bank of England Base Rate...' So I 
can see how it could be interpreted that there is a rate that would generally apply to most of 
those customers. But this is referred to as 'your standard rate' - the interest rate applying to 
that particular customer's account transactions. The terms and conditions don't list the 
specific rate itself but say that this standard rate would be set out on the account holder's 
monthly statements, which I can see it has been for Miss D. 
Taking everything into account, I don't think that Miss D has been treated unfairly or 
overcharged interest by Barclaycard. And I haven't seen that she's incurred any other form 
of charges on her account.
Miss D paid off her credit card balance in November 2018, and this left a residual amount of 
69p on her account. Barclaycard has said that it will arrange for this to be paid directly to 
Miss D if she wishes to provide it with the details of the account she would like it credited to.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman