DRN-3554756
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with The Shepherds Friendly Society Limiteds handling of her claim.
What happened
Miss M held an income protection policy with The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited 
(Shepherds Friendly). The policy was incepted in January 2018.
During 2018, Miss M made several claims on her policy.
The first three claims, for three different medical conditions, were accepted and benefit was 
paid in line with the policy terms. The fourth claim, which started in June 2018, was also 
accepted and benefit continued until June 2020. This claim related to a problem Miss M was 
having with her left shoulder and arm. Miss M provided Shepherds Friendly with medical 
certificates from her GP which showed she was unable to work. 
In early 2020 Shepherds Friendly wrote to Miss M about her on-going claim. It was 
concerned shed been unable to return to work for more than 18 months and the information 
it held about the impact of her condition was limited. It told her it would be asking for an 
independent review of her case.
As part of its review, it asked for information from her GP and information about her financial 
position. When Miss M took out the policy, she said she was self-employed so Shepherds 
Friendly asked to see copies of relevant documents including her tax returns.  
Miss M provided some of the documents asked for but not everything. It took until 2021 for 
Miss M to provide the information Shepherds Friendly needed. And when Shepherds 
Friendly finally received the documents it asked for it said some of the information was 
heavily redacted. That meant it couldnt complete its assessment effectively. Shepherds 
Friendly decided to terminate the claim due to Miss Ms failure to comply with its requests.
During 2020, Miss M also submitted another claim to Shepherds Friendly  this time for 
problems with her right hand. Shepherds Friendly declined the claim. It said Miss M wasnt 
working prior to the period of this incapacity and therefore didnt meet the policy terms.
Miss M complained to Shepherds Friendly. She wasnt happy with its decision to terminate 
the claim for her left shoulder and arm condition. She was also unhappy it hadnt accepted 
her claim for her right-hand problems. In addition, she said Shepherds Friendly employees 
had treated her badly  that they were abusive towards her and were racist.  
Shepherds Friendly considered Miss Ms complaint but didnt agree it had done anything 
wrong. It didnt find any evidence of abusive or racist behaviour towards her. Miss M brought 
her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator considered her complaint but didnt uphold her concerns. He was satisfied 
Shepherds Friendly had handled her claims appropriately and that it was reasonable for it to 
terminate her claim for her shoulder and arm problems. He also didnt find any evidence of 
abusive behaviour by Shepherds Friendly employees.
As Miss M remains unhappy her case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the obligations placed on Shepherds Friendly by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably decline a 
claim.
Ive also carefully considered the terms and conditions of Miss Ms policy with Shepherds 
Friendly as this forms the basis of the contract entered into by the parties. And based on 
everything Ive seen I agree with our investigator and for the same reasons. Let me explain.
Shepherds Friendly are entitled to review continuing incapacity and Im satisfied it did 
so by taking account of the medical and financial information provided to it. 
Shepherds Friendly waited a significant amount of time for the information it 
requested. And as it was then unable to validate Miss Ms on-going eligibility, Im 
satisfied its decision to terminate her claim was reasonable.
Im also satisfied its decision to decline Miss Ms claim for her right-hand pain was in 
line with the policy terms. This is detailed in Miss Ms policy under 6.2 Loss of Income 
which says, You must be engaged in paid employment or earning through self-
employment when the Incapacity starts.  Given that Miss M was still pursuing her 
claim for her left shoulder and arm condition at that time, Im satisfied the evidence 
shows she wasnt working prior to making this claim. Im also satisfied, based on the 
medical information provided to me, that it was reasonable for Shepherds Friendly to 
treat this claim as related to a new condition.
Having read the correspondence and listened to calls between Shepherds Friendly 
and Miss M, Im satisfied Shepherds Friendly treated Miss M professionally. Ive not 
seen or heard anything that shows abusive or racist behaviour towards her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking The Shepherds 
Friendly Society Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman