DRN-3809096
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W are unhappy that Santander UK Plc sent statements for their account to an 
incorrect address and also restricted their access to their savings and current accounts.
What happened
Mrs and Mr W noticed that the personal details on one of their accounts had been changed 
without their permission. The unauthorised changes included the names, address, and 
contact details listed on the account. 
Mrs and Mr W contacted Santander, who confirmed they would change all the details back 
to how they had been. However, Santander didnt action this change in a timely manner, and 
this meant that one of the monthly account statements was sent to the person whose name 
and contact details had been added to their account in error. Santander also placed 
restrictions on Mrs W and Mr Ws other accounts, including savings and current accounts, 
which meant that Mrs W and Mr W could access those accounts for approximately three 
weeks. Mrs W and Mr W werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint. They explained that one of their advisors 
had completed another persons request to update their personal account details on Mrs W 
and Mr Ws account by mistake. Santander accepted that this had resulted in a data breach 
regarding the sending of Mrs W and Mr Ws account statement to the incorrect party. 
Santander apologised to Mrs W and Mr W for that had happened and they made a payment 
totalling £250 to them. This included £225 by way of apology and £25 to cover the cost of 
Mrs W and Mr W registering with a UK fraud prevention agency should they wish to do so. 
Mrs W and Mr W werent satisfied with Santanders response, so they referred their 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint but felt the complaint response Santander 
had issued already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mrs W and Mr W 
werent happy with that investigators view of this complaint, and the complaint was later 
reviewed by another investigator who recommended that Santander should make an 
additional payment of a further £100 to Mrs W and Mr W, which that investigator felt would 
provide a fairer total amount of compensation for the trouble and upset that Mrs W and Mr W 
had incurred. Mrs W and Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander dont dispute that they made mistakes here, both in regard to their advisor 
incorrectly changing the personal details on Mrs W and Mr Ws account, and in the actions 
that subsequently followed, including the sending of an account statement to an incorrect 
party and Mrs W and Mr W being unable to access their savings and current accounts for 
three weeks.
Its also clear that Mrs W and Mr W feel very strongly about this complaint. However, it must 
be acknowledged that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law, and so it isnt 
within the remit of this service to punish or fine a business, or to declare that a business has 
acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful manner. Such declarations would be for a regulatory 
body or a Court of Law to make. 
Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service, with a remit based on fairness 
of outcome. Ive followed this remit by focussing on whether Santander have taken the 
corrective action necessary to put Mrs W and Mr W back into the position they should have 
been in, had the mistakes made by Santander never occurred. Additionally, Ive also thought 
about whether Santander have fairly compensated Mrs W and Mr W for the inconvenience 
and upset they incurred because of what happened.
Santander have corrected the name, address, and contact details on Mrs W and Mr Ws 
account. And Santander have also removed the blocks that theyd placed on Mrs W and Mr 
Ws account while they investigated what had taken place, and which had been put in place 
because, before they understood that an advisor error was to blame, they were concerned 
that an unauthorised party might have passed their security questions and protocols and 
accessed Mrs W and Mr Ws account. 
This all seems reasonable to me, and so Im satisfied that Santander have taken the 
corrective action necessary here to return Mrs W and Mr Ws accounts back to the position 
they should have been in, had no mistakes occurred.  
But I also acknowledge that Mrs W and Mr W have been upset and inconvenienced by 
whats happed here. And while Santander have confirmed to this service that they would be 
agreeable to paying a further £100 compensation to Mrs W and Mr W, in line with 
recommendation made by our investigator, Im aware that Mrs W and Mr W feel that 
considerably more compensation should be warranted, given the impact that these events 
have had on them.
When considering matters of compensation for inconvenience and distress, this services 
approach is to try to understand the impact that the events have had on the complainant, 
and to arrive at a compensation amount that feels fair in regard to that impact, and also in 
consideration of the broad framework which this service uses as a guide to arriving at fair 
compensation amounts  further details of which can be found on our website. 
Taking all these points into account, I can appreciate how Mrs W and Mr W would be upset 
that their account statement had been sent to the wrong person. However, because this 
service considers what has happened  rather than what could have happened  I feel that 
this is mitigated somewhat by the fact the person who in correctly received the statement 
returned it to Santander, and by Santanders payment of £25 to Mrs and Mr W to cover the 
cost of their potentially registering with a UK fraud prevention agency.
Also, while I can appreciate how Mrs W and Mr W would have been frustrated and 
inconvenienced by not being able to access their accounts for three weeks, I note that the 
restrictions on their account were put in place because Santander had understandable 
concerns that Mrs W and Mr Ws account access and security information may have been 
compromised, and so took action to ensure that any potential culprits wouldnt be able to 
take any money or issue any further instructions on their accounts. 
This doesnt distract from the fact that Mrs W and Mr W did incur both upset and 
inconvenience because of Santanders errors, including the length of time that Santander took to put things right. But in consideration of all the above, I feel that the further 
compensation payment of £100  taking the total for all payments to £350  does represent 
a fair and reasonable resolution to whats happened here. And I can confirm that I consider it 
to be commensurate with what I might have instructed Santander to pay, had the amount not 
already been recommended by our investigator. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mrs W and Mr W were wanting here, but it follows 
that while I will be upholding this complaint in their favour, Ill only be doing on the limited 
basis that Santander must pay them the further compensation amount of £100, as described 
above. I hope Mrs W and Mr W will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Santander must make a further compensation payment of £100 to Mrs W and Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman