DRN-2911006
The complaint
Mr D says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator dismissed Mr Ds complaint. Mr D did not agree with the adjudicators view 
that this service couldnt consider the complaint. The complaint was then passed to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why our service may have dismissed 
the complaint but as Lending Stream agreed we could look at the complaint, I then 
considered the merits of the complaint. My provisional decision also explained why I was not 
intending to uphold the merits of Mr Ds complaint. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form 
part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive provided a brief timeline of what I consider to be the key milestones in two complaints
Mr D has brought to our service about Lending Stream.
Complaint  Case reference ending 7402 (the first complaint)
25 June 2018 - A Claims Management Company (CMC) referred Mr Ds complaint
about unaffordable lending to our service. The CMC submitted authority documents
showing they were the representatives acting on behalf of Mr D. Mr Ds
representative confirmed they had not received a final response letter (FRL) from
Lending Stream.
28 August 2018  Lending Stream issued its FRL not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
The FRL explained that Mr D had six months to refer his complaint to our service if
he was unhappy with the response.
14 September 2018  Mr Ds representatives asked our service to withdraw Mr Ds
complaint as he had only taken out one loan with Lending Stream.
10 October 2018  Mr Ds complaint was closed at our service.
Current Complaint (the second complaint)
23 September 2020  Mr D brought a second complaint against Lending Stream to
our Service. Mr D provided us with a FRL from the third party who appeared to have
purchased the debt from Lending Stream. The FRL stated Lending Stream are
responsible for his complaint about irresponsible lending.
23 December 2020  Lending Stream said it had already investigated Mr Ds
complaint under another complaint reference at our service.
6 January 2021  Our service asked Mr D for further information about his complaint
which was referred to us in 2018. Mr D said he never agreed for the CMC to act on
his behalf, therefore the 2018 complaint was not a valid one. He asked our service to
continue investigating his complaint about Lending Stream.
11 March 2021  Lending Stream said its FRL dated 28 August 2018 is the only
response it issued about Mr Ds complaint. And it considers the case closed.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ds second complaint and he concluded that we
shouldnt consider this complaint further. The adjudicator explained that Mr Ds
representatives asked us to withdraw his complaint. And, as it had been more than two
years since our service closed Mr Ds complaint, the adjudicator didnt think we could take
Mr Ds complaint further.
After receiving our adjudicators opinion, Mr D said he didnt agree. Mr D further explained
that he didnt know the CMC were acting for him. Mr D said the CMC acted without his
knowledge by filing the complaint and then by withdrawing it. Mr D asked for an ombudsman
to consider his complaint.
Our adjudicator responded to Mr Ds comments. The adjudicator explained that our service
received several complaints about other short-term lenders from the CMC on behalf of Mr D
in 2018. And that Mr D was sent correspondence by another short-term lender which
explained that the CMC was representing him. So, the adjudicator thought Mr D ought to
have been aware of the CMCs involvement in his complaints.
After receiving the adjudicators comments, Mr D re-iterated that he would like an
ombudsman to consider his complaint and make a decision.
As no agreement could be reached the case has now been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive explained above, the adjudicator who considered the complaint didnt think this was a
case this service could take forward  for the reasons that have been outlined above. And it
was on this basis that the case was passed me to decide.
I dont think the outcome reached by the adjudicator in those circumstances was
unreasonable, and I can see grounds in which this complaint could be dismissed. After all, a
CMC acting for Mr D brought a complaint to this service, that it later wanted to be withdrawn.
And while Mr D may not have been aware what had gone on, I dont think that wouldve
been sufficient in the circumstances to have concluded this was a case we could take
forward. Indeed, by closing the complaint this was an acknowledgment that there was no
longer any outstanding dispute to be investigated.
But having said this, Lending Stream has now supplied its business file containing all the
information that is needed to form an opinion about the merit of Mr Ds complaint. And it
doesnt appear to have been asking for us to continue with the dismissal. It now seems that
Lending Stream is happy for us to deal with the irresponsible lending nature of the complaint.
Therefore, in order to save time, and to give an answer to Mr D at the earliest opportunity,
Ive decided to issue a provisional decision dealing with the merits of the case because I
have sufficient information to be able to do so. Having looked at the information that Ive
been given, I dont think Lending Stream made an error when approving the loan, and Ive
outlined below why I think this is the case.
Unaffordable lending
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practiceat the time these loans were provided.
Based on the information Lending Stream has provided us Mr D took one loan for £300 on
28 March 2017. Mr D was due to make 24 weekly payments of no more than £31.80. Mr D
has had some problems repaying his loan, and based on what Lending Stream has supplied,
the outstanding balance due on the loan was sold to a third party.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr D could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending
was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. Ive also taken into account the law,
any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loan was provided.
When Mr D applied for his first loan, Lending Stream asked him to declare his monthly
income and expenditure, and it completed a credit check. Mr D declared that he had a
monthly income of £2,175 and that his monthly expenditure amounted to £1,170.
Lending Stream completed some checks into Mr Ds income and credit expenditure, and it
adjusted Mr Ds declared figures accordingly. Subsequently, Lending Stream recorded Mr
Ds income as £2,175 and his expenditure as £1,250. This would have left Mr D with a
sufficient disposable income to meet the largest weekly repayments of no more than £31.80.
The largest monthly payment wouldve been £130.80 which Mr D would have to pay Lending
Stream in June 2017.
I think the repayments appeared affordable based on the information declared by Mr D and
the adjustments made by Lending Stream to these figures.
Lending Stream also completed a credit check to understand more about Mr Ds credit
expenditure. The results of the credit checks show Mr D had nine active accounts. But
Lending Stream was not privy to which types of accounts Mr D held i.e. short-term loans,
credit cards etc. The checks also didnt show any defaults, but it did highlight that one loan
had entered delinquency, but that was some 35 months before Mr Ds loan was approved. 
So, I dont think this wouldve prompted Lending Stream to either decline his application or to
carry out further or more in-depth checks.So, for Mr Ds loan I think Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks which showed
Mr D was likely to be able to afford the repayments he was committing to making. And there
wasnt anything else in the information Lending Stream gathered that wouldve made it think
that the lending was unsustainable or that Mr D was having wider financial problems. Finally,
given this was the first and only loan I dont think the checks needed to extend to
verifying the information Mr D was providing so for example checking his bank statements.
Overall, I think the checks Lending Stream carried out were proportionate and showed it that
Mr D was likely to be able to afford the loan. So, Im intending to not uphold the complaint
about the sale of Mr Ds loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lending Stream acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but it didnt have any 
further comments or information for me to consider.
Mr D did not provide any information for me to consider following my provisional decision.
Due to no new information being provided I see no reason to depart from the findings that I 
reached in the provisional decision. And I still think Lending Stream carried out proportionate 
checks before it granted the loan, and the checks showed that Mr D was likely to be able to 
afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by the outcome of his complaint, but I hope my 
explanation has been useful in explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman