DRN-2590984
The complaint
Miss P says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time as NatWest) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business as RBS in this decision to 
keep things simple.
What happened
Miss P opened a credit card account with RBS in 1996. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy to protect her monthly credit card repayments if she was unable to work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss P disagreed 
with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Miss Ps signed application for the credit card. It includes equally 
prominent options to take or decline the cover. Miss P signed specifically to indicate that 
she wanted to take the PPI. I acknowledge that Miss Ps told us that the box for PPI was 
already ticked. But there was no box to tick. Instead, there was a space to sign if the 
applicant wished to take PPI, and Miss P signed it. 
Im satisfied that RBS made it clear to Miss P that the PPI was optional. And I think she 
decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice  although I can understand how she 
may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
RBS says the it didnt recommend the PPI to Miss P, or give her advice about it. Miss P 
originally told us the same. But in its response to the adjudicators view, Miss Ps 
representative has commented that Miss P went ahead with the policy as it was 
recommended to her and she listened to the advice she received from the advisor as 
she assumed they knew best. This isnt easy to reconcile with the information we were 
originally given. Ive also borne in mind that Miss P originally told us she applied for the 
credit card by post. But Im satisfied from RBSs records that Miss P applied for the credit 
card and PPI at a branch of the bank. 
Overall, Im not convinced that Miss Ps recollection of the sale is clear. I dont find this 
surprising, given that it took place well over 20 years ago. Based on what we know of the 
way RBS sold these policies at the time, I think its unlikely that it advised Miss P about 
the policy, or made a personal recommendation to her about it. This means that RBS 
didn't have to check that the policy was suitable for Miss P. It was for Miss P to decide 
whether to take the PPI, knowing what other means she'd have had of making 
repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job. But RBS did need to give her 
enough information to allow her to decide for herself whether the policy was right for her.
Ive borne in mind that Miss Ps told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. But 
if shed made a successful claim for accident or sickness on the policy, it would have 
helped with her monthly credit card payments for up to 12 months. Thats longer than 
Miss Ps told us shed have been entitled to full sick pay from her employer for. And it 
would have paid the same level of benefit if shed been made redundant. Whats more, 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to any payments Miss P received from her 
employer. So she could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
I accept that its possible the information RBS gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But as Ive said, Im satisfied, on balance, that Miss P chose to 
take out the policy. So I think she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably 
forgotten this now, so many years later. Based on what I've seen of Miss P's 
circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover (for example, provisions about unusual employment arrangements or existing 
medical conditions). So I think the policy could have been useful for her if she'd been off 
sick, or if she'd lost her job. And since she was paying for the policy monthly, she could 
have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if she decided she no longer wanted the 
cover.
So taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Miss P would have made a 
different decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed 
still have taken out the policy.
Ive taken account of all Miss Ps comments, including what shes said about the average 
time shed have been off work sick being one week. But the policy was designed to provide 
cover in the case of unexpected events. So this doesnt change my conclusion that the 
policy wasnt mis-sold.
This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss P because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss P about that. Because RBS didnt tell Miss P, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, RBS has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
RBS has to pay back to Miss P any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Miss P any extra interest she paid 
because of that.RBS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss P the difference between 
what Miss P owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Miss P 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss P can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss P.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Miss P any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman