DRN-4326929
Complaint
Mr J complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. 
Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement were unaffordable. 
Background
In May 2018, Moneybarn provided Mr J with finance for a used van. The purchase price of 
the vehicle was £14,650.00. Mr J paid a deposit of £643 and took out a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £14,016.00. The loan had interest and charges 
of £10,351.00 and a 60 month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£25,001.00 was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £413.00.
Mr J complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Js complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Mr J unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mr Js complaint should be upheld. 
Mr J disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Js complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Js complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr J before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr J provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr J which had shown Mr J had a 
default but no county court judgments (CCJ) taken out against him. It also requested 
copies of bank statements from Mr J. And when the amount owing plus a reasonable 
amount for Mr Js living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly 
payments for this agreement were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr J says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr J and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Moneybarn gathered a significant amount of information 
from Mr J and didnt simply rely on what he said about his income and expenditure. And 
having looked at the information gathered, I dont think that there was anything in it that 
would indicate Mr J wasnt in a position to make the payments he was committing to. 
I say this because the information provided appears to show that when Mr Js regular living 
expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he did 
have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this 
agreement. I appreciate that Mr J may have been using an overdraft at the time. But its 
clear that most of what was going out of his account was discretionary expenditure. So I 
dont think that Moneybarn ought to have realised that Mr J might have been unable to 
sustainably make the payments to this agreement because he was trapped in a cycle of 
unsustainable overdraft usage.
I accept its possible that Mr Js actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information he provided showed. But the key here is that its only fair and 
reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something 
wrong. And I dont think that Moneybarn could possibly be expected to have known that the 
payments to this agreement were unaffordable, bearing in mind that the information provided 
doesnt clearly show that this is the case. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that Moneybarn carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks and there wasnt anything in the information 
gathered that ought reasonably to have stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or 
entering into this agreement with Mr J. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr J. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr J. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman