DRN-3409441
The complaint
Mr T complains about Unum Ltds decision to turn down a dental insurance claim for his 
wife.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 2 July 2020, Unum wrote to Mr T to confirm that his policy was due to renew on 1 August 
2020. It confirmed his new premium amount, and also explained he may be able to get 
insurance cover at a better price if he shopped around. Unum explained in the email how 
Mr T could access his latest policy documents. 
Mr T says that he spoke with Unum in January and February 2020 about adding his wife to 
the policy at renewal. Unum has only been able to retrieve a call that took place in February 
2020. Ive listened to that call, and Mr T did indeed ask if he could add his wife to his policy. 
Unum explained he could do this at renewal at the end of July 2020.
Then on 8 June 2020, Mr T got in touch with Unum via its online portal to again ask if he 
could add his wife to the policy. Unum responded on 11 June 2020 and confirmed that he 
couldnt add dependants mid-way through the policy year unless thered been a life changing 
event. Unum explained that Mr T could make changes to his policy at renewal. It confirmed 
that his policy would renew on 1 August 2020. 
Whilst Unums response made it clear that Mr T could add a dependant at renewal, it didnt 
say that it was going to arrange this for him, and Mr T didnt ask it to do so. It seems that 
Mr T assumed that his wife had been added to the policy at renewal because his premium 
had increased. Thats unfortunate, however, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that 
Unum led him to believe that it had added his wife to the policy. 
Ive also looked at the policy schedule for the year 1 August 2020 to 31 July 2021 which was 
available for Mr T to review at renewal, and its clear that only Mr T was named as an 
insured person.
As Mr Ts wife wasnt insured under the policy, it was appropriate for Unum to refuse to 
consider her claim.
Mr T is unhappy with the price increase that was applied to his policy at renewal. 
This service generally takes the view that its up to an insurer to decide how much to charge 
for its policies. So long as it exercises that judgement fairly and consistently, its a matter in 
which this service normally wouldnt interfere. 
Unum explained to Mr T that his premium had increased due to rising NHS costs and private 
dental fees. Weve checked with Unum and its confirmed that this increase impacted all 
policyholders, not just Mr T. 
Im therefore satisfied that Mr T was treated in the same way as other customers in his 
position, and so wasnt treated unfairly by Unum.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman