DRN-3221717
The complaint
Mr P complains that 247 Money Group Limited refused to accept his rejection of a faulty car.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
247 is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was some seven years old and had covered 55,309 miles. Some six months after 
the sale the car which had covered an additional 6,700 miles stopped working. I gather it has 
been diagnosed with either a failed head gasket or the engine block head is cracked.
Given the age of the car wear and tear is to be expected, but I would expect a head gasket 
to last longer than 62,000 miles. However, the independent report states that given the car 
was able to travel for 6,700 miles after the point of sale it is unlikely that the fault was 
present when it was acquired by Mr P. I appreciate Mr P doesnt consider the inspection was 
sufficiently comprehensive and it did not establish the precise cause of the problem. 
However, I cannot go against the findings of an independent expert unless I have got good 
reason to do so.
Mr P has said his garage didnt agree with the inspectors findings and said this was 
common fault with this type of engine. I am aware of the issues this engine has had with 
degas pipes, but I have checked with the manufacturers website and there is no evidence 
that this issue was likely to have been present in Mr Ps car. The manufacturer says that the 
fault is only present in a tiny percentage of the engines it has supplied.
The cause of the fault has not been established, but I have not seen any evidence that 
would allow me to conclude that it was faulty at the point of sale and without that I cannot 
uphold this complaint.
Mr P has not supplied any written evidence from his garage so I cannot evaluate it and I 
cannot say that it would allow me to ignore the inspectors findings. It is regrettable that the 
car has suffered this fault and I see that 247 offered to pay £500 towards the repair as a 
gesture of goodwill which I believe is still available. I also have been told the dealer will 
repair the car at trade prices. Mr P has said he was told 247 that it would cover the storage 
charges he has incurred while the car was left at a garage, but it does not agree. I have seen 
no written evidence of such an offer.
In short, the cars engine failed after being driven some 6,700 miles by Mr P and I have no 
evidence to show that the fault was present or inherent at the point of sale and so I do not 
consider that I can safely uphold this complaint. 
I expect 247 to honour its goodwill offer of £500 if Mr P wishes to take it, but I cannot ask it 
to accept rejection of the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman