DRN-1366800
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the charges Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), 
trading as Skoda Financial Services, have asked her to pay.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion for these reasons.
Mrs S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
VWFS made mistakes here. They wrongly informed Mrs S she owed over £2,700 
and later told her she owed nothing. They sent confusing messages about what was 
owed without explaining what the money was owed for, and they also didnt advise 
Mrs S of the correct charges for many weeks. I think they should provide some 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused Mrs S and, taking all 
the circumstances into account, I would agree with the investigator that they should 
pay £250. 
The terms of Mrs Ss finance agreement explained that the maximum mileage 
allowed before excess charges were applied was 30,000. The car was returned with 
a mileage of 58,808 and the additional 28,808 miles have been charged at 6p per 
mile and not the 7.2p per mile stated in the agreement. So, the outstanding balance 
is £2074.17.
Whilst I think its fair for VWFS to pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience thats been experienced, I dont think it would be fair for them to waive 
the mileage charge, regardless of whether their call handler made a mistake and said 
they would. I think Mrs S should always have been aware that a charge would be 
payable as it is clearly set out on the front page of her agreement.
The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association provide the guidelines on what 
should be done when cars are returned at the end of their lease. They say, If the 
BVRLA member intends to apply charges, for example for excess mileagethe 
driver must be advisedno later than four weeks after the vehicle was collected. 
Its clear that Mrs S wasnt advised within four weeks but the BVRLA guidance 
doesnt say that, in those circumstances, the charges should be waived. I think in 
those circumstances it would be reasonable for a business to pay some 
compensation for the delay and Im persuaded that the £250 Im recommending is 
sufficient given the other mistakes the business has made.
Putting things right
I think, to put things right, VWFS should pay Mrs S £250 to compensate her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to pay Mrs S £250 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman