DRN-1666202
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the service she received from Rock Insurance Services Limited after 
she bought a travel insurance policy.
Mrs H is represented by Mr H.
What happened
On 21 April 2019, Mr H bought a travel insurance policy online, through Rock, on Mrs Hs 
behalf. He paid the premium upfront. The policy was bought to cover a five-day trip Mrs H 
had planned for later that year. 
As Mrs H hadnt received any policy documents by 29 April 2019, Mr H got in touch with 
Rock to chase them up. It told him it couldnt find the policy, despite Mr H providing evidence 
hed bought it. Mr H was unhappy with the service hed received from Rock and made a 
complaint.
Rock didnt get in touch with Mr H again until 3 May 2019  again to say it couldnt find the 
policy. Mr H called Rock the next day and spent around two hours on the phone. At this 
point, Rock discovered thered been a technical error and Mrs Hs policy hadnt been 
written. Rock was able to issue Mrs H with another policy, which Mrs H agreed to. But by 
this point, the policy underwriter had changed, and the cover limits were slightly lower.
Rock accepted itd provided Mrs H with poor service, so it paid her compensation of £20 for 
her time and inconvenience. Mrs H wasnt happy with Rocks response, as she said Mr H 
had spent around 15 hours on the phone to Rock. And itd hadnt been able to provide her 
with the same policy. So she felt compensation of around £100-150 would be reasonable.
Our investigator thought Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. Rock could only find six calls 
between it and Mr H, and the longest two calls were around two hours altogether. Mr H 
couldnt provide a call log showing all the calls he said hed made. So she relied on the calls 
shed received from Rock. She felt Mrs H wouldve been frustrated by not knowing what was 
going on with her policy and that shed been caused worry and stress about whether shed 
be insured or not. So she recommended that Rock should pay Mrs H total compensation of 
£50.
Rock disagreed. It said Mrs H had been on risk from the moment she paid the premium. Mrs 
H had been provided with written confirmation of cover over three months before her trip. 
Rock had tried to call Mr H on 4 May 2019, but he hadnt been able to take the calls. If he 
had, he wouldnt have incurred call charges. Mrs H had been happy to go ahead with the 
new policy and she was aware of the difference in cover. It thought the compensation itd 
already paid was fair. 
Rock later told the investigator it would consider her assessment further, but it didnt get 
back in touch. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Rock should pay Mrs H £50 as fair compensation for the service she 
received. Ill explain why.
Mr H bought Mrs Hs policy over the Easter weekend. Rock says he contacted its office on 
22 April 2019, while it was closed. It queried why he didnt get back in touch until 29 April 
2019. 
Mrs H wouldve been expecting to get her travel insurance documents very soon after buying 
the policy online. So I can appreciate why Mr H chased them up on her behalf the next day. I 
accept the office was closed over that weekend. But it seems to me that Rock couldve got in 
touch with Mrs H (or Mr H) once the office re-opened. I cant see that it did though.
Instead, Mr H called again around a week later. While it wasnt the call handlers fault they 
couldnt find the policy, Rock acknowledges there was a training gap in its call centres about 
the failure to write technical issue. So it seems this likely led to Mr H having to chase things 
up on his wifes behalf over the next few days.
Like the investigator, in the absence of evidence showing Mr H made around 15 hours of 
calls, I find Rocks evidence more persuasive. It does indicate to me though that Mrs H was 
sufficiently worried about her policy that Mr H spent around two hours discussing it with Rock 
on 4 May 2019. And it was only at that point that the issue was identified.
Rock says Mrs H was covered from the moment the premium was paid. But Im not sure this 
wouldve been clear to her. Thats because she didnt have a copy of the policy terms and 
conditions or a schedule to show she was insured. Given the policy was bought a few 
months ahead of her trip, it seems making sure she had travel insurance in good time was 
important to her. So I dont doubt she was worried and stressed when a) the documents 
didnt arrive and b) she learned about the technical error.
I agree Rock did rearrange cover for Mrs H and it seems she was happy to accept this. So I 
dont think shes lost out here. But I do think that given the issues Mrs H experienced, total 
compensation of £50 seems fair and reasonable as I accept she experienced inconvenience 
as a result of what went wrong. Im satisfied that a total of £50 fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused and thats what Im telling Rock to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
I direct Rock Insurance Services Limited to pay Mrs H total compensation of £50. It may 
deduct the £20 its already paid, if Mrs H has cashed the original cheque.
Rock must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mrs H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
*If Rock considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also giveMrs H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman