DRN-4393098
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Admiral Insurance (Gilbraltar) Limited (Admiral) has 
handled a claim he made under his buildings insurance policy for damage to his property 
caused by a water leak. Mr W is also unhappy that two excesses were deducted from the 
claim payment.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 5 October 2023, explaining why I was intending to uphold 
this complaint. This is what I said in the provisional decision:
What happened
In December 2022, Mr W had a water leak at his property which was visible above 
his living room ceiling.
On 4 January 2023, Admiral informed Mr W that they couldnt send someone from a 
leak detection company to him until 30 January 2023. In the meantime, Mr W had to 
manually turn of the mains water each time he wasnt using it.
A loss adjuster came to Mr Ws house to investigate the claim on 3 March 2023. 
Following that visit, Admiral said it would offer a cash settlement so Mr W could 
arrange his own repairs. By then Mr W says there was mould on the plaster where 
the leak had been running. Mr W then had to find contractors to carry out the repair 
works.
Admiral cash-settled the claim but deducted two excesses which Mr W was unhappy 
about. He also said that hed omitted to include the cost of repainting the room once 
the plasterwork had been completed. However, on raising this with Admiral he was 
told that the redecoration costs had already been included in the cash settlement.
Mr W complained to Admiral about the way his claim had been handled and received 
a final response letter on 30 March 2023 upholding his complaint and offering £200 
compensation for the confusion caused by its loss adjuster. However, Mr W 
remained unhappy with Admirals settlement of his claim so referred his complaint to 
this service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and issued a view on 
22 June 2023, not upholding the complaint.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He said from December 2022 to March 
2023 he was left without any direct or meaningful help and advice from Admiral and 
had to source and pay for his own Leak & Detect, Asbestos Check and leak repair as 
Admiral could not give him any reasonable dates for when they could commence the 
work. Mr W says that he was initially under the impression that Admiral were going to 
manage and oversee the work back to the original condition of the living room. It was 
only when the loss adjuster visited that he was made aware the claim would be 
resolved with a cash settlement, and at no time did Admiral offer to undertake the 
work.
Mr W also explained that at no point was he advised that the painting and decorating 
costs were missing from the quotation he provided to Admiral. And he said he hadnt 
been provided with a breakdown of the plastering and redecoration costs that 
Admiral insists were included in the settlement offer. Mr W requested an 
ombudsmans decision on his complaint.
Prior to issuing this provisional decision, I emailed Admiral to say that the notes 
recorded by its claims handlers evidenced a lack of confidence about whether or not 
the redecoration costs were included in the settlement figure. Admiral asked its loss 
adjuster to clarify this point a number of times. Sometimes they were confident with 
the answer, and on other occasions they were not. Finally, a short email was 
provided saying those costs had been included. Given the confusion surrounding this 
issue, evident in Admirals complaint records, I was not persuaded by a short email 
alone, that the redecoration costs had been included.
So, I asked Admiral to provide a copy of the loss adjusters technical report, and the 
scope of works on which the settlement sum was based to assist me to reach a 
decision on whether or not Mr Ws claim had been fairly settled in relation to the 
redecoration costs. I asked for this information to be provided by 28 September 2023 
and said that if it wasnt received, in the absence of any other evidence to show the 
redecoration costs were included in the settlement amount, I was intending to require 
Admiral to pay Mr Ws quotation for the redecoration costs. Admiral did not respond 
to that request for information.
I am now giving the parties one week to respond to this provisional decision, which is 
a shorter period of time than I would usually allow. However, the reason for that is the 
many opportunities Admiral has already been given, to provide the outstanding 
information to this service.
Our investigator first requested the scope of works from Admiral on 21 June 2023, 
more than three months ago. I requested the information two weeks ago and it still 
has not been provided. I therefore consider providing a further week for the parties to 
respond to this provisional decision, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The invoice provided by Mr W in relation to plastering quoted £1,600 including 
materials and labour and described the work as: Remove water damaged 
plasterboard from wall(s) and ceiling as required. Dot & Dab wall and board ceiling, 
prep all areas for plastering. Plaster all affected wall(s) and ceiling flat.
Mr W said that he had not been told at any point that he needed to provide costs for 
painting and decorating once the wall & ceiling repairs had been carried out. He later 
provided a quotation in support of his claim for an additional £850 for painting and 
decorating the room said: Supply all paint and materials for [address] rear room 
[that] has leak £850.00.
Admiral says the painting and decoration costs were included in the initial settlement offer. But the information provided by Admiral to this service on balance, doesnt 
persuade me, more likely than not, that they were.
The notes included in the business file submission to this service say that on 
15 March 2023, Admiral called Mr W to advise him of the settlement amount based 
on their loss adjusters report. Mr W asked if that included painting and decorating. 
The call handler said the report is only for the buildings and then phoned the loss 
adjuster to say they need to include the redecorating in the settlement amount. The 
loss adjuster then said theyd included the costs of redecoration in the settlement 
amount. However, Mr W called Admiral and said the loss adjuster had confirmed to 
him that they had reached their limit with the settlement and it didnt include the costs 
for redecoration. Admirals call handler then checked the scope of works and 
confirmed he could see the costs for painting the walls and ceiling were included, so 
the settlement offer had already covered those costs.
The confusion continued and on 29 March 2023, Admiral phoned their loss adjuster 
again, to see if redecorating was included because Mr W had said it wasnt. The loss 
adjusters call handler said it doesnt seem to include costs for any redecorating but 
he could see that redecoration was required and asked if Mr W had any quotes. He 
said hed review the file to see if the costs for redecoration have already been 
included or whether they need to be added.
On 10 April 2023 at 2:40pm the loss adjuster emailed Admiral to say that the 
buildings settlement includes redecoration costs. He said that their scope including 
building costs is £1,464.16 which includes an additional 10% uplift to match Mr Ws 
quote, for the full building works.
Admirals case notes show that in fact £2,738.05 was paid, with £1,600 being paid in 
relation to buildings and £1,138.05 being paid in relation to contents. The excess was 
said to have been deducted from the buildings component, giving £1988.05. Admiral 
paid Mr W £1,988.05 and £740 for the leak detection and the ACM test.
As set out in the background, this service has requested a copy of the scope of 
works from Admiral on several occasions, starting in June 2023. That information has 
still not been provided. Given the conflicting answers recorded in the case history 
provided by Admiral, in the absence of a scope of works showing what the settlement 
offer was based on, Im not currently persuaded that the painting and decorating was 
provided for in Admirals settlement offer. And even if it was, I have seen nothing to 
persuade me that any amount included in that settlement offer, was sufficient to 
cover the cost to Mr W of having the works done.
Given that work needs to be carried out, for Mr W to be indemnified under the policy 
for the damage caused by the insured event, Admiral needs to cover the cost of the 
painting and decorating. And in the absence of evidence to show it more likely than 
not, has included these costs in the settlement payment, or sufficient costs have 
been included in the settlement, Im intending to conclude that Admiral has not fairly 
or reasonably settled Mr Ws claim.
And while it might be suggested that Mr W ought to have ensured those costs were 
included in the initial quotation he provided to Admiral, Mr W, unlike Admirals loss 
adjuster, is not an expert. Also, as Mr W said, he expected Admiral would carry out 
the repair works under his policy; it wasnt his preference to receive a cash 
settlement in lieu of the works being carried out. So, taking everything into account 
Im intending to uphold this complaint.Admiral has already offered Mr W £200 to apologise for the confusion caused by the 
loss adjusters. However, I dont think that goes far enough to compensate him for the 
frustration and stress hes been caused by the way Admiral has settled his claim. I 
think Admiral should pay Mr W an additional £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered.
Im therefore intending to uphold this complaint and make the awards detailed below. 
But before I do, I would like to address the second element of Mr Ws claim regarding 
the deduction of two excesses.
Mr W was of the view that Admiral had deducted two excesses from the settlement 
amount: one for the building and one for the contents. However, when he queried this 
with Admiral he was told that only the £750 excess for the building work had been 
taken.
The certificate of insurance, in relation to the cause of the claim being an escape of 
water, shows a compulsory excess of £500 and a voluntary excess of £250, giving a 
total excess of £750. This may explain why Mr W thought he was being charged two 
excesses. However, the excess explanatory notes on the certificate of insurance 
explain that the compulsory excess applies to all claims and the voluntary excess is 
the excess the policyholder chose to include when taking out the cover. So, I dont 
think Admiral have done anything wrong in deducting an excess of £750 from the 
settlement amount.
I concluded that Admiral should pay Mr W £850 on receipt of an invoice showing that he had 
paid that amount in redecorating the damaged part of the property, together with 8% simple 
interest and an additional £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused by Admirals handling of the claim.
I asked both parties to let me have any final comments or information theyd like me to 
consider before issuing my final decision, by Thursday 12 October 2023.
Mr W confirmed he had nothing further to add. Admiral didnt respond to the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any additional comments or information for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in the provisional decision. So, for the 
reasons set out in the provisional decision and this final decision, I uphold this complaint.Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gilbraltar) Limited to:
Pay Mr W £850 to cover the cost of painting and decorating the part of his property 
that suffered damage, on receipt of an invoice from Mr W showing that he has paid 
these costs;
Add interest to the £850 at 8%* simple per year from the date Mr W paid for the work 
to be done, until the date it pays these awards; and
Pay Mr W a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered as a result of the way the claim has been handled.
It should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr W has accepted my final decision.
* If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to pay the awards detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman