DRN-3025984
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (trading as Tesco Bank) wont refund him 
payments he made on his credit card to what he says was an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2019 Mr G was enticed to make an investment involving the trading of cryptocurrency with 
a firm Ill refer to as K. As a result of this in January 2019 Mr G made two payments on his 
Tesco credit card totalling around £5,000. 
Mr G later concluded that K were operating a scam and asked Tesco to help him recover his 
money. Tesco considered both Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) and the 
relevant chargeback scheme and concluded they were unable to assist or provide a refund. 
Mr G complained and when Tesco maintained their position the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint but ultimately didnt recommend it 
should be upheld. In summary she didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly when concluding 
Mr G didnt have a valid chargeback or section 75 claim. Mr G disagrees and has asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr G has lost so much money, but my role here is to assess whether Tesco 
acted fairly when declining to refund him. I appreciate Mr G says other payments made with 
different creditors have been refunded. But depending on the particular card scheme, 
different rules and considerations will apply. 
Tesco are bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules which in this case is 
Mastercard. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good 
practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a 
chargeback can only be made within the scheme rules. 
Under the Mastercard scheme rules there is limited protection for payments going to any sort 
of investment. Our service has clarified with Mastercard that there may be a chargeback 
route to pursue if the merchant doesnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. 
But in this case, the nature of Mr Gs claim is that K were operating a scam, and this isnt 
something the chargeback scheme provides protection against. So, I dont think Tesco acted 
unfairly when declining to take a chargeback further, as I dont think there was an avenue for 
them to pursue that had any prospect of success. 
Notwithstanding the general principles above, the fact remains that the two Mastercard 
payments were made by Mr G to a legitimate crypto exchange Ill refer to as L. The latter 
did not defraud him nor steal his money and they did not pass it onto a third party without his 
consent. It seems to me that L simply did what Mr G asked of them; in return for his 
Mastercard payments, they exchanged and remitted an equivalent amount in crypto to the 
(Fake) wallet address that Mr G unwittingly entered. So any chargeback claim against them 
would be bound to fail because they delivered the service and delivered the currency  so 
they were entitled to retain the payments that Mr G had authorised.  
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim 
for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have against 
the supplier of goods or services. But it follows that if L (the supplier) did nothing wrong, as 
appears to be the case, there could not reasonably be a successful like claim against Tesco 
(the creditor). There is no right under the 1974 Act to pursue a like claim against a third party 
(such as K) who was not privy to the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. So, as with the 
chargeback issue above, I can see no viable grounds under s.75 for upholding the 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman