DRN-2553507
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled their claim on their 
home insurance. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs A came home to discover the basement of their property was 
flooded. They called out the local water company who found the cause of the flood was a 
damaged shared sewage pipe. They fixed the problem and repaired the damage.
Shortly after this Mr and Mrs A noticed their garden patio was distorted and that there were 
cracks around outside of the kitchen and inside the property. They made a claim on their 
home insurance with Aviva. 
In June 2019 Aviva sent a subsidence specialist loss adjuster to inspect the damage. They 
produced a report that concluded the damage to the building was likely to have been caused 
by moisture or thermal movement and not subsidence. However the loss adjuster said there 
may be a separate claim for escape of water as the damage to the patio could have been 
caused by the initial flood.
Following this there was some confusion about the claim and progress was slow. Mr and 
Mrs A were unclear about why the damage had been investigated as subsidence. And they 
chased Aviva a number of times, as there appeared to be no clear indication of whether the 
claim would be covered or not. Aviva treated Mr and Mrs As correspondence as a complaint 
and investigated it. 
After two further visits, and a number of reports, Aviva concluded that it was likely that the 
damage to the patio was caused by the original leak from the sewage pipe, so should be 
considered under the policy as an escape of water peril. However it said it didnt think there 
was enough evidence to say the damage to Mr and Mrs As property was caused by the 
same peril. It said it thought this was caused by the structure of the house and it was 
common in buildings of a similar age to theirs.
Aviva said that Mr and Mrs A could get their own surveyor to carry out further investigative 
work to try and work out the cause of the damage to the property. But without any further 
evidence, it didnt think this damage would be covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs A were unhappy with how Aviva had handled their claim and werent satisfied 
with the outcome of the complaint. They said it wasnt clear whether any of the claim was 
being covered. They brought their complaint to this service.
After doing so, they instructed their own surveyor to inspect the damage to their property. 
Their surveyor concluded that the damage to the patio was caused by the original leak. He 
said that in order to determine the cause for the cracks to the main property, further 
investigation would be needed. But that it had now been so long since the leak took place, 
these are unlikely to be conclusive about the cause. He said that while he couldnt disprove 
what Avivas loss adjuster had said about the cracks being due to the structure of the 
building, he thought it was most likely the flood had caused the damage. 
The report was passed to Aviva but it said it didnt change its position. It said its own report 
had commented there was moisture present in the walls, but that this was unlikely to be due 
to the flood because of the amount of time that had now passed. So it didnt think there was 
enough information to say that the leak had caused the damage to the property. 
Our investigator considered Avivas response and recommended that Mr and Mrs As 
complaint be upheld. She said that she felt they had done enough to prove the damage was 
caused by an event that was covered by the policy, so she thought Aviva should cover the 
full claim under the escape of water peril. She also thought it should pay Mr and Mrs A £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused them throughout the claim. 
And it should cover the cost of Mr and Mrs As surveyor report.
Mr and Mrs A accepted our investigators opinion. However, Aviva didnt, and asked for it to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made it is for the insured to prove that there is an insured peril 
a problem thats covered by the policy. It is then for the insurer to either accept the claim or
to prove an exclusion in the policy applies.
In this case Aviva has said that it doesnt think Mr and Mrs A have done enough to show that 
an insured peril has caused the cracking to the property. I need to decide if this is fair. 
Throughout the claim Aviva and its agents have produced a number of reports that have 
drawn conclusions on the cause of the damage to the property. 
In January Avivas loss adjuster attended the property and concluded that the damage was 
due to the way Victorian and Edwardian properties are built, that means the walls tend to 
drift outwards over a period of time. They concluded this was due to the fact they werent 
mechanically tied together, as is required with more modern builds, and said this is the likely 
cause of the cracking.
After Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with this, Aviva sent another loss adjuster to put together a 
dispute resolution report in March 2020. This report concluded as follows:
With regards the internal damage, we are unable to confirm if this is due to the EOW 
[Escape of water] or another unrelated issue. PH [policyholder] is adamant that the 
damage occurred following the EOW and it does seem somewhat coincidental that these 
cracks occurred following the EOW. We are also a little concerned by the high WME 
reading to the external wall which may suggest either water having entered the main 
property from the original leak, or a new EOW.
So while the loss adjuster doesnt agree there is enough proof that the cracks were 
directly linked to the leak, he doesnt rule it out. Further he concludes there are high 
moisture readings in the walls suggesting this is due to the original leak or another escape of water. As there has been no evidence of another escape of water, it seems 
more likely that the moisture was caused by the original leak. 
Further, the dispute resolution report concludes by saying:
 
We have advised the PH that the onus is upon them to demonstrate the damage is as a 
result of an insured event and the PH has not ruled out arranging further investigations 
to try to prove the link between the internal damage and the original EOW.
After this report Mr and Mrs A did instruct their own surveyor wo inspect the damage. And 
their expert concluded the cracks were most likely caused by the first escape of water. 
When I consider this alongside the dispute resolution report from Aviva, I am persuaded that 
on the balance of probabilities the damage was most likely caused by the leak. Avivas 
report doesnt rule out the link and suggests further investigations are necessary to be sure. 
When these are carried out by Mr and Mrs As expert the conclusion is that the leak most 
likely caused the damage. So based on this, I think Mr and Mrs A have done enough to 
show that there is an insured peril thats covered by the policy. 
For this reason I dont think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably by not covering the 
damage to the building. So I will require it to consider Mr and Mrs As claim for both the 
damage to their patio and the building in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
As Mr and Mrs A have had to pay for their own surveyors report in order to prove they have 
a claim under the policy, I also require Aviva to reimburse them for the cost of this report.
I have also considered the distress and inconvenience Aviva has caused Mr and Mrs A 
throughout the claim. They first made the claim in April 2019. And in the year that followed, 
very little progress was made on the claim. Aviva initially sent subsidence experts to look at 
the damage and it wasnt until January 2020 that the possible link between the initial leak 
and the damage was made by their loss adjuster. This meant that during the first nine 
months of the claim no real progress was made. 
I can see from the claim notes and correspondence provided that during that time the 
communication from Aviva was poor and often confusing. This would have been 
inconvenient and distressing from Mr and Mrs A, as they had to take the time to continually 
chase Aviva. For these reasons I agree with our investigators recommendation that Aviva 
should pay £300 compensation to make up for this. 
  
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given, I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint and require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to:
Consider Mr and Mrs As claim for the internal and external damage to their property in 
line with the policy terms and conditions.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs A for the cost of the surveyors report.
Pay Mr and Mrs A £300 compensation. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman