DRN-2970244
The complaint
Mr S complains about the valuation his motor insurer Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited (AICL) made for his car in a total loss claim. 
What happened
Mr S says the valuation AICL have come up with is less than similar cars cost online. 
AICL have explained that their valuation is based on the values in two industry guides. They 
offered Mr S an average of the two values, so they feel its a fair offer. They also noted that 
valuing the car like this was in line with our published approach when theres a dispute about 
a vehicles value. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator checked the valuations AICL had used. 
That led him to feel the settlement offer was fair, even though it seemed Mr S couldnt find a 
similar car for that price online. 
Mr S didnt agree this was the right outcome. He feels the guides arent used to value 
second hand cars in the market, so shouldnt be used to value his claim. The complaint has 
therefore come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find AICL have taken reasonable steps to value Mr Ss car, in line with the 
terms and conditions of the insurance policy. Ill explain my decision, although the reasoning 
in similar to what our investigator already explained.
Mr S is working out the value of his car by looking at the asking price for cars like his that are 
being sold online. But AICL are using industry guides to look up the value instead.
As AICL have noted, their approach is in line with what we consider to be a fair and 
reasonable method for valuing a car. We publish guidance to that effect on our website.
The guides are informed by national research and analysis of car sales to work out the likely 
selling price of a vehicle. As such, they consider more data than just the websites Mr S is 
looking at. And they look not just at the asking price for the vehicle, but the price it actually 
sells for. These may not always be the same amount, as asking prices may sometimes be 
set with negotiation in mind.
I dont agree with Mr Ss comments, which seem to say the market value of his car is the 
asking price for it. That only considers one side of the market  the sellers. The other side is 
the buyers, and what they are willing to pay. The guides take that into account, and are 
therefore a more complete view of the market than just looking at asking prices.
Sometimes with more unusual cars, the values in the guides arent as accurate, because 
there isnt as much data for them to consider. But in this case, Mr Ss car is a well-known 
make, and the guides show a reasonable amount of consistency in their values. So AICL 
could expect the guides to be able to accurately lead them to a value for it.
With that in mind, I find its reasonable for AICL to give the valuation provided by the guides 
more weight than the adverts Mr S has referred to. They are based on more data, and actual 
sale prices rather than asking prices.
Ive looked at the valuations AICL got from the guides. I see it looks like they took the 
valuation in November 2020 instead of when the car was damaged. But when our 
investigator corrected for that, the value wasnt changed. So I dont see this as an issue that 
AICL need to go back and put right.
The values AICL got are in line with what our investigator found when he double checked the 
guides. AICL have then taken an average of the two most consistent valuations  ignoring a 
third one that was a few hundred pounds lower  for their settlement offer to Mr S. In my 
view, thats a reasonable way to have come to a final value.
So I find AICL have taken a reasonable approach to come up with their valuation. Im not
going to tell them to do anything differently here.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman