DRN-3447073
The complaint
Mr M says Lendable Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took out a 60-month instalment loan for £3,000 from Lendable on 7 August 2018. The
monthly repayment was £103.09 and the total repayable was £6,193.08.
Mr M says the loan was not affordable  he was in sporadic, part-time employment and
suffering from a gambling addiction. Better checks would have shown this.
Our adjudicator said Mr Ms complaint should not be upheld. She didnt think Lendables
decision to lend was wrong based on the checks it carried out.
Mr M disagreed, saying again that his income wasnt stable, he was gambling frequently and
using credit to supplement his income. He asked for an ombudsmans review, so the
complaint was passed to me. 
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator, so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any 
comments or new evidence by 25 April 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
Lendable asked for some information from Mr M before it approved his loan application. It
asked for details of his income and checked this with recent payslips. It says it also used
current account turnover data from a third party to verify his incomings and to estimate his
outgoings. It reviewed his credit file to understand his credit history and existing
commitments. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was for debt consolidation. From
these checks combined Lendable concluded that Mr M would have enough monthly
disposable income to afford the loan.
I am not persuaded these checks were proportionate given Mr M would need to be able to
make repayments sustainably for a long period - 60 months. Lendable knew from his credit
file he already had around £14,500 of debt and that he was paid weekly through an
employment agency (suggesting his employment was possibly not permanent). In these
circumstances I think it ought to have carried out a fuller financial review to make sure it
understood more about the stability of Mr Ms employment and any variation in income, as
well as his actual monthly expenditure.
To understand what better checks would most likely have shown Lendable I have looked at
Mr Ms bank statements from the three months prior to his application. I am not saying the
lender had to do exactly this but its a way for me to understand what better checks would
most likely have shown.
The statements show a high number of gambling transactions, typically in excess of Mr Ms
monthly income. And in the month before his application he was persistently reliant on his
overdraft, incurring frequent daily fees. So had Lendable completed proportionate checks I
think it would have realised there was a risk Mr M would be unable to sustainably repay its
loan  that is without borrowing to repay, or without suffering some other adverse financial
consequence. He was clearly having problems managing his money at the time. And whilst
this loan was to consolidate some of his debt, his financial instability was evidently such that
it was irresponsible to further extend his indebtedness.
It follows I currently think Lendable was wrong to give the loan to Mr M.
I havent seen any evidence that Lendable treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably in some
other way.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision and accepted the findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any new evidence - and both accepted the conclusion I had reached 
- it follows I have no grounds to change the findings or outcome I set out. 
For the reasons set out above I find Lendable was wrong to give the loan to Mr M.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr M to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been given to him. So he has lost out and Lendable must put things right.
It should:
Refund all the interest and charges  so add up the total Mr M repaid and deduct the
sum from the capital amount.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Lendable should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, Lendable
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to deduct tax from this interest. Lendable should give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Lendable Ltd must put things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman