DRN-3702419
The complaint
Dr C complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D & G) cancelled his policy and 
returned his premiums after he made a claim, saying they were unable to honour the policy. 
         
What happened
Dr C took out a policy with D & G in 2021 to cover his Yamaha piano keyboard. 
In March 2022 he contacted them to make a claim as there was a problem with it. 
As D & G were unable to send an engineer to repair it, they offered to send a courier to 
collect it for repair, but Dr C advised them that it would be too heavy for a courier. 
D & G then offered the Pay and Claim option which had a limit of £150 for the repair, but Dr 
C declined this as he thought the repair would cost too much. 
He made several further calls to D & G, after which they refunded his premiums saying that 
they couldnt honour the policy as it had been mis sold. They said that they dont offer 
insurance for musical instruments, and they dont insure appliances over £2000, and if they 
had known both of those facts, they wouldnt have offered the policy.  
They have refunded Dr C the premiums plus 8% interest and offered a £60 goodwill 
payment. 
Dr C was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Dr Cs complaint and thought that D & G had acted 
fairly and reasonably.     
Dr C disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, and I will explain why.
D & G have explained that they dont offer insurance for musical instruments as they dont 
have the engineers to repair them, and they also dont insure items worth more than £2000.  
I think its clear then that this policy shouldnt have been sold to Dr C as D&G would never 
have been able to perform the contract of insurance for the piano. 
So, Ive looked at what happened during the sale process and how the mis sale occurred to 
determine whether D & G have acted fairly in cancelling the policy, refunding the premiums 
and offering £60 as a good will gesture.  To do this Ive listened to the calls and considered 
the documents provided by both sides. 
In the sales call, Dr C refers to the item he wants to add to the policy as a digital keyboard. 
He doesnt refer to it as a piano or a musical instrument and so it appears that that the call 
handler has mistaken this for a computer keyboard and has recorded it on the policy 
documents as a computer peripheral. Dr C was sent the policy documents referring to it as 
a computer peripheral, which is an incorrect description, but I cant see that he has queried 
this following receipt of the policy. 
If it had been clear in the call that the item was a piano keyboard, the policy wouldnt have 
been offered by D & G, and if Dr C had queried it following receipt of his policy, the policy 
would have been cancelled. 
There is also some miscommunication in the call about the value of the piano. When asked 
about the value, Dr C says he paid £4 -5000 for it. The call handler mishears him and asks 
whether he said £4-500, to which he replies thousand, meaning four to five thousand, but 
the call hander takes to be £1000. She repeats this to Dr C but he doesnt correct her. As a 
result, the value of £1000 is recorded on the policy document, which was sent to Dr C, so he 
will have been aware of the discrepancy in value, but again he hasnt queried this. 
Had the call handler not misheard or the value had been clarified, the policy wouldnt have 
been offered by D & G, and if Dr C had queried it following receipt of his policy, the policy 
would have been cancelled as the value exceeded £2000, which is the maximum that D & G 
will insure an item for.  
So, whilst Im satisfied that the policy that was sold to Dr C wasnt appropriate for his needs, 
I dont think it is entirely D & Gs fault, but that the policy sold incorrectly due to 
miscommunication on both sides during the sale process.
I appreciate that it will have been disappointing to Dr C to find out he wasnt covered in the 
way he hoped, but in view of what I have said above, I consider that the resolution offered by 
D & G is fair in these circumstances. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and Domestic and General Insurance Plc do 
not need to do anything further.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman