DRN-2391797
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold his income protection policy.
What happened
Mr A had an income protection policy sold to him by Lloyds in 2004, and made a claim on it 
in 2020 after being made redundant. That claim was declined, because the policy only 
covered lost income if a policyholder was incapacitated due to ill health. 
Mr A complained to Lloyds. He said it had sold the policy to him on the basis it would cover 
lost income in all eventualities, not just ill-health. And he said one of the other products it had 
sold to him at that time (more than one product had been sold in the same meeting) had 
been found to have been mis-sold.
Lloyds said there was no evidence of the income protection policy being mis-sold. It said the 
available evidence from the time of the sale made no reference to redundancy being 
covered. And it said the product that had been mis-sold was different to what Mr As income 
protection policy offered. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr As complaint, and so unhappy with what 
had happened, Mr A approached this service.
Our investigator looked at the available evidence from the time of the sale, and said it set out 
the income protection policy would cover loss of income due to ill health. She also said Mr A 
had signed paperwork which outlined thats what it would cover. And she said there wasnt 
anything which demonstrated cover for redundancy had been discussed at the time. 
Our investigator also said one product being mis-sold during the 2004 meeting didnt mean 
every product had been mis-sold. And she said one of the reasons the other product had 
been found to have been mis-sold, was because Mr S had this income protection policy in 
place. So, she didnt recommend Mr As complaint be upheld either.
Mr disagreed and reiterated his original concerns. He also said some of the information 
recorded in the sales documentation wasnt accurate, and he shared further details about 
tactics he thought had been used to sell the policy to him. So, as no agreement was 
reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When selling Mr As income protection policy, Lloyds needed to make sure it was suitable for 
his circumstances and needs at the time. Looking at the available evidence from the time of 
the sale, a fact find was completed which cited Mr As needs as follows, you were 
concerned that because you have taken a new mortgage that you wish to ensure that if you 
were unable to work due to sickness or accident you could afford to meet your new monthly 
bills and maintain your current standard of living.
A personal summary and recommendations letter, which was signed by Mr A, also set out 
that Mr As priority was to get advice on protecting his income against long term sickness. 
And the suggested solution for him within that was cited as an income protection plan which 
would provide a monthly benefit in the event of sickness or disability. The same letter 
further set out, if you were unable to work due to ill health, as defined in the product key 
features document, you would receive the maximum allowable benefit under such 
policies.  
I can also see a quotation document which explained the relevant incapacity definition for 
the income protection policy being sold was, as a result of sickness or accident, you are not 
able to carry out the material and substantial duties of your normal occupation. And a key 
features document, which Mr A also signed a declaration to confirm hed received, stated the 
policy provided a regular monthly income, if you become sick or have an accident and cant 
work resulting in a loss of earnings. So while I appreciate Mr A says the policy was sold to 
him on the basis it would cover a loss of income in any eventuality, the available evidence 
does not support that. 
Mr A says some of the information recorded about his circumstances was incorrect. But Mr A 
signed a number of documents to confirm the information recorded about him at the time of 
the sale was correct. I acknowledge the wider concerns Mr A has about the sales process, 
for example he says he didnt know what he was signing given the volume of paperwork 
presented to him. And while I empathise with his frustration, there is no additional evidence 
to substantiate these concerns. 
I accept that one of the other policies sold to Mr A during the same meeting was found to 
have been mis-sold, but it does not automatically follow that this income protection policy 
was also mis-sold because of that. There is no contemporaneous evidence to demonstrate 
that the income protection policy was sold on the basis it would cover a loss of income in any 
eventuality. And as our investigator rightly explained, one of the reasons the other product 
was found to have been mis-sold was because Mr A had this income protection in place (in 
that it was thought both products werent required as they provided similar benefits). 
These findings are in no way intended to take anything away from the strength of feeling 
Mr A has about what happened. But in view of the reasons I have given above, I cannot 
fairly conclude this policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman