DRN-1772702
 
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the response she received from Homeserve Membership 
Limited (Homeserve) when she enquired about payments that had been taken from her bank 
account. 
 
What happened
For many years Mrs B has had a home emergency policy arranged through Homeserve. So 
has her son, Mr B. Mrs B raised a query with Homeserve when she noticed a payment to it 
for £75 go out from her bank account.
Homeserve undertook an investigation and traced the payment to a policy in the name of Mr 
B, who lives at a different address.  This policy had been running for some 20 years.
Homeserve says that Mr B set up a home emergency insurance policy in 1999. Hed 
originally set up his own direct debit for the premiums, but this was cancelled, and the first 
premium was then paid for by cheque. A second cheque payment failed, and contact was 
then made with Homeserve on 22 September 2000 and a direct debit from Mrs Bs account 
was set up. All subsequent quarterly payments from 19 October 2000 until 22 March 2019 
had been taken by direct debit from Mrs Bs account.
Mrs B doesnt remember setting up this payment arrangement. When she saw two payments 
each quarter going out from her account, she thought that they were both hers  one for 
plumbing cover, and one for electrical cover. She didnt realise that one of these payments 
was for her sons policy. Homeserve says she told it that he didnt know he had a policy 
although renewal confirmations had been sent to him each year via post which detailed the 
bank account from which the premiums for his policy were to be taken, which was Mrs Bs 
account. Mrs B wants a return of all the premiums she has paid together with interest.
Mr B says he cancelled his policy in 2010 but he continued to receive renewal confirmations, 
and premiums continued to be taken from Mrs Bs account. Homeserves records also show 
that claims were made on Mr Bs policy on 2 September, 4 September and 9 September 
2013. Mr B also says that he cancelled the policy in late 2013, but again, he continued to 
receive renewal confirmations and premiums continued to be taken from Mrs Bs account. 
Mr B, on behalf of Mrs B, says that its improbable that Mrs B wouldve spoken to 
Homeserve on 22 September 2000 to discuss setting up a direct debit payment as she was 
on holiday abroad at that time. Unfortunately given the number of years that have passed, 
there is no telephone record to verify any such call. 
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with the response shed received from Homeserve when she queried 
how a payment had been set up from her account in 2000, so she raised a complaint. 
Homeserve rejected her complaint, so it was brought to this service.
Mr B on behalf of Mrs B has expressed dissatisfaction with Homeserves response and 
claims that its records are incorrect in a number of respects. Our investigator considered the 
information available, and having reviewed Homeserves records, was persuaded that Mrs B 
had set up the direct debit in September 2000. He therefore didnt consider that Mrs Bs 
complaint should be upheld.
Mrs B doesnt agree with our investigators view, so her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Although there is no recording of the conversation thats said to have taken place on 22 
September 2000 between Homeserve and Mrs B, Ive seen Homeserves contemporary 
records, which state: 
1 - cust sending chq for full amount to clear balance cust having probs with his bank 
17/03/99 
2 - Customer has called to confirm that he is sending a cheque for the full amount as he 
bank have refused his dd again 06/04/99
3 - had the cheque sent back to him as no pol number quoted, gave him his pol number he 
will send the cheque back to us again 19/04/99 
4 - cust renewed plumbing cover on a quarterly direct-debit, spoke to Mrs B about
the renewal, 22/09/00.
5 - cust mother who is paying the dd called for collection dates 04/10/00
6 - Mrs Bs mother (sic) called to confirm payments ok, confirmed 26/07/01
In the above records I read cust to refer to Mr B as it was he who was setting up the policy. 
I also assume the reference to Mrs Bs mother in item 6 above should in fact be to Mr Bs 
mother. Ive seen nothing to suggest that these records arent accurate.
These records, particularly item 4 above, are sufficient to persuade me that it is more likely 
than not that Mrs B had a conversation with Homeserve on 22 September 2000, that she 
provided her bank details to enable the direct debit to be set up, and that she had 
subsequent conversations with Homeserve on 4 October 2000 and 26 July 2001 about the 
direct debit arrangements.
The first direct debit payment was taken for Mr Bs policy on 22 September 2000, which 
coincides with the date of the alleged telephone conversation. Mrs B didnt take out her own 
policy with Homeserve until three months later. So in September 2000, Homeserve wouldnt 
have known Mrs Bs bank details unless shed provided them.  
I can understand that Mrs B may have thought that the two payments leaving her account 
each quarter were for her own policy  one for plumbing cover, and one for electrical  and 
that therefore she didnt realise that she was paying for her sons policy.
But I consider that Mr B mustve been aware that he had a home emergency policy and that 
he wasnt paying for it. He says he cancelled the policy in 2010, but Homeserves records 
show that he made three claims under it in 2013. He also says he cancelled it in late 2013, 
and its only because his mother queried the two payments to Homeserve in 2019 that he 
discovered there was still a live policy for his property. But hed continued to receive annual 
renewal confirmations each year. An example from September 2018 begins: 
Relax. You are covered
Dear Mr BWe re writing to let you know that your Plumbing and Drainage Plus through HomeServe 
is due to renew automatically on 22 September 2018 You don't need to do anything - you 
will be covered for another 12 months If a problem occurs, just call us and we'll be there 
to help.
These renewal confirmations also gave details of the bank account from which the premiums 
were going to be taken. It shouldve been clear to Mr B that this wasnt his account as he has 
said he banks with a different bank. And if hed cancelled the policy but continued to receive 
renewal confirmations, he couldve contacted Homeserve to query why he was still receiving 
confirmations of continuation of cover.
I must make my decision based on the information that I have, and I have Homeserves 
records. I accept Mr Bs point that sometimes records contain errors, but it isnt enough for 
Mr B on Mrs Bs behalf simply to say that a record is wrong without supporting that with 
some evidence to displace the reasonable assumption that it is correct. For example, he 
hasnt provided any evidence in the form of a letter or email that he cancelled his policy in 
2010 and again in 2013, and simply says Homeserves records are wrong.
All the evidence points to Mrs B having set up a direct debit in 2000, and Homeserve 
properly taking those payments as the premiums for Mr Bs policy.
I consider that Homeserve has acted fairly and reasonably in its investigation of Mrs Bs 
initial query and then her complaint, and theres no basis upon which I can say that its done 
anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman