DRN-3681293
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, unfairly turned 
down his claim made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In April 2013, Mr E, along with his wife, took out a membership of a holiday and lifestyle club 
that Ill call EG. Under the agreement they bought credits that could be used to get 
discounts on holidays and other services. A deposit was paid using Mr Es Barclaycard and 
the balance was paid later by a bank transfer.1
On 17 June 2019, Mr E, using a professional representative (TM), made a claim to 
Barclaycard under s.75 CCA. It was alleged that Mr and Mrs E had been misled by EG about 
the nature of the benefits available to members. In particular, it was said that they had been 
told they would be able to get five star holidays at any time they wished with a 40% 
discount on the going market rate. In fact Mr and Mrs E found that the holidays offered were 
at the same price available on the open market and EG closed down, meaning they lost their 
credits without having taken any membership benefits. TM argued that applying s.75 CCA, 
Barclaycard were jointly liable to Mr E for EGs misrepresentations.
Barclaycard didnt reply to the claim and so, in November 2019, TM referred a complaint 
about Barclaycard to our service.
After that, Barclaycard responded to the claim. It said that in this case Mr Es Barclaycard 
wasnt used to pay EG directly, rather the payment went through a third party that Ill call R. 
R first exchanged Mr Es payment from pounds to euros and then sent the payment to an 
account Mr E nominated. Because of that, Barclaycard said there wasnt the right sort of 
arrangement in place for s.75 CCA to apply.
One of our investigators considered the evidence and agreed with what Barclaycard said, 
but TM disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered again.
A second investigator considered things again and said she didnt need to make a finding on 
whether the right sort of arrangement was in place to make a s.75 CCA claim. That was 
because, even if she thought there was the right sort of arrangement in place, the claim for 
misrepresentation had been made too late under the provisions set out in the Limitation Act 
1980 (LA). She also considered another provision of the CCA (s.140A), but didnt think this 
helped Mr E either.
TM responded to say it disagreed. It noted that Mr E didnt realise there was a problem with 
EG until July 2013 and he had made his claim within six years of that date, so he was within 
the periods set out in the LA. It was also said that, alongside a misrepresentation claim, 
there was also a claim for a breach of contract when EG closed. This claim could also be 
made under s.75 CCA.
1 As the Barclaycard used was Mr Es, only he was able to make the claim that is the subject of this 
decision
As there was a disagreement about the outcome of this complaint, it was passed to me for a 
decision.
Having considered everything, I came to the same overall outcome as our investigators 
reached, but for different reasons. So I issued a provisional decision, setting out initial 
conclusions and asking for both sides to send in anything further they wanted me to think 
about.
I started by setting out the relevant parts of the CCA, as Mr E had made a claim under s.75 
CCA.
That included s.75(1) CCA, which states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier.
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
Finally, under s.187(1) CCA:
A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-existing 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in accordance 
with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made between [the creditor and 
the supplier, one of them and an associate of the others or an associate of one and 
an associate of the others].
Considering those provisions together, I said for s.75 CCA to apply there had to be a DCS 
agreement in place as defined in s.11, 12 and 187 CCA.
In this case Mr E was the debtor, as he borrowed money from Barclaycard to pay for 
membership. Barclaycard was the creditor as it was the business that issued the credit card 
and provided the credit for Mr E to use. Finally, the supplier was EG, as it was the business 
that was going to provide the benefits of membership to Mr and Mrs E.
I noted that in actual fact the credit card payment was used to credit a bank account of a 
Spanish business Ill call RS. It was also this business to which Mr E paid the balance of 
the membership cost. I didnt think it was in dispute that RS was part of EG and linked to 
British businesses that also formed part of EG. So it appeared that the money ended up with 
the supplier.
However, Mr Es payment went through a third party business, R, so I needed to consider 
whether its involvement meant a DCS agreement was in place due to the arrangements in 
place between the parties.It has been held that the word arrangements is capable of carrying a broad meaning and 
such arrangements can be found when there is no direct relationship between the supplier 
and card issuer, for example via the use of merchant acquirers in credit card schemes or 
when one business processes payment on behalf of another.2
Mr E said that he made an initial payment when on holiday using his credit card in an 
electronic point of sale machine (card machine). He said he was given a receipt for the 
purchase, so he believed he paid the supplier directly.
However, Mr Es credit card statement shows he didnt pay the supplier, rather he paid a 
business R and he has provided a deal summary from R along with the complaint. Our 
investigator contacted R and was told that Mr E had an account with it and that he would 
have logged in to make a payment using his email and password. It says payment was taken 
from his card in pounds and then transferred to the account number provided in euros. R 
said it had no relationship with RS, the EG entity that received the payment.
As the method of payment wasnt clear, our investigator asked Mr E to confirm whether he 
remembered using a card machine or whether he paid online. TM responded to say he 
remembers using a card machine.
Having considered all of the evidence, I thought it was more likely that Mr E made a payment 
online. I said that due to both what R had said, but also because of the deal summary that 
Mr E provided to us. That document didnt look like a card machine receipt, but appeared to 
show that Mr E used R to exchange money and then transfer it to a nominated bank 
account. It also showed that he paid £4 in transfer fees and £23.70 in payment fees to R to 
undertake the transaction. It was noted at the top of the document that the account name 
with R was Mr Es name and he had a specific client number.
I thought the deal summary was a record of the transfer that Mr E instructed R to make and, 
based on what R had said, I thought this was most likely done online. So I didnt think Mr E 
paid for EG membership by using his Barclaycard in a card machine. I said I understood this 
didnt fit with Mr Es recollections, but I also said I know that memories can and do fade with 
time. So I wasnt surprised if Mr E couldnt remember the precise way he made payment 
almost ten years ago.
R explained that once it received a clients funds it paid those into the nominated bank 
account. So I didnt think R would have been acting on behalf of RS when it took payment 
from Mr Es card, nor did I think there were any arrangements between R and RS. Rather, I 
thought the arrangement was between Mr E and R, such that it was acting on his behalf in 
making the payment. Having considered everything, I didnt think RS and R were sufficiently 
linked such at there was a DCS agreement in place. It followed, therefore, that I didnt think 
Barclaycard acted unfairly in turning down the s.75 CCA claim.
Our investigator also considered whether there was a potential claim under s.140A CCA. 
However, having considered the letters of claim sent by TM to Barclaycard, I couldnt see 
that any such claim was made. The letter of claim neither expressly referred to s.140A CCA, 
nor did it allege that the relationship between Mr E and Barclaycard was unfair. As no 
s.140A CCA claim was made to Barclaycard to consider, I didnt think it would be fair to 
consider it within my decision.
TM responded on Mr Es behalf. It was said that Mr E gave his Barclaycard to the RS 
salesman to deal with the payment on his behalf and he had no idea why the payment 
2 See The Office of Fair Trading v. Lloyds TSB Bank Plc [2006] EWCA Civ 268, at 64 and Bank of 
Scotland v. Alfred Truman (A Firm) [2005] EWHC 583 (QB), at 95-98ended up on a R receipt. But the money went to RS, which was part of EG, so it was 
established that a payment was made to EG. TM also argued that as RS was closed down 
due to fraudulent activities, it was no surprise that the payment was mishandled.
Barclaycard didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook to take into account: 
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Having considered everything again, Ive not changed my mind from my provisional decision. 
Ill explain why.
As I noted in my provisional decision, there needs to be a DCS agreement in place for there 
to be a valid s.75 CCA claim. Without such agreement, any claim is bound to fail no matter 
how clear it was that the supplier misrepresented something or breached the associated 
contract. So how EG came to be paid is central to this decision.
I have thought about what Mr E now says  that he gave his card to someone to deal with 
the payment on his behalf and that he didnt know R was involved in the transaction. But I 
also note that is different to what he said before  that he remembered using a card 
machine. So Im not sure I can place much weight on Mr Es memories of the sale as hes 
said two different things about how his card was used. And as I said in my provisional 
decision, Im not surprised if his memories arent clear as the sale took place some time ago 
and the way a payment is taken is not a memorable event.
Mr E provided us with a deal summary from the time of sale that set out how money was 
transferred using R. I appreciate that Mr E may not have fully understood the manner in 
which money ended up in RSs bank account, however I think it is clear that something other 
than a card machine was used to make payment. So I think Mr E would have been aware 
that R was used to transfer the money at the time. And as I have seen no arrangements 
between R and RS, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I cant say there was 
a DCA arrangement in place. If follows I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly in turning 
down the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman