DRN-3444461
The complaint
Mr C is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank Plc treated him unfairly when it 
declined his application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr C held a personal account with Lloyds, which he had also been using for business 
transactions. In March 2021, Mr C decided he wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL), so he approached Lloyds to make an application.
Lloyds required their customers to have a business account before they were offered a BBL. 
Mr C applied to the bank for the business account. However, in April 2021, the account 
application was declined by Lloyds on the basis that Mr C didnt meet the eligibility criteria for 
a BBL under the BBL Scheme rules.
Mr C didnt think he was being treated fairly. He believed he met the Scheme criteria and 
was frustrated by the time hed spent contacting the bank, so he made a complaint. 
Lloyds said it would review Mr Cs application under its appeals process if he could provide a 
copy of his tax return for 2019/20. Mr C wasnt happy to provide this as he said this would 
show a much lower turnover than hed declared on the application and, based on this, he 
wouldnt be able to borrow as much as he wanted. Ongoing discussions took place between 
Mr C and Lloyds over a few days. However the relationship broke down between the parties 
and Lloyds withdrew the option for Mr C to appeal its decision a couple of days after the 
application had been declined.
Lloyds upheld Mr Cs complaint in part. The bank agreed that it hadnt returned some of 
Mr Cs calls when it had said it would, so it paid him £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience. However, Lloyds said Mr C had been given correct information by its staff 
and it had clearly given the reasons his application had been declined. The bank also said 
Mr C had been abusive to its staff and declined to provide the further information it had 
requested to support his application. Lloyds said it wasnt prepared to process any further 
applications for him.
Mr C didnt think this was fair and asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had fairly declined Mr Cs account application as the bank 
didnt have to accept his projected turnover figure. However, he thought Lloyds had given 
Mr C incorrect information about what figure should be used as turnover for the application. 
So he recommended the bank increase the compensation by a further £100 to £150 in total.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so the case as has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Scheme there were specific criteria that a business needed to meet before they 
could apply for a BBL  which included carrying on business on or before 1 March 2020 and 
maximum permitted borrowing from between £2,000 and 25% of their turnover to a 
maximum of £50,000. 
I think its reasonable that Lloyds wanted to check this information before proceeding with 
the account application to ensure Mr C would be eligible for a BBL. I say this because due to 
the specific circumstances at the time, the bank was only opening new business accounts 
for customers who were eligible for a BBL (which was different to how Lloyds would normally 
assess a new business account application). The bank has explained that as part of its 
business account opening criteria, it needed to see that the turnover amount declared on the 
business account application was borne out in the account transactions. Lloyds was entitled 
to set such criteria.
When Mr C initially applied for the account, he said his estimated annual turnover was 
£300,000, with around £150,000 going through the account and that his business had been 
established in February 2019. Mr C says that he entered the incorrect start date for his 
business on the application form and it should have been January 2020 not February 2019. 
So hed actually applied using his projected turnover for 2021 not his actual turnover  which 
he says was permitted under the Scheme rules. 
There is no issue with Mr C having used a projection. The application form he completed 
asked him for a projection for the next 12 months. And businesses that were established 
after 1 January 2019 could use projected turnover figures when applying for a BBL. 
However, Lloyds wasnt obligated to accept any figure provided by a borrower and was able 
to undertake checks to verify the information it had been given.
Although under the Scheme rules, Mr C could use a projected figure for his turnover, by the 
time hed made his application in March 2021 the business had been trading for over a year. 
So the bank was able to see a years worth of turnover going through Mr Cs account, which 
was around £176,000 for transactions which appear to be linked to his sole trader business. 
And this amount, along with the tax return for the quarter which Mr C says was around 
£30,000, were significantly less than the estimated figure that Mr C had provided. Lloyds 
decided that based on the information it seen, it wasnt prepared to accept Mr Cs projection 
 I think this was reasonable.    
Mr C is also unhappy that Lloyds asked him for a copy of his tax return to show his income. 
He says this wasnt a true reflection of his income as it would only show around £30,000. But 
I think this was a reasonable request as part of the banks efforts to assess Mr Cs turnover 
to inform whether it could provide a business account and therefore a BBL to Mr C. And this 
request was in line with the Scheme rules, and therefore the banks account opening criteria 
at this time. 
However, whilst I think the bank fairly declined Mr Cs application, I can see that it did give 
him incorrect information about the turnover figure which could be used to apply for a BBL. 
In error, Lloyds told Mr C that if his tax return only showed £30,000, the bank would only be 
able to give him a BBL for 25% of this amount, so £7,500. Lloyds didnt recognise that this 
was only a quarterly tax return, and therefore if the tax return was to be the basis of the BBL 
amount the bank was prepared to lend, it would have needed to look at 25% of the years 
turnover of £120,000, and therefore a loan of £30,000.
I think this increased Mr Cs frustration as he believed Lloyds was acting outside of the 
Scheme rules. Im satisfied that this wasnt the case  as ultimately the bank is entitled under the Scheme rules to ask for further information  but I think this could have been explained 
to Mr C more clearly. Ive also seen that because Mr C didnt feel he was getting a 
reasonable response from the bank, he made repeated calls  throughout which his 
frustration escalated and eventually the bank withdrew its offer to look at Mr Cs application 
again. 
I think the banks decision to withdraw his application from the appeal process was 
reasonable, however, I think Lloyds caused Mr C distress and inconvenience that could have 
been avoided. So I think Lloyds should pay Mr C a further £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Mr C a 
further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman