DRN-3757513
The complaint
Mr X complains about the actions of Gresham Insurance Company Limited after he made an 
accidental damage claim under his home insurance policy.
References to Gresham include its agents.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr X made a claim under his home insurance (contents) policy with Gresham 
after he accidentally damaged his laptop.
Gresham accepted the claim and arranged for Mr Xs laptop to be repaired. However, after it 
was returned to him, Mr X was distressed to discover that all the data had been wiped from 
it. He said he hadnt been advised to back up his data and hed lost over 16,000 pictures that 
were on the laptop.
Gresham said it was unable to salvage Mr Xs data, which it had wiped for data protection 
reasons. It apologised for not advising Mr X to back up his data prior to the laptop being 
taken for repair and offered him £150 compensation.
Mr X remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into Mr Xs concerns and recommended Gresham pay Mr X a total of £300 to 
compensate him for his loss.
 
Mr X disagreed with our investigators outcome. He didnt think £300 was enough to 
compensate him. He said he was expecting much more because hed lost so much history in 
the form of pictures.
Gresham commented that the policy itself provides no cover for sentimental value. It thought 
its original offer of £150 was fair and reasonable for the avoidable error. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Gresham has acknowledged that it failed to advise Mr X that he should back up the data 
because it would be wiped when his laptop was taken for repair. And its offered Mr X £150 
to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result. So, what 
Ive needed to consider is whether or not this is a fair amount to put things right.
Gresham has accepted that Mr Xs data wouldnt have automatically been backed up to the 
cloud, due to the age of his laptop. Its also taken responsibility for not informing Mr X that he 
needed to back up his data prior to the laptop being taken for repair. From what Ive seen 
and been told, the damage to Mr Xs laptop was to his screen. So, I dont think Mr X would 
have expected his data to be wiped, without Gresham making him aware of this.
Mr X says hes lost around 16,000 photographs, including pictures of his wedding, birthdays, 
holidays and his children growing up. So, Im persuaded that Greshams mistake has caused 
Mr X considerable distress and upset. And I think £300 is a fair amount to put things right.
I appreciate Mr X doesnt think this is enough, given what hes lost. However, I dont think it 
would be fair to hold Gresham entirely responsible for Mr Xs loss. I think Mr X was taking a 
risk by holding all of these important photographs on one device, without backing them up. 
There was always a danger that hed lose them if the laptop was stolen or broken. I dont 
think Mr Xs loss would have been so severe if he had taken steps to regularly back up the 
data on his laptop.
Putting things right
Gresham should pay Mr X £300 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Xs complaint and direct Gresham Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman