DRN-2629098
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim under his landlord insurance 
policy for damage to his let property and cancelled the policy.
What happened
Mr E has a residential property he lets out. He said he let it to a tenant for two years at a 
reduced rent on the basis that the tenant would renovate the house and furnish it. The rent 
was later increased to the open market rent. The letting was managed by an agent.
Mr Es landlord insurance policy renewed on 3 April 2019. On 6 April Mr E made a claim to 
AXA. He said the tenant had left on 31 March without notice and had stolen all the white 
goods, furniture and fittings.
Mr Es broker told him AXA couldnt continue cover on the property as Mr E hadnt told it the 
property was empty before renewal. It said AXA wouldnt have offered renewal if it had 
known the property was empty. It agreed to cover the property up to 16 April and then 
cancelled the policy. It refunded part of the premium. The broker said it couldnt arrange 
alternative cover for Mr E while there was an open claim.
With regard to the claim AXA said the policy only covered fixtures and fittings and not other 
contents. It also said Mr E hadnt been able to show he owned the items claimed for and it 
would have expected to see damage to the kitchen where integrated white goods had been 
removed. It said loss of rent was only covered if it arose because of damage to the building.
Mr E said he didnt have an inventory from his agent. He also didnt have photos of the 
damage as he was out of the country when the damage happened. He said he lives abroad 
and hed relied on his letting agent whod let him down.
In August AXA appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster said that 
Mr E hadnt complied with the conditions of the policy regarding identity checks and credit 
references.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service. He wanted AXA to pay for his stolen fixtures and 
fittings and loss of rent, and compensate him for the increase in his insurance premium.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract from my provisional findings are set out below: 
Some of the stolen items Mr E claimed for were fixtures and fittings, such as the integrated 
kitchen appliances and so were covered by his policy. Its a condition of Mr Es policy that he 
should provide AXA with information it requests in order to validate a claim. Unfortunately he 
wasnt able to provide evidence of the damage to his property or of the items bought by his 
tenant. 
He also wasnt able to show AXA that hed complied with the conditions in his policy for 
malicious damage and theft by tenants. These included obtaining satisfactory credit 
references for the tenant and verifying their identity. Mr E relied upon his agent to carry out 
these checks and unfortunately for him his agent couldnt show theyd been done. I think 
its fair to say that these checks might have revealed that the tenant was a higher than 
average risk of causing this sort of loss. So I dont think AXA treated Mr E unreasonably in 
declining the claim because he couldnt show that hed complied with these conditions. 
Mr Es policy only covers loss of rent if that loss was caused by the building being damaged. 
Damaged in this part of the policy is defined as Accidental loss or destruction or damage 
to property. Since the loss of rent was caused by theft and/or malicious damage, I dont 
think Mr E was covered for this loss.
With regard to the cancellation of his policy Mr E was told by his broker that as he was 
aware his property wasnt occupied prior to renewal of the policy and didnt notify AXA of 
this, it couldnt continue cover on the property and wouldnt have offered renewal terms if it 
had known about the property being empty. AXA hasnt provided us with a copy of the 
relevant underwriting criteria to support this.
Most landlord insurance policies allow for the fact that the property is likely to be empty from 
time to time in between tenancies. That is reflected in the policy wording where the policy 
definition of empty is Wholly unoccupied, mainly unoccupied or not in use by you or any 
of your tenants for more than 45 consecutive days. Mr Es property was in fact only vacant 
for about 19 days. So I dont think AXA treated Mr E fairly in cancelling his policy on the 
ground that he should have told it the property would be unoccupied for a period less than 
45 consecutive days.
I think the unfair cancellation of his policy caused Mr E unnecessary stress and 
inconvenience. His broker couldnt offer him alternative cover because he had an open claim 
with AXA. He says he had to pay £444 for alternative cover compared with the £223 he had 
paid AXA. To put things right I think AXA should pay £221 being the difference in premiums 
and £100 compensation for trouble and upset. It should also remove notice of cancellation 
from internal and external databases so that Mr E isnt unfairly charged more for insurance in 
future.
Mr E responded that for the current year his insurance premium had increased again from 
£444 to £466.20 and he expected it to rise further as a result of the cancellation.
AXA thought Mr E should have told it about the tenant moving out before the policy renewed 
because he had a duty to tell it about changes in risk. It said if it had been notified, it might 
not have wished to renew the policy and if it had invited renewal, it would have charged a 
higher premium of £446.15 because of the property being empty. It didnt agree that Mr E 
was owed any compensation for the increase in premium hed paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties havent objected to my provisional findings regarding the decline of Mr Es 
claim, I see no reason to change them and they now form part of this final decision.
AXA hasnt addressed the point I made in my provisional decision regarding the property 
only being empty for a relatively short time and less than the 45 days referred to in the policy 
definition of empty. Instead it revised the stance taken previously that it could not continue 
cover and said if it had chosen to invite renewal of the policy, it would have charged a higher 
premium. In fact by the time it cancelled the policy, the new tenant was almost ready to move in. So if 
it had renewed at a higher premium, I think its likely the premium would have been adjusted 
downwards a few weeks later. I dont think the fact that a short period of unoccupancy 
coincided with the policy renewal was a good enough reason to cancel the policy. So I think 
AXA treated Mr E unfairly.
With regard to the current years premium Mr E may wish to show this decision to his current 
insurer and ask it to amend the premium to reflect the fact that no cancellation should have 
been declared (as the cancellation was unfair).
Putting things right
To put things right I think AXA should compensate Mr E for the difference in premium plus 
simple interest at 8% a year and pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset it 
caused him. It should also remove notice of cancellation from internal and external 
databases so that Mr E isnt unfairly charged more for insurance in future.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
pay Mr E £221 for the difference in premium plus simple interest at 8% per year from the 
date Mr E paid the premium until the date it reimburses him. 
pay Mr E £100 compensation.
remove any record of the cancellation from internal and external databases.
AXA Insurance UK Plc is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mr E request it, AXA should provide him with a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman