DRN-3706469
The complaint
Mrs R has complained about damage to her furniture which she says hasnt been properly 
repaired by agents appointed by the insurer Acasta European Insurance Company Limited.
Mrs R claimed under a five year warranty policy she purchased in 2019 when she bought a 
three piece sofa. The policy provides cover in the event of accidental damage, including pet 
damage and structural defects. 
All reference to the insurer Acasta in my decision includes it agents. 
What happened
In September 2021 Mrs R made a claim to Acasta for peeling damage caused by pet 
scratching and stain damage to one of the sofas in the suite. An agent attended and carried 
out a repair. 
There were a number of subsequent visits to carry out reinstatement repairs to the suite until 
in March 2022 Mrs R raised a complaint. Mrs R said a colouring used by an agent to repair 
the suite had shown discolour, didnt match and caused peeling. Mrs R said during one of 
the visits, an agent failed to identify new damage shed raised, and an agent had caused 
further damage to the back of one of the sofas. 
In May 2022 Acasta upheld Mrs Rs complaint in part. It asked Mrs R to arrange an 
appointment for an agent to consider the new damage to the three seater sofa. It said Mrs R 
said she would live with the damage on the two seater sofa, which Acasta said was new and 
not related to the original claim. 
It didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint that an agent had caused damage to the back of the three 
seater sofa. And it said that discolouration will occur over time due to wear and tear. 
However, it said usually two or three visits may be necessary to carry out a repair. But in this 
case, it accepted there had been far more. So it paid Mrs R £40 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mrs R remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator found that 
the damage Mrs R complained about appeared to be showing shortly after each repair. She 
explained that this service expects repairs carried out by an insurer to be effective and long 
lasting. Given the chronology, the Investigator found it more likely that the repairs hadnt 
been effective and this was the reason for subsequent visits and repair attempts. She wasnt 
persuaded by Acasta that the damage was new - as a result of wear and tear.
In September 2022 the Investigator recommended Acasta should replace the damaged 
items or pay a cash settlement in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
She also recommended Acasta increase the compensation it pays Mrs R by £60, making it a 
total of £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
The Investigator provided Acasta with a copy of the photos provided by Mrs R of the sofa 
suite. 
Both parties replied to the Investigators view.
Acasta didnt agree. It says photos the Investigator relied on which had been provided by 
Mrs R hadnt been reviewed by an expert. It says the same excessive wear and tear that 
caused the initial damage has been causing repairs to fail. It says it based this decision on 
expert opinion that hasnt been disproved. Acasta says one of the areas reported as a failed 
repair was not in fact repaired.
Mrs R reiterated that each time a repair was carried out, the sofa(s) became discoloured and 
started to peel a short time later. She doesnt agree the damage was caused by new wear 
and tear. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to repeat the timeline in the same level of detail in my decision as Acasta set 
out in its reply to Mrs Rs complaint in April 2022. But I can assure both parties Ive reviewed 
all of the information and I will refer to the salient points. 
There isnt a dispute as to the number of visits that have taken place to carry out repairs to 
Mrs Rs sofa suite. There have been subsequent visits in October, November, December 
2021, March and May 2022. The first set of repairs involved applying a colouring solution to 
the two seater sofa. Since then, Mrs R has reported discolouration and peeling to both sofas 
and has been very unhappy with the standard of repairs. 
Mrs Rs policy says it will provide cover for her furniture as follows:
Leather: Accidental damage (including staining) resulting in a:
 Rip or tear  Burn  Scratch  Puncture  Scuff  Staining from any substance
It provides accidental damage caused by pet damage to one claim under the policy. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think Acasta has shown that the damage Mrs R is unhappy 
about hasnt been caused by the standard of the initial and reinstatement repairs. I dont 
think Acasta has shown the damage was caused by new wear and tear. Acasta accepted 
the original claim - and so it cannot now say the original cause of damage was wear and tear 
which is excluded under the policy. The Investigator provided the photos from Mrs R to 
Acasta and gave it the opportunity to review and provide further comment.
As the Investigator explained, its for an insurer to carry out effective and long lasting repairs. 
Its clear from the timeline that repeated attempts to repair the original damage hasnt been 
successful. And its accepted that an agent attempted to carry out repairs to the three seater 
sofa which has also caused discolouration within a short period of time after. 
So Im upholding this complaint. I agree with the Investigators recommendations to put 
things right as a fair outcome as set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acasta European Insurance 
Company Limited to do the following:
settle Mrs Rs claim in line with the terms of the policy where a cleaning repair 
has been unsuccessful. Increase the compensation it pays Mrs R from £40 (if it hasnt already paid it) to 
£100 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Acasta European Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mrs R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman