DRN-3716050
The complaint
Mr R complains that the mobile phone provided by Telefonica UK Limited under a fixed sum 
loan agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality and he wasnt provided with the service he 
should have been when trying to get the phone repaired.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr R entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Telefonica to acquire a 
mobile phone. He says everything was fine for the first couple of months but in March 2021, 
and again in July 2021, the motherboard needed to be replaced. In May 2022 there was a 
damage to the screen which Mr R reported on 1 June. Mr R wanted this repaired under 
warranty, however he was told that the phone had been dropped and the damage wasnt 
covered under the warranty.
Telefonica issued a final response letter dated 2 August 2022. It said that when a phone is 
sent to be repaired, its evaluated by a qualified manufacturer engineer, and in Mr Rs case 
the phone had screen damage which wasnt covered by the warranty. It said that Mr R would 
therefore need to cover the cost of the repair. It noted that Mr R had visited a mobile phone 
store and left the phone there and said he wouldnt pay the device plan until the matter was 
resolved. Telefonica said it wasnt required to cover the repair cost and that Mr R was liable 
for the payment under his plan. As a gesture of goodwill if offered to provide Mr R with a 
replacement refurbished phone, pay £50 for a shortfall in service and £51.35 refund for the 
month Mr R wasnt able to use his phone (this amount was subsequently increased to reflect 
the time without his phone). 
Mr R accepted the offer but there was an issue. Telefonica didnt have Mr Rs up to date 
address on its system so the refurbished phone was sent to an old address. Mr R raised a 
further complaint and a further final response letter was issued on 11 August. In this 
Telefonica said that when the address issue was identified it contacted the courier for the 
phone to be returned. It noted Mr Rs comments about having previously updated his 
address but said that this issue wasnt identified before the phone was issued and that it was 
Mr Rs responsibility to keep his details up to date. Due to further issues in resolving the 
address on the call Telefonica retracted the replacement phone offer.   
Mr R referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted the initial issue with the phone was 
repaired and that the damage was a separate issue. He said that as the damage fell outside 
of Mr Rs warranty and so Telefonica hadnt done anything wrong by not covering the cost of 
the repair. He noted the issues Mr R had experienced when the replacement phone was 
sent to an old address but said that it was Mr Rs decision to leave his handset with the 
branch and to stop making his repayments. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R acquired a mobile Phone through a fixed sum loan agreement. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Telefonica could be held liable if the mobile 
phone wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. In this case, Mr R has noted that 
the motherboard needed to be replaced in March 2022, and then again in July. Given the 
initial replacement was around three months after supply this suggests that the phone wasnt 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. A possible remedy in such a situation is repair 
and as this happened at no cost to Mr R I find this was a reasonably outcome. 
Mr R says that the motherboard then needed to be replaced again in July 2022. I dont have 
details of the underlying issue that meant repairs were needed but given this was the second 
replacement motherboard it could have been an option for Mr R to have asked to reject the 
phone at that point. However, as Mr R accepted the repair, this was undertaken without cost 
to Mr R and I have nothing to suggest this repair wasnt successful or the issue was ongoing 
I do not find I need to consider this issue any further.
Mr R then reported damage to the phone on 1 June 2022. This isnt linked to the previous 
issue, and I have nothing to suggest it arose due to a fault rather than accidental damage. 
The damage was assessed and found to fall outside of the warranty, therefore I do not find 
that Telefonica did anything wrong by saying Mr R would be liable for the repair cost.
While I do not find that Telefonica was required to provide a replacement phone, I note it 
offered to do so (a refurbished phone). This was sent to the address Telefonica had on file. 
While I note Mr Rs comments about updating his address, I have nothing to show this 
happened and so I cannot say Telefonica did anything wrong by sending the phone to the 
address it held. When Mr R raised the issue about the address, I can see that Telefonica 
tried to deal with this. 
So, while I understand that Mr R is upset by the experience he has had, I do not find that I 
can say Telefonica did anything wrong. While the dispute was ongoing Mr R remained liable 
for his repayments and it was his decision to return the phone to a branch and stop making 
his repayments. 
In conclusion, I do not find that Telefonica did anything wrong by not covering the cost of the 
damage repair and I cannot say it did anything wrong when it sent the replacement phone to 
the address it had on file. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman