DRN-3170733
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided (cancelled as if it 
never existed) his insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr C took out a home insurance policy online with Admiral, for a property 
he had purchased. In December he called Admiral to inform it that he was re-wiring the 
property so wouldnt be fully moving in until January 2021.
Admiral subsequently informed Mr C his policy had been avoided and refunded him the 
policy premiums. It said he had made a misrepresentation when he took out the policy, as he 
had said he would be living in it from the date the policy began. Further, it said the policy had 
a condition that the property cant be unoccupied for more than 45 days. And the move in 
date in January would mean it would be.
Mr C didnt think this was fair and made a complaint.
Admiral didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that when Mr C took the policy out, he had 
been asked Is the property currently occupied by you? to which he had answered yes. It 
said this was a misrepresentation as he hadnt yet moved in. It said it wouldnt have offered 
the policy if the question had been answered correctly. Further it said the policy had a 
condition that the insured property cant be unoccupied for more than 45 days, and Mr C had 
said he wouldnt be moving in until January, so this would also apply. 
Mr C didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said she agreed Mr C had 
made a misrepresentation when he took out the policy and that Admiral acted fairly, and in 
line with the relevant law, by avoiding it. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
When the complaint came to me, I reviewed everything and came to a different outcome to 
our investigator.  
My provisional decision 
Admiral said in its final response to Mr Cs complaint that it thought he had made a 
misrepresentation when he took out the policy. And that it wouldnt have offered the policy if 
he had provided correct information. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
From considering the evidence, I agreed with Admiral that Mr C made a misrepresentation 
when he answered the question about whether he currently occupied the property, when he 
took the policy out. 
However, Admiral hadnt provided any evidence to show that if this question had been 
answered correctly, it wouldnt have offered the policy or offered it on different terms. It had 
only shown that the policy wouldnt be provided if the property was unoccupied for more than 
45 days. When Mr C took out the policy, Im satisfied that he intended to occupy it within 30 
days, so he didnt make a misrepresentation regarding this point. So I dont agree Admiral 
has shown that Mr C made a qualifying misrepresentation and therefore, under CIDRA, it 
doesnt have the right to avoid his policy.
I wrote to Admiral and Mr C to explain my position. I said I intended to require Admiral to 
remove the avoidance from its records and any industry records and pay Mr C £400 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
Response to my provisional decision
Admiral responded to say it now accepted that Mr C hadnt made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. But it said that the policy still requires that the property isnt unoccupied 
for more than 45 days in a row. And when Mr C called up to advise he wouldnt be moving in 
until January, this would mean he would breach this condition. So, it said it was right to avoid 
his policy.
Mr C responded and accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Admiral has said but this doesnt change my position as outlined in my 
provisional decision. When Mr C called Admiral in December, this was less than 30 days 
since the inception of the policy. So at that time he hadnt breached the condition. And he 
was acting honestly by reporting his change in circumstances. 
When he reported the change, Id expect Admiral to draw his attention to the condition. This 
would give Mr C the opportunity to change his plans and move in sooner or cancel the policy 
himself and seek insurance elsewhere, in order to avoid having an avoidance registered 
against him. Instead it later told him that his policy had been avoided, and I dont think this is 
fair. 
For these reasons I dont think Admiral has acted fairly by avoiding Mr Cs policy. It hasnt 
proved a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA and hasnt applied the policy condition 
its relied upon fairly. So I see no reason to depart from my provisional outcome.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Remove the record of the avoidance from its own and any industry records.
Pay Mr C £400 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman