DRN-2966920
The complaint
 Mr S and Mr J complained because Starling Bank Limited refused to refund them when a 
cash machine didnt dispense the cash, but still debited their account.
 
What happened
 On 11 August 2020, Mr S and Mr J were in Europe. Mr S tried to withdraw €250, equivalent 
to £225.25, from their Starling account. The cash machine crashed during the transaction 
and the money wasnt dispensed  but Mr S and Mr Js account was debited. A friend stayed 
outside the bank in case the machine gave out the cash, while Mr S went inside the bank to 
speak to a bank clerk. He said the clerk was blunt and just said Mr S would have to contact 
Starling. Mr S thought the clerk put an Out of order notice on the machine. Mr S contacted 
Starling straightaway.
Mr S tried his Starling card at another cash machine nearby, but it wouldnt pay out cash 
because there was a €250 daily limit, which had been used up by the previous failed 
transaction. Mr S used a card with another bank to obtain €250 cash, but he had to pay an 
extra transaction fee and the exchange rate was worse. Using his Starling card wouldnt 
have incurred any international transaction costs. 
On 17 August, Starling raised a chargeback with the bank abroad, and made a temporary 
credit to Mr S and Mr Js account.
On 14 October, Starling told Mr S and Mr J that the other bank had defended the 
chargeback, saying the money had been dispensed. So Starling re-debited the £225.25 from 
Mr S and Mr Js account. It said that if Mr S wanted to continue his dispute, hed have to 
contact the other bank direct. 
Mr S complained. He asked Starling what evidence theyd requested from the other bank  
for example CCTV; what happens when a cash machine crashes during a transaction; 
whether theyd checked about any planned maintenance; or whether, as shown on Mr Ss 
photo, the machine had malfunctioned and gone into an automatic shutdown. Starling didnt 
answer Mr Ss questions, and just repeated that the other bank had defended the 
chargeback.
Mr S and Mr J told Starling they were very disappointed with its handling of their complaint. 
They said they didnt believe Starling had taken their evidence into account, which had 
included the photo with a time stamp of the cash machine error message. They closed their 
accounts with Starling and complained to this service.
Our investigator asked Starling for a lot more information. It had provided a journal roll, but 
only for 8 minutes, and without codes or translation. Among other things, the investigator 
asked for:
- a longer period on the journal roll;
- details of the codes and translations;
- details of when the cash machine had next been checked and what was found;
- evidence of whether it had balanced correctly;
- the effect of a technical breakdown on transactions in progress; 
- a copy of the purge bin report (where unused or damaged notes are returned); and 
- whether there had been any other disputes that day. 
Starling replied that the document it had already sent was the only one it had. 
Our investigator also asked Mr S for evidence of the replacement transaction which Mr S 
had made the same day. Mr S sent this, which showed a debit of £232.57. The statement 
said this was for a €250 withdrawal and included a non-sterling transaction fee of £6.22. The 
exchange rate must also have been less favourable, because this cash withdrawal cost Mr S 
£7.32 more than the £225.25 which Starling had debited.
The investigator upheld Mr S and Mr Js complaint. He said there were three possible 
scenarios:
- that Mr S had indeed received the cash;
- there had been a cash trap or device fitted to the machine, or a technical fault; or 
- Mr S hadnt waited long enough and the money had been picked up by someone 
else later.
The investigator said that although he appreciated there were challenges with the cash 
machine owner being abroad, the responsibility still lay with Starling to provide the evidence. 
Mr S had already provided Starling with his photo of the machine error message, so the 
investigator thought Starling should have asked more questions of the cash machine 
provider. He said he wasnt satisfied from the evidence that the cash had been correctly 
dispensed. So he said Starling should pay Mr S and Mr J the £225.25 it had previously 
debited from their account.
Starling didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision.
 My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I explained that the relevant regulations for transactions taking place in August 2020 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. The relevant section says:
Evidence on authentication and execution of payment transactions
75 (1) Where a payment service user  
a) 
b) claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider (here, Starling) to prove that the payment transaction 
was authenticated, accurately recorded, entered n the payment service providers accounts 
and not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the service.
So its for Starling to prove that Mr Ss attempted transaction took place correctly.
I considered that the evidence which Starling provided wasnt sufficient to show this. It 
showed a limited time period for the machine, without explanation for the codes especially 
those before and after Mr Ss transaction, which could indicate a fault. And Starling also 
hadnt provided the other evidence which wed expect to see, and which we requested  as 
Ive listed above.In contrast, Mr S reported the problem straightaway inside the bank, took a time-stamped 
photo of the error message, and reported it immediately to Starling when the bank cashier 
wasnt helpful and said he had to contact Starling. He also provided documentary evidence 
that he took money out at another location instead. And I noted that a friend waited outside 
at the machine while Mr S went inside the bank  so its unlikely the machine did eventually 
dispense the notes later than it should have done. Mr Ss account has been consistent and 
convincing. 
So I considered it was very unlikely that Mr S received the cash from the disputed 
withdrawal. I couldnt tell whether the problem was a technical one with a machine failure 
during the transaction, or a cash trap device fitted to the machine. But that makes no 
difference  its still for Starling to provide evidence that the transaction was authenticated. 
That applies even though the cash machine was abroad.
So I said that I intended to order Starling to refund Mr S with the disputed £225.25. 
But I also saw that Mr S had a financial loss, as well as inconvenience, as a result of the 
problem. He sent us a copy of his statement with a major UK bank, which showed that he 
paid £7.32 more to get his €250, than he would have done if the Starling transaction had 
gone ahead. The bank statement specifically set out that the cost included a £6.22 non-
sterling transaction fee. The rest would have been down to different rates offered by different 
locations. As it took place the same day, I thought it was unlikely the difference could have 
been any significant exchange rate movement. I considered that Mr S and Mr J should be 
refunded for this financial loss, as well as the £225.25 which was debited from the account. 
I also recognised that Mr S and Mr J suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of this 
problem. Mr S had to try two other machines before getting the cash he wanted, and had the 
frustration of having to pay more for it. And there were significant service failings by Starling.  
When he asked Starling questions during his complaint  for example what happens when a 
cash machine crashes during a transaction  he didnt get a substantive reply. All Starling 
said was that the retailer has successfully contested our actions. It told Mr S there was 
nothing more it could do, and if he wanted to pursue it, he would have to do this direct 
himself. I found this was poor customer service. It would have had an impact on Mr S and Mr 
J in terms of frustration and upset, when they tried to get answers  but despite the 
questions and the backup information they provided, they still just met a blank wall in terms 
of Starlings lack of a substantive response. I considered that Mr S and Mr J suffered 
frustration and inconvenience as a result of Starlings poor service, and I said I intended to 
award £100 compensation for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S and Mr J accepted the provisional decision. Starling also accepted the provisional 
decision and said it was willing to pay the sums proposed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions.
My final decision My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Starling Bank Limited to pay Mr 
S and Mr J:
. £232.57 for financial loss, representing the £225.25 debit and the additional £7.32 
which Mr S had to pay to obtain his cash elsewhere that day; and 
- £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman