The complaint
Mr U complains that Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Rosinca Mortgages) has reported 
adverse information on his credit file for a missed mortgage payment. He says the adverse 
information has been unfairly recorded.
What happened
Mr U says towards the end of May 2019 he paid £210 into his account to ensure there were 
sufficient funds for his mortgage payment of £190.65 due at the end of May. However, the 
Direct Debit payment failed on the due date. 
From what I can see, the payment wasnt made until 11 June 2019. Rosinca reported the 
mortgage payment as being made late.
Mr U complained to Rosinca saying he had sufficient funds in the account but as hed been 
moving home at the time, he was unable to receive letters or check whether the payment 
went through on the due date. Mr U says hed been a customer for ten years and hasnt 
missed a payment, and so asked for the late payment showing on his credit file to be 
removed. Rosinca didnt agree and said the information on the fie was correctly recorded as 
the payment was late.
Unhappy with that response, Mr U referred his complaint to this service where it was looked 
at by one of our investigators. Our investigator thought that Rosinca hadnt acted unfairly, 
and so he didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr U disagreed with the investigator and thought the complaint should be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rosinca has provided evidence about Mr Us mortgage payment history and I can see that 
on 1 May 2019, it made its first attempt to collect the contractual mortgage payment for April 
2019 but was unsuccessful. Rosinca tried to take two other direct debit payments on 13 May 
and 31 May, all three attempts were unsuccessful. And so the direct debit instruction was 
automatically cancelled.
This meant that Mr U didnt have an active payment instruction and unless a new direct debit 
instruction was set up, Mr U had to find other ways to make his mortgage payments. A card 
payment was made on 17 May for the contractual payment for April. 
DRN-1512649The effect of this is that at the end of the May when Rosinca was reporting the status of
Mr Us account, the April payment was settled but the payment for May remained 
outstanding. This is because the payment for May was due on the 31 May, but the direct 
debit was rejected. Mr U didnt make the payment for May until 11 June 2019 when he made 
the payment by card.
Mr U has suggested that hes had problems with bank payments and issues with the estate 
agents remitting the rent payment to him on time. He says he took the necessary actions to 
ensure there were sufficient funds in the account to meet the mortgage payment. While I 
empathise with Mr Us points, my role is to consider whether a business, in this case 
Rosinca made an error and has acted unfairly. 
Rosinca was within its right to attempt to take the payment on the due date and as the 
payment wasnt made on its contractual date, the payment was correctly reported as late at 
the end of the month. 
Mr U has questioned why the April 2019 payment wasnt reported as late. Reporting to credit 
reference agencies are usually done on a monthly basis and Rosinca has said the payment 
for April wasnt due until 1 May and so the account would have shown as up to date at the 
end of April when the reporting was done. Also, as Mr U made a card payment in May which 
covered the payment for April, the account would have been up to date for April by the end 
of May but as the payment for May was due on 31 May, it remained outstanding at the time 
of reporting. So, I think Rosinca has been consistent. 
Ive considered Mr Us point about having a strong repayment history with Rosinca and his 
submission about moving home, being ill and the problems hes faced with the estate 
agents, and Im sympathetic towards him. I can see that on each occasion when the direct 
debit was rejected Rosinca wrote to Mr U and in the letter of 31 May 2019, it explained that 
the direct debit instruction was cancelled. Looking at the what has happened, the mortgage 
payment was late and that is what Rosinca has reported on his credit file. 
There wasnt an error made by Rosinca here, and so I cant say it has acted unfairly towards 
Mr U. Rosinca as a financial business has a duty to accurately report the account status of 
its customers to credit reference agencies in line with good industry practice. And, so Im 
unable to ask it to remove the adverse information from Mr Us credit file. I can also see that 
Rosinca asked Mr U to provide evidence to show the estate agents caused the late payment 
and it was willing to consider the £40 administration fee charged  which it appears not have 
charged Mr U. So overall, I dont think Rosinca has acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Us complaint or make any awards against 
Topaz Financial Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman