DRN-4429235
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly handled a legal expenses 
insurance (LEI) claim he made under his home insurance policy, as well as treating him 
unfairly by communicating with him in a particular way.
Any reference to Aviva includes its agents or appointed representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr C had LEI cover with Aviva. He sought to use it to pursue a legal claim related to 
the actions of medical staff.
Aviva had one of its panel solicitors (Company L) assess the claims prospects of 
success. Company L determined the claim did not have reasonable prospects and 
following a back and forth with Mr C and review from a more senior Company L 
solicitor, it stood by its position. And it said if Mr C provided a legal opinion from a t 
suitably qualified person that reached a different conclusion, it would have the matter 
reconsidered by a barrister. And if the barristers opinion supported Mr Cs legal 
claim, Aviva would accept the claim.
Mr C complained to Aviva, saying he did not want the matter to be looked at by 
Company L due to previous interactions with them related to another claim, and that 
the matter had been poorly considered by a junior solicitor. He also said he has 
asked Aviva and its agents to comply with a reasonable adjustment by not using the 
term dear within correspondence as he finds it offensive.
Aviva stood by its position on the claim, saying Company Ls decision had been 
reviewed by a senior member of staff, so was correct. It reiterated the options 
available to Mr C to appeal this decision by providing an alternative legal opinion. 
And Aviva apologised for any mistakes in communication in using a term Mr C did 
not like.
Mr C brought the complaint to this Service, asking for the matter to be referred to a 
different solicitor for review, and compensation. So, one of our Investigators looked 
into things. She didnt uphold the complaint, saying:
oMr Cs policy required any LEI claim to hold reasonable prospects of success 
to be taken forward. And here, Company Ls reasoning was detailed, and 
provided by a qualified individual (and in this case supported by a more senior 
member of staff). So, it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on this advice.
oWhile Aviva couldve sourced an alternative firm - given Mr Cs strength of 
feeling - she didnt think it was reasonable to direct it to obtain a second 
opinion on this basis.
oShe was unable to make a finding on whether Avivas actions amounted to a 
breach of discrimination law but based on the facts and what she considered 
fair and reasonable, she didnt direct it to do anything further.
Mr C disagreed, and he referred to a different complaint that this Service had 
considered, relating to another claim. Within this, the respective Investigator made a 
direction regarding Company Ls actions. Mr C said this showed the firm had a 
history of poor decision making. And he reiterated his strength of feeling regarding 
the term that he finds offensive.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be - which means I will 
only comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. 
This means I wont necessarily comment on everything Mr C has said but I can confirm I 
have read and considered everything provided by both parties when determining the 
outcome that I deem to be fair and reasonable.
In this case, Aviva agreed an insured event has taken place under Mr Cs policy. So, 
I dont need to consider that aspect. But Aviva says the claim is without 50% chance 
of success  which is required under the policy.
Policies of this nature require claims to have reasonable prospects of success  
typically defined as at least 51% and which would recover losses or damages. This 
means if Mr Cs claim was shown to have 51% or greater prospects of success and 
would recover his losses or damages then the claim should be covered (subject to 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy).
In determining if Mr Cs claim had reasonable prospects, Aviva relied on the opinion 
of Company Ls solicitor. This outlined the potential claim Mr C may be able to make 
and assessed prospects at less than 51%. 
This assessment has been shared with Mr C so I wont repeat it here. But Im 
satisfied this was well reasoned and clear. And Aviva is entitled to rely on the legal 
advice it is provided with  unless that advice is obviously wrong. Ive been given 
nothing to suggest this is the case.
Mr C raised concerns with the level of seniority of the member of staff who issued the 
legal opinion on prospects, but Im satisfied their opinion was agreed with by a senior 
member of staff as Aviva has outlined. So, this hasnt changed my mind. Mr C has 
also said Company L shouldve never reviewed the matter due to its decision making 
on a separate claim. And its clear he feels strongly about this. But who Aviva 
chooses to appoint remains its decision providing this is fair and reasonable. And in 
the circumstances, I dont think an unrelated assessment from this Service should 
mean Aviva be limited in offering a firms services.
Following Avivas decision to decline the claim, Mr C was invited to obtain a 
conflicting legal assessment if he disagreed. And it set this out to him on several 
occasions. He hasnt done so, so I see no reason to consider Aviva needs to 
reconsider this matter any further.
Mr C has been clear he does not wish Aviva to use the term dear in 
correspondence as he finds it offensive. And he believes in doing so Aviva has 
breached relevant discrimination laws.
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things 
into account including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
So, although its for the Courts to say whether or not Aviva has breached any equality 
legislation, I have taken this into account, amongst other things when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
In these circumstances its evident that despite Mr Cs request to stop using the term 
dear, Aviva still has done so on several occasions. In its final response letter it has 
apologised for this and explained it had put an alert on his file to avoid this term being 
used, but this had been overlooked due to human error. It apologised, and stated that 
it had never intended any offence, harm or discrimination as a result. In these 
circumstances, Im satisfied Avivas acknowledgement of its mistake, apology and 
explanation is sufficient to put things right and so Im not going to direct it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman