DRN-2836636
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) reduced 
his credit limit.
What happened
Mr G had a Barclaycard with a limit of £22,000. On 29 April 2021, Barclaycard reduced the 
limit to £17,600.
Mr G complained that Barclaycard had done this, and not given him any notice. Hed paid in 
£7,000 to the account and planned to pay for his wedding with the available credit on his 
card  but he couldnt because Barclaycard reduced the limit.
Barclaycard said they reduced Mr Gs limit after a review of his account  this included level 
of borrowing and payment patterns, plus other information from credit reference agencies. 
And this was in line with their responsible lending policies  they didnt want customers to 
borrow more than they could afford.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard had acted fairly - they 
could reduce a customers limit without notice, and this was in the terms and conditions of 
the account. He could see that between August 2020 and April 2021, Mr Gs account was 
over its limit for a lot of the time  so he could understand why Barclaycard took its action.
Mr G asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G wanted to pay for his wedding and so  with the balance at around £21,400 debit (limit 
£22,000), he paid in £6,480 on 26 April 2021. This would then have allowed him to pay for 
his wedding with the available amount in his credit facility. But Barclaycard reduced the limit 
to £17,600 on 29 April 2021  so he couldnt. Mr G told us he wanted to pay for the wedding 
with his credit card so he could get some protection under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act.
Ive looked at what happened. I can see that for a long period of time  before 2020  Mr G 
maintained a good account with Barclaycard. He paid much more than the minimum each 
month and paid off the balance in full on occasions. Generally, outstanding balances were 
low by comparison with the credit limit  usually much less than half of it throughout 2019. 
But  in 2020, I can see that borrowing increased, and there were a lot of over limit 
situations. Monthly payments reduced to the minimum needed, and there were fewer retail 
purchases  so, I can see why Barclaycard took the decision to reduce Mr Gs limit. And 
Barclaycard told us that they were concerned with Mr Gs high level of borrowing.
I looked at Barclaycards terms and conditions for the card. And they can reduce the limit if 
they wished  because of their assessment of their lending risk - and didnt have to give prior 
notice to customers. They say If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk 
or your ability to repay, we have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think 
this would not be appropriate. (However, we may choose to give you up to seven days 
notice). We wont reduce your credit limit to less than your total outstanding balance, plus 
any transactions authorised but not yet charged to your account.
And ultimately, its Barclaycards commercial decision whether they wish to lend to a 
customer, or not  we cant interfere with that. And  we can only make a finding if 
Barclaycard made an error or acted outside their terms and conditions. And based on what 
Ive seen - I cant say that Barclaycard were wrong or acted incorrectly in what they did.
Its unfortunate that the timing of what happened coincided with Mr Gs need to pay for his 
wedding. But  while Mr G will be disappointed by my decision, I cant ask Barclaycard to do 
anymore here.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman