DRN-3135826
The complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Advantage, I include the insurance intermediary that administered the policy 
and others insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr H had a car with automatic transmission. For the year from April 2019, he had his car 
insured on a policy branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. Advantage was the 
insurance company responsible for dealing with claims. 
On 21 January 2020, Mr H was involved in a road traffic incident with a third party. The third 
partys insurer contacted Advantage on 29 January 2020, alleging that Mr H had hit the rear 
of the third partys vehicle. Mr H told his insurer he had rolled forward but hadnt caused any 
damage.
Shortly afterwards, Mr H reported another incident, not involving a third party. He claimed for 
damage to his vehicle. 
The intermediary said it couldnt offer Mr H a policy from April 2020.
In 2021, Mr H complained to Advantage that it shouldnt have settled the third partys claim. 
By a final response dated mid-July 2021, Advantage offered Mr H £30.00 for delay in 
responding formally to his complaint. Mr H brought this complaint to us in September 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Advantage had acted in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
His photographs clearly show no contact damage whatsoever.
By their own admission, the intermediary did not take into consideration his 
photographs or look at the engineering report, or request photographs of the damage 
claimed by the third party/engineer prior to settlement.
Any reasonable person can clearly see that there was no damage and the 
intermediary failed to ask questions. This has facilitated this fraudulent claim to go 
against him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most motor policies, Advantages policy for Mr H allowed it to decide how to deal with a 
claim from a third party. The policy terms included the following:
Your Insurer has the right to:
 Take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim
 Take legal action over any claim.
These actions may be taken in your name...
I consider that the effect of that term was that  on the question of how to deal with a third 
partys claim  Advantages view would prevail over Mr Hs.
I will consider whether Advantage applied that policy term fairly. Unlike a court, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service doesnt hear evidence from both drivers and decide the extent to which 
either of them is responsible for causing injury or damage.
Ive looked carefully at Mr Hs photographs of the rear of the third partys vehicle. I find it 
likely that  immediately after the incident  he wiped the road dirt off and photographed the 
rear of her vehicle. I agree that the photographs show little if any damage.
Im satisfied that Advantage took account of Mr Hs report that  from stationary at traffic 
lights - his car had rolled forward and hit the third partys vehicle but hadnt caused any 
damage.
But Advantage had received a claim from the third party, and it had to deal with that claim.  
The third party claimed that Mr H had damaged the rear of her vehicle. 
In the absence of independent evidence, Advantage decided that  rather than incur the risk 
and cost of a court case  it would settle the third partys claim.
Ive seen an engineers report that identifies the third partys vehicle. It includes details of 
repairs and a named engineers statement as follows:
The vehicle has sustained impact damage, which will require the above listed 
repairs and listed components replaced.
Repair costs have been agreed with the aforementioned repairers with the costs 
considered fair and reasonable by our engineer.
The report contains photographs, some of which show repairs in progress to the rear of the 
third partys vehicle.
Weighing up Mr Hs photographs against the engineers report, I find it more likely that he did 
damage the third partys vehicle. And he has fallen well short of showing that her claim was 
fraudulent.
I consider that Advantage made its decision fairly and reasonably. That led it to record a fault 
claim against Mr H. Notwithstanding that this claim (together with the other claim) has  
already caused him difficulty and higher premiums, I cant say that Advantage treated Mr H 
unfairly.
Im satisfied that Advantage sent a letter dated 23 July 2020 telling Mr H it had settled the 
third partys claim. As there may have been problems with delivery, I dont hold Advantage 
responsible if Mr H didnt receive that letter at the time.For the delay in responding formally to his complaint, Advantage apologised and paid 
£30.00. Im satisfied that it has done enough in that respect. 
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to do any more in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman