DRN-2627954
The complaint
 Miss D complains that an advisor at a predecessor company of Santander UK Plc wrongly
told her that she had to take out life and critical illness cover when she took out a mortgage
in 1999 and when she extended her loan in 2001. She was also told she would have to
increase the cover if she further extended the loan  and so she took over further
unnecessary cover when she increased here mortgage on two subsequent occasions.
What happened
  Miss D said she first met the advisor to switch from her endowment mortgage to a
repayment one. She was repeatedly told this type of mortgage required life cover even
though did not want or need such cover given her workplace provision and the fact that she
was single and had no dependents. She now realises she would have been better off
keeping the endowment policy which would have paid a worthwhile lump sum.
She also enclosed copies of the various mortgage offers which, she said, spelt out that she
was required to take out cover as a condition of the mortgage offers.
After a series of lengthy exchanges, an investigator at this service felt Miss Ds complaint
should be upheld.
She said that while we as a service generally find it appropriate for a lender to recommend
life and/or critical illness cover alongside a mortgage, this did not include someone who is
single with no dependents as there wouldnt be anyone to benefit from the policy in the event
of their death. In this case, Miss D said in her complaint that the property wouldve been sold
to cover any outstanding mortgage in the event of her death  and she, the investigator, had
no reason to believe this wouldnt have been the case.
She noted that Santander argued that Miss D needed the cover because her mum lived with
her and said she wouldve wanted to ensure she was taken care of in the event of her
becoming critically ill or dying unexpectedly. But, she said, that on both the occasions in
which the advisor had recommended life policies, Miss D had repeatedly stated that she
wasnt interested in them. For example, on page 2 of the recommendation letter of August
1999, under Personal Financial Plan, the adviser identified areas which Miss D didnt wish
to discuss, and for which  specific recommendations  wouldnt have been made, and
this included Protection for self and/or family.
On page 3 under the heading Paymentcare, paragraphs one and two explained the 
benefits of having a protection policy but the adviser noted: Although you appreciated the 
value of the benefits provided under the Abbey National Payment care scheme, you did not 
wish to proceed with an application at this present time.
Despite this, his recommendations were based on the assumptions that Miss D
needed to protect her family and repay her mortgage in the event of her death or critical
illness. On page 5 of the August 1999 suitability letter, he stated: (You) wish to have
appropriate life cover to repay your capital and interest mortgage in the event of your death;
have insufficient cover to protect your mortgage; wish to be able to repay your mortgage in
the event of critical illness. With no evidential support, he stated on page 7 that the
recommendations had been  based upon information recorded on the Financial
Questionnaire.
Again, in his October 2001 suitability letter, he wrote, In originally moving or mortgage to
Abbey National, we agreed to protect your mortgage against the financial effects of death
and/or critical illness. You confirmed that this is still important to you. Consequently, you
would like to ensure that your additional loan could also be repaid in such an event. Page 3
outlined the full recommendation for Abbey National Life Protection Plan  Level Cover
Option.
Given these seemingly-contradictory statements and Miss Ds evidence, the investigator felt
Miss D was most likely under the impression that she had to take out life policies
on both occasions.
She also noted that Miss D explained that her mum was financially independent, having sold
her own house and was not living with her daughter for financial reasons. Had she passed
away, her mum wouldve been able to find alternative accommodation in her own right. Miss
D maintained that the house wouldve been sold to pay off the mortgage if shed died. So
she was not persuaded by Santanders argument about this issue.
Overall, she concluded that the life policies recommended in 1999 and 2001 werent
appropriate. She said the adviser had a duty to ensure that the information gathered from
the fact find was clear and unambiguous before presenting his recommendations to Miss D.
From what shed seen, she wasnt satisfied this had taken place. That said, she didnt 
believe the critical illness cover was an unsuitable recommendation.
She noted that the critical illness cover provided by Miss Ds employer (the NHS) was
designed to pay out if she suffered one of a specified range of serious illnesses during the
policy terms. Also, the likelihood is that this wouldve been cancelled had she moved
employment, so she couldnt conclude it was adequate for the purposes of the mortgage.
Further, employment benefits in general, are designed to replace lost income, rather than
cover large financial commitments such as a mortgage.
She therefore felt Santander should refund the premiums Miss D had paid on the 1999 life
cover only policy, having noted that the 2001 policy included critical illness cover and that
this entirely accounted for the premium costs - the life cover being provided free of charge.
Santander disagreed with her conclusions, and said:
She had quoted selectively from the 1999 suitability letter, ignoring sentences which 
stated that Miss D wanted life cover in order to leave her property to her family 
unencumbered
The paragraph which the investigator particularly highlighted did not refer to the 
proposed new policies but her existing endowment plans
The advisors report also confirmed that Miss Ds existing endowment policy included 
life and critical illness cover. This shows Miss D understood the importance of having 
such cover and it was therefore appropriate to recommend she take out like-for-like 
replacement coverThe 1999 policy did include critical illness cover and, along with the 2001 policy, life 
cover was included free of charge
Having reviewed the new evidence Santander provided, the investigator concluded that Miss
Ds complaint should not be upheld as she felt the critical illness cover had been a suitable
recommendation and she had not paid extra for the life cover.
Miss D disagreed, and said:
She hadnt been provided with any evidence that the life cover had been free
More importantly, both applications state: this plan is required in connection with the 
mortgage, this stipulating that the policies were a requirement and not an option 
No discussion took place regarding what would be a good recommendation or 
otherwise; these policies were sold as a condition of any mortgage offer
Her NHS critical illness was far superior to that provided by these policies (she 
supplied details of its provision, and pointed out that she had been a nurse for 30 
years i.e. long before and after the duration her mortgage
In a provisional decision I said:
As I understand it from Santanders evidence, life insurance was not a condition of Miss Ds
mortgage offers in 1999 or 2001. So the first issue I have considered is whether this was
made clear to her, such that she was in a fully informed position to decide whether she
wanted to go ahead with either life cover or critical illness cover.
As a result, having considered all the documentation and Miss Ds recollections, I am not
persuaded that Santander did make this clear. In this respect I agree with the investigators
detailed analysis of the documentation (which is why I quoted from her original view at
length).
In the advisors August 1999 letter, he refers to recommending Miss D take out a life policy
(spelling out the details) but in his September 1999 letter he states: It is an essential part of
your mortgage that the life insurance policies are taken out by you and kept in force. Please
let me know if you do not take out any of the policies mentioned in the mortgage offer. If this
is the case, it is important that we discuss an alternative means of repaying the mortgage.
I acknowledge Santanders point that the overall documentation makes other references to
cover being optional but I dont accept that the sentences the investigator quoted were taken
out of context, particularly the paragraph I have quoted from above. I also dont share its
view that Miss D ought reasonably to have realised the above paragraph referred to her
existing endowment plans rather the recommended policies. It was up to the advisor to make
things crystal clear; he clearly did not do that.
Having considered the overall evidence, plus Miss Ds recollections, I am not persuaded that
the advisor or the documentation made sufficiently clear and unambiguous that life cover
was not a condition of the mortgage.
On the balance of probabilities, I believe Miss D did conclude that this policy was a condition
of the 1999 mortgage offer. I also am satisfied, based on her replies to the advisors initial
questions, that she did not want to take out life or critical illness cover and would not have
done so if fully aware this was simply optional. I also take the same view about the 2001
recommendation.
I dont agree with Santanders argument that because Miss D had originally taken out twoendowment policies which including life insurance and CIC this meant she had actively
chosen such cover  or wanted it to continue. Large numbers of customers were
recommended endowment mortgages in the 80s and 90s as the most cost-effective way of
paying off their borrowing, with the added benefit of an additional lump sum pay-out 
according to advisors. In my experience, the inclusive life cover was not a major factor in
their promotion or the reason why many people chose them.
I dont dispute that it was reasonable to recommend she take out critical illness cover  even
though Miss D had significant workplace cover  but it was crucial for the advisor to clearly
state that this was optional (something I am not persuaded he did). So whether the
recommendation itself was appropriate or not, I am satisfied that this complaint should be
upheld as I dont believe Miss D thought she had a choice to decline it. In this context, I dont
agree with the investigator that the life cover being provided free alters the merits of this
complaint.
Santander should refund the premiums Miss D paid into her 1999 and 2001 policies, adding
8% simple interest per annum to each premium from the date it was paid to the date of
settlement of this complaint. This is conditional on Miss D surrendering the latter policy
without value.
While Miss D was, in my view, and on the balance of probabilities, misled by the advisor at
these two points, I dont think he can reasonably be held responsible for Miss Ds decisions
to extend or take out other cover at later dates.
Santander did not agree with my provisional decision, and said:
We do not agree with the decision that on balance of probabilities Miss D did not 
want to take the policies out. The customer brought the complaint claiming miss-sale 
of her PPI policies with the benefit of hindsight as she did not claim on the policy 
when she held it for the term of the mortgage
The customer took additional borrowing in September 2005 and October 2010 and 
both offers issued in relation to those additional loans confirmed she was not 
required to take any insurance with Santander
We would have expected her to question at this point the existing policies she held 
but there is no evidence that she did until after the mortgage had been redeemed
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As I said in my provisional decision, I am satisfied that the evidence indicates that Miss D 
did not want to take out cover, and that the advisors record acknowledges this. 
Whatever the motivation for Miss Ds current complaint, I am satisfied that the advisor failed 
to make clear that cover was optional in 1999 and 2001 and I still believe, on balance, that 
she would not have taken out such cover if fully informed that it was entirely optional  and 
for the reasons I outlined in my provisional decision.
Many businesses have frequently changed their requirements for cover in relation to 
mortgages over the years, insisting on mortgage protection and then withdrawing such a 
requirement. So the fact that Miss D may have been aware, or ought to have been aware, 
that cover was not compulsory when she subsequently increased her borrowing does not 
mean she ought to have been aware that it hadnt been required in 1999 or 2001.For the reasons previously outlined, I am therefore satisfied that this complaint should be 
upheld.
Putting things right
 Santander should refund the premiums Miss D paid into her 1999 and 2001 policies, adding
8% simple interest per annum to each premium from the date it was paid to the date of
settlement of this complaint. This is conditional on Miss D surrendering the latter policy
without value (assuming it is still active).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Santander UK plc to pay compensation as outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman