DRN-3535557
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of her buildings
insurance claim.
Mrs H is represented in her complaint by Mr H, who for ease, I will refer to below.
All references to Lloyds also include its appointed agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Lloyds dealt with a claim for subsidence at Mrs Hs property in 2008. Repairs were made
and Lloyds carried out a period of monitoring. Lloyds concluded in 2009 that no further
cracking had occurred, and the subsidence had now ceased.
Mr H contacted Lloyds in 2018. He said more cracks had appeared in plaster on the walls
and reported windows installed at the front of the property since 2009 had shown signs of
distortion.
Lloyds attended the property to inspect the reported damage, but said it found no evidence
of subsidence or an insured event occurring. Following this, Mr H moved to a new insurance
provider around May 2020.
Due to ongoing concerns, Mr H had a structural engineer inspect the property in August
2021. They concluded the property was likely suffering from long-standing and progressive
movement.
They suggested Mr H put their findings to Lloyds to be considered as part of the original
claim.
Lloyds didnt agree and advised Mr H to contact his new insurer. Mr H has referred to the
new insurer. it said the claim should be referred back to Lloyds as it failed to adequately
investigate the cause of subsidence and had not provided a suitable and lasting repair.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he brought his complaint to our service. He
said there is evidence there were possible issues with subsidence at the property present
both in 2008 and 2018, which Lloyds had not adequately investigated or identified. And that
Lloyds should accept responsibility for the claim.
Our investigator said Mrs Hs complaint was made six years after the event complained of
and three years after, she ought to have reasonably been aware of cause for complaint. So,
she didnt believe Mrs Hs complaint was one our service could consider.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator and asked for the matter to be put to an ombudsman
to consider.
The complaint then passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 May 2022. I said I wasnt intending to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before considering the merits of this case, Ive considered whether our service has the
power to consider it. The initial claim took place in 2008, longer than six years ago.
However, I consider Mrs H would only have been reasonably aware of cause for complaint
after she received the report from his structural surveyor in 2021, with the opinion the
property had been suffering progressive and long-standing movement.
For this reason, I think our service does have the power to consider this complaint. So, I've
gone on to consider its merits. My decision solely focusses on the actions of Lloyds, not the
new insurer.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. I understand this will
disappointing to both Mrs and Mr H. But Ill explain why.
Lloyds contractors carried out monitoring in 2008 and reported no significant changes during
this period. It also noted no signs of further crack damage related to the subsidence before
repairs were undertaken in 2009.
In 2018 Lloyds used a different contractor to the 2008 claim, they said Mr H provided a copy
of the 2008 report during its visit and noted similar cracking as reported in 2008. The 2018
contractor referenced signs of historic movement, and distortion to windows, as had been
noted in 2008. It noted minor, but no significant cracking, so concluded on visual inspection
there was no evidence of subsidence related damage.
The issue with the drain was discovered in 2021  but this is over 3 years after the 2018
inspection. Lloyds highlighted drainage as a possible issue in 2008, but while it could have
carried out further investigation at the time, it ultimately concluded that the subsidence had
occurred due to another cause. The property was monitored, with four readings taken
showing there had been no further substantial movement.
I think its more likely than not had drainage been the long-term issue, there would have
been further evidence of subsidence, such as larger cracking, when Lloyds contractors
inspected the property 2018. However, it reported no visible evidence of subsidence.
I think on a balance of probabilities, its likely that if the drainage was an issue in 2008, the
issues it caused wouldve become apparent a lot sooner.
In addition to Lloyds contractors, the new insurer also references longstanding and historic
movements evidenced by sloping floors and distorted window openings. And Lloyds
contractors also highlighted issues with the installation of the windows in 2018.
So Im not persuaded the current condition of the property is a result of Lloyds actions - or a
lack of action. And considering what Ive set out above. Im not intending to recommend
Lloyds do anything further.
Mr H may consider pursuing a claim with the new insurer. If he is not satisfied with its
response, he may consider bringing a complaint to our service.Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds said it had no further comments to add.
Mr H provided further comments in which he reiterated Lloyds should accept responsibility 
for the claim, as there is evidence the issues were present in both 2008 and 2018, which 
Lloyds failed to adequately investigate or identify.
Mr H said the 2018 inspection was visual only, which is why no issue regarding drainage 
was suggested at the time. 
Mr H has said the cracking seen at the property is in the same locations as 2008 and 2018 - 
and has got progressively worse.  And the only evidence available as to when the issue with 
the drains arose comes from Mr Hs surveyor. 
Mr H has provided supporting letter from his Surveyor. They advise it would appear the 
extent of movement has been ongoing since around 2009  and the movement is likely 
related to the previous claims. 
Mr H has also forwarded an email from Lloyds sent in October 2021 in which he says it 
suggested the possibility of splitting the claim on a 50:50 basis with the new insurer  which 
he felt seemed to suggest Lloyds acknowledging there is an issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr H said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. Im not 
persuaded the current condition of the property is a result of Lloyds actions - or a
lack of action
Lloyds contractors carried out monitoring in 2008 and reported no significant changes during
this period. It also noted no signs of further crack damage related to the subsidence before
repairs were undertaken in 2009.
I acknowledge the comments from Mr H, provided by his Surveyor, but as Ive set out in my 
provisional decision, I think its more likely than not had drainage been the long-term issue, 
there would have been further evidence of subsidence, such as larger cracking, when 
Lloyds contractors inspected the property 2018. 
In 2018 Lloyds used a different contractor to the 2008 claim. The report in 2018 references 
having access to the 2008 report and that there were no significant changes in the cracking 
 and commenting that its findings were similar as reported in 2008. 
The inspection may have been visual only but considering there were no significant changes 
in the cracking reported from 2008, which had been monitored. Im not persuaded Lloyds 
have done anything obviously wrong.
Ive reviewed Lloyds email to Mr H in October 2021.  The email says if the incident has 
happened within 12 months of the policy being cancelled with Lloyds, the new insurer would 
likely approach it for a shared split of the claim costs under the relevant industry guidance. 
I dont think this either accepts or denies there being an issue at the property, it just simply 
says the new insurer may approach it for a split of costs in certain circumstances.  I appreciate this is a difficult situation for Mr H to be in and as Ive said in my provisional 
decision, he may consider pursuing a claim with the new insurer. If Mr H is not satisfied with 
its response, he may consider bringing a complaint to our service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman