DRN-3219941
The complaint
Mr C complained that his claim for storm damage under his park home insurance policy with 
AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mr C made a claim to AXA under his policy when he noticed damage to his property. He 
advised AXA that the render on the exterior of his park home was bubbling. Mr C believes 
the damage to his property was caused by a storm that occurred a few weeks prior to him 
noticing the damage.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster, who subsequently asked a surveyor to inspect the damage.  
The loss adjuster concluded that the damage was not caused by a storm but believed it to 
be caused by faulty workmanship or wear and tear. As these causes are general exclusions 
in the policy, AXA decided to decline the claim.
Mr C wasnt happy with the loss adjusters conclusions. Mr C said the loss adjuster has 
shown the resulting damage but not the cause. Mr C said his own contractor had said there 
was evidence that his roof had failed due to the storm.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He agreed that there were storm 
conditions around the time of the damage, but he wasnt persuaded this was the main cause 
of damage to Mr Cs property. He thought the evidence suggested the damage to the 
property had been caused over a longer period. Mr C disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr C thinks his claim shouldve been treated as a storm claim, I have considered the 
complaint from this perspective. When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three 
questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
AXA didnt consider whether there were storm conditions, but Mr C indicated there was bad 
weather in the lead up to him noticing the damage to his property. I have checked our 
services resources to understand how severe the weather was around this time.
Less than three weeks before the damage was noticed there was a heavy downpour, with 
13.6 mm of rainfall recorded in a one-hour period. However, there was no other notable bad 
weather outside of this period, no storm like rainfall and no high winds. Therefore, Im not 
convinced that storm conditions were prevalent in the lead up to the damage being noticed. 
However, as its borderline, I will continue to the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I have reviewed what Mr C has told our service and the reports provided by the various 
experts. Having done so, I dont think the damage that has been claimed for is consistent 
with what a storm typically causes, so I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I 
think this.
Rainfall rarely causes damage to a well-maintained property on its own and is more likely to 
highlight an existing fault. I have looked at some of the evidence put forward for the damage 
caused. Mr C said his contractor advised him that sealant had blown up off the tiled roof 
during storms and bad weather. I dont question this was said to Mr C, however, as there 
werent any heavy winds recorded in the lead up to the damage, Im not persuaded sealant 
in good condition would easily be blown away.
The surveyor who inspected the damage for AXA confirmed that the cause of the damage 
to the exterior panelling of the park home was due to wear and tear. [The surveyor] further 
confirmed that the exterior has [an] element which have previously been claimed on [Mr Cs] 
warranty and it is possible that these works have failed. 
Ive also read the comments provided by Mr Cs contractor and the defects to the valleys on 
the roof seem widespread. AXAs concluded the damage was caused by long-term 
deterioration of materials or poor workmanship. I think AXAs conclusions are fair based on 
the evidence provided.
For me to uphold the complaint, I would need to see evidence that a storm caused the 
damage that has been claimed for. Mr Cs own contractor said, the walls had become soft 
due to ongoing weather, as a single condition could not cause this. Given the experts 
observations, Im persuaded that the damage is the kind of damage which would be caused 
over a longer period. I think its more likely an existing issue led to the damage to Mr Cs 
home, rather than the storm itself. 
As Im not totally convinced storm conditions were present leading up to the claim and I dont 
think the damage claimed for is consistent with what heavy rainfall would cause, I wont be 
upholding this complaint. There isnt evidence that a one-off insured peril caused the 
damage to Mr Cs property. So, I wont need to consider the final question.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require AXA Insurance UK plc to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman