DRN-1742347
 
The complaint
Miss C complains about repairs needed to a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase 
Agreement with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF). She would like the cost of repairs 
(£1,886.27) refunded.
What happened
She says she contacted BMF on 28 May 2019 as the car was losing power. She says BMF 
asked her to provide a diagnostic to confirm what the issue was. Miss C says she obtained 
an initial diagnostic confirming some fault codes but BMF asked for a full diagnosis. Miss C 
says the dealership was three hours away; her preferred garage couldnt inspect the car, so 
she finally took it to another garage in July 2019. 
Miss C says she provided a quotation for the work needed which covered the cost of two 
new Vanos units, a replacement timing chain kit and other parts. Further information showed 
the timing chain had snapped causing a problem with the Vanos unit, that Miss C shouldnt 
drive the car as the timing chain would break causing damage to the engine. It also 
confirmed the vanos unit was a serviceable item and the fault wasnt caused by wear and 
tear.
BMF found the car had been driven for 9,460 miles from the point of sale so it considered it 
was of satisfactory quality when sold. It didnt feel that Miss C could have been able to drive 
that far if there had been a point of sale issue.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She found that the initial diagnostic and the final 
diagnostic both identified fault codes. So, on that basis she felt it was likely there was a fault 
with the car and not a wear and tear issue. She thought it likely the fault was present or 
developing at the point of sale and worsened over the time Miss C was trying to arrange a 
diagnostic. She thought BMF should have repaired the car. She recommended that BMF
- refund the actual cost of the repair Miss C paid for (£1886.27)
- refund one months payment to cover loss of use of the car whilst diagnostics and 
repairs were being carried out
- pay £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Miss C accepted this view but did ask for consideration of some compensation for the 
financial distress she had suffered.
BMF didnt accept this view. It said Miss C first complained of the loss of power issue on 28 
May 2019 but continued to use the car until it was inspected on 29 July 2019  the delay 
being due to Miss Cs work pattern and her choice of garage being too busy to look at the 
car. It said it had advised Miss C it wouldnt be liable for any drive on damage caused by 
using the car with a known fault. It noted that Miss C averaged 2,000 miles per month - 
higher than the national average. It felt the high mileage driven with faulty solenoids caused 
the problem.
It added that our investigator noted from the work history there was a problem with the drive 
train before Miss C got the car. But it felt there was no evidence that the turbo repair didnt 
rectify this issue.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view. She accepted the 
turbocharger was removed and refitted but she found this didnt resolve the issue as Miss C 
experienced the same problem early on in her agreement. So, she felt this was a failed 
repair. She noted the comments about Miss Cs use of the car but said that had Miss C 
taken the car to the supplying dealer that would have resulted in a three-hour journey to get 
there. Finally, she said she relied on the opinion o the diagnostic engineer who said the 
mileage Miss C did could have been covered with this issue being present.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that work needed to be carried out on Miss Cs car or that 
she had these repairs done at a cost to herself of £1,886.27. As I understand it Miss C has 
now voluntarily terminated her agreement with BMF. So, the main issue seems to who 
should cover the cost of the repairs. Miss C says there was an issue at the point of sale. 
BMF says that Miss C couldnt have driven around 10,000 miles if the fault had been present 
at the point of sale. And that continuing to drive the car with a known fault would cause 
further damage.
Miss C has given us the work history for the car. This notes a drive train error in December 
2018 a couple of months before Miss C got the car. And that the turbocharger was removed 
and refitted in January 2019. So clearly there was an issue with the car before Miss C got it. 
BMF says removing the turbocharger would have resolved the issue. But I have no evidence 
to say if it did or not.
From the information I have seen it seems Miss C raised the problem with the car losing 
power with BMF on 28 May 2010 some three months after she had the car.
Miss Cs agreement was for a four-year-old car with just under 77,000 miles on the clock 
when Miss C got it. Miss C might expect to have some issues with a used car  more so 
than for example with a new car. Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at 
the point of sale. And we usually say that if problems arise within six months of having a car 
its the business responsibility to show if there was a problem present or developing at the 
point of sale for which it is responsible. If there is we usually say its reasonable to allow a 
business one chance to repair any issues.
BMF didnt arrange its own inspection. It asked Miss C to get a diagnostic report which she 
did. Firstly, a verbal one which I can appreciate wasnt sufficient for BMF. Miss C then had 
the car looked at by another garage who confirmed to BMF that said two vanos units needed 
replacing due to the timing chain having stretched. It also confirmed this was not a service 
issue neither was the fault caused by wear and tear.
Our investigator spoke to the individual who looked at Miss Cs car. He confirmed that it 
would have been possible for Miss C to drive the car with the timing chain issue as the issue 
was an intermittent one that worsened over time. He also confirmed that the issue Miss C 
was likely to have been present prior to sale as the work history showed the same problem 
had been present on 2 January 2019.
It seems to me based on the work history and the diagnostic engineers comments that the 
problem with the engine loosing power was present before or at the point of sale. And the 
inspecting engineer has also confirmed that Miss C could have driven the miles she did as the fault wouldnt have been a continuing one initially. He hasnt suggested Miss Cs 
continued use of the car caused a more major problem.
So, on that basis I think it reasonable for BMF to refund the cost of the repair. I also think its 
reasonable, as our investigator recommended, for BMF to refund one months payment to 
cover the loss of use of the car whilst diagnostics and the repair were carried out. And to pay 
Miss C £150 for the distress and inconvenience.
Miss C has asked if I will consider additional payment for the financial distress she has 
suffered. She hasnt given me any specific information for me to consider other than what I 
already had. I think the redress I have given is sufficient but as Miss C hasnt had the benefit 
of the money, she paid for the repair I think its reasonable to add 8% simple interest to that 
sum.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd should: -
- refund Miss C the cost of the repair (£1886.27) with 8% simple interest added from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
- refund Miss C one months payment 
-pay Miss C £150 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman