DRN-2136043
The complaint
Mr D complains that Vanguard Investments UK Ltd sold a holding on his behalf without his 
authority and delayed the transfer of his ISA. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr D decided to transfer his ISA to another provider. The transfer was 
completed on 27 April 2020. On 16 April 2020 one of his holdings was sold.
In its final response to the complaint Vanguard said it completed the transfer within the 
timescales in its standard operating procedures and within 30 working days as the guidelines 
for ISA transfer set out. It also said that its records showed that the sell order on 16 April 
2020 was made through Mr Ds account and not by its transfers team, and that it never 
trades a clients holdings using live quote and deal.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
noted that there was some delay caused by a wrong national insurance number being 
specified and the need for a new valuation but that this wasnt the fault of Vanguard. 
She said that the transfer was processed within the timescale of 30 days that the guidelines 
set out by HMRC indicate for completion of a transfer from when Vanguard was in position to 
go ahead with the transfer.
The investigator also said that when placing a quote and deal transaction the account 
holder is given the option to accept or reject. She said as the process is managed by the 
client and there were no recorded system errors shown, she couldnt uphold his complaint 
about the sell order on 16 April 2020.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He made no comment on the investigators findings 
about delay in the transfer and provided no new evidence. But he repeated that the trade on 
his account wasnt authorised by him and that Vanguard had sold his holding without his 
authority. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has not disputed the investigators findings on his complaint about delay in transfer of 
his ISA but as he has not expressly accepted what she has said so I have taken it he hasnt 
actually agreed with her.
The investigator set out the timeline of the transfer in her opinion and I wont repeat it in its 
entirety. The first that Vanguard was made aware of a possible transfer was on 10 March 
2020 when Mr D emailed it to say he was transferring and asking for confirmation of the 
account number - which the new provider had queried  which was provided to him. 
But Vanguard didnt receive an actual transfer request  which started time for the transfer 
running - until 26 March 2020. The transfer was completed on 27 April 2020, well within the 
30 working days for transfer set out in guidelines and Vanguards standard operating 
procedures. 
I think there are some cases where a business could be still be responsible for delay even if 
the transfer is completed within the 30 working days guideline and the timescales within their 
own standard operating procedures, but I dont think that is the case here. 
There was some delay caused because the national insurance number used by the new 
provider didnt match the information Vanguard had which meant the transfer out request 
was rejected by Vanguard until this had been resolved. But it did nothing wrong in refusing 
the transfer out request until the information provided matched what it had on its own 
systems. 
There was also some delay because the value of holdings had changed between when it 
provided a valuation and the transfer request being made by the new provider. This meant a 
new request had to be made by the new provider. But Vanguard did nothing wrong in 
awaiting the further request because the valuation had changed.
In summary I have seen no persuasive evidence that Vanguard delayed the transfer of the 
ISA.
The second issue raised by Mr D, and which he has repeated in response to the 
investigators opinion, is that Vanguard sold one of his holdings without his authority. The 
sale was around the same time as the transfer of his ISA was taking place which may 
explain why Mr D thinks Vanguard was responsible for the trade.
Vanguard has said there would be no opportunity for someone within Vanguard to undertake 
this type of transaction. I take it to mean that the ordinary operation of the system wouldnt 
allow this, and I have no reason to question what it has said about that. 
The screenshots Vanguard have provided show that someone would first need to log on to 
the account with a username and password. When they got to the quote and deal page 
they then need to identify the account they want to use, which investment they want to sell 
and how much of it. A quote is then provided. This is available for acceptance for a limited 
period and the transaction can only proceed if the quote is accepted.
I think it is unlikely that someone at Vanguard wouldve unknowingly entered a trade given 
the various steps required, even if they somehow accessed Mr Ds account. It might be 
possible for someone to deliberately seek to get around the system to make such a trade, 
but I cant see why they would do so when there would be no benefit to them - and there is 
no evidence to indicate this is what happened.
Vanguard didnt find any system issue that might have caused the trade and said that the 
steps required to place a quote and deal trade based on live market pricing means there 
would be no system errors that could cause such a deal to take place. So, there is no basis 
for me finding the trade was wrongly placed due to a system error.  
In the circumstances I am satisfied on the evidence that it is more likely than not that the sell 
order on 16 April 2020 was made through Mr Ds account. If, as he says, the trade wasnt 
placed by him, then it must have been made by someone who had access to his username 
and password. Either way I dont think that Vanguard are responsible for the trade.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reason I have explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman