DRN-4102422
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy that in late 2022 Santander UK Plc misinformed her about the criteria of 
an account switching offer. She says that this led to her missing out on her receiving the 
switching incentive and stopped her changing her account to a different provider, which also 
was running an account switching incentive.
What happened
Miss J received an advert from Santander which said that it would pay £175 if a new or 
existing customer switched an eligible current account to a certain range of accounts that it 
offered.
Miss J says that she went to a branch of the bank to confirm that she would be eligible if she 
switched her existing current account to a 123 Lite Account. She says she was told that she 
would be eligible.
After some time, she was told that she was not eligible because, whilst existing customers 
were eligible for the offer, it was only if they switched a current account from a different 
provider to Santander and that changing an existing account with Santander to one of the 
qualifying range of accounts was not sufficient.
Miss J says that, had she been told this when she first queried it in branch, she would have 
changed to a different provider that was offering £200 if she switched to it. Miss J says that 
the switching incentive with the other provider had expired by the time she was told by 
Santander that she was not eligible.
Miss J raised a complaint with Santander regarding this. Santander declined Miss Js 
complaint but credited her with £10. One of investigators looked into this matter already. 
They did not think that Santander had done anything wrong in not paying the switching offer 
and they did not think that Santander had misinformed Miss J when she made her enquiries 
in branch. They believed that it was more likely that Miss J was told that existing customers 
were eligible for the switching offer in general rather than that she specifically was eligible 
given her circumstances.
Miss J did not agree and therefore her complain was referred to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance there are two main things for me to consider. Firstly, whether Miss J was 
eligible for the switching offer. And secondly, whether Miss J was misinformed by Santander.
Was Miss J eligible for the switching offer?
The terms and conditions of the switching offer say, in relation to being eligible for the 
switching offer, that: 
2. Eligibility To qualify for the Switcher Offer and the Cashback Payment the following 
eligibility criteria apply: 
2.1 You need to have instructed us to start a full switch from a personal current account not 
held with us, cahoot or Cater Allen (Old Account) to a new or existing 1I2I3, 1I2I3 Lite, 
Everyday, Select, or Private Current Account held with Santander UK plc using the Current 
Account Switch Service (CASS) on or after 23 August 2022 and before the Switcher Offer is 
withdrawn, see condition 4.3 below (Qualifying Account).
So it is clear that Miss J needed to have switched an external account from a different 
provider to Santander to qualify for the switching offer. 
Miss J has provided us with a screenshot of Santanders website dated 23 January 2023, in 
which it does say that existing customers are eligible for the switching offer. But it also says 
that an account has to be switched using CASS which is the current account switching 
service. My understanding is that this service can only be used when moving an account 
from one external provider to another. 
So I dont think that the screenshot provided is misleading, or that it states that an existing 
customer would be eligible if they changed an existing Santander account to one of the 
account mentioned in the offer.
Miss J says that she went to a branch of Santander to confirm that she would be eligible for 
the switching bonus and was incorrectly told that she was. 
Santander have no records of this discussion, which is unsurprising as banks do not record 
every interaction in branch between a consumer and a member of staff. 
So overall I need to consider what is most likely to have happened based on the information 
that we do have. My understanding is that the guidance that Santander staff have for the 
switching offer is what is listed on the website. I find it unlikely, albeit on balance, that if Miss 
J fully explained what she was intending to do ie to upgrade an existing Santander Current 
account to one of the eligible accounts, that she would have been told that she would 
receive the account switching incentive. Especially as it seems that all of the recent 
switching incentives that I can see that Santander offered, required a current account with an 
external provider to be transferred to Santander.
So overall, and having considered everything, I think that Miss J was not eligible for the 
switching incentive. And I dont think its more likely than not that Miss J was misinformed by 
Santander. It follows that I am unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman