DRN-2968780
The complaint
Ms E complained because HSBC UK Bank Plc refused to refund her for six withdrawals, 
totalling £1,283.11, which she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 28 April 2020, Ms E went to a cash machine to withdraw money.  She put her card in the 
machine. Ms E said two young men then came and stood very close to her, one either side. 
She said they tried to distract her, making comments, telling her to cancel the transaction, 
and reaching across her to press buttons on the machine. Ms E told them to move away, but 
they didnt. Ms E said a message appeared on screen saying her request couldnt be 
completed -  and the machine retained Ms Es card.
Phone records show that Ms E rang HSBC at 15:31 to ask for the card to be cancelled. The 
adviser stopped the card at 15:40 and arranged for a replacement to be sent to a local 
branch.
On 5 May, Ms E rang HSBC to dispute 6 transactions on her account, totalling £1,283.11. 
She said shed been to the cash machine on 27 April, and had phoned after 15 minutes to 
stop her card. But her statement showed a £300 cash withdrawal on 28 April at the machine 
where her card had been retained, and five other debits at a supermarket and other retailers 
which appeared on her statement dated 29 April. Ms E told HSBC shed never written down 
her PIN, lives alone, and hadnt shared her card details or PIN with anyone.  
In its final response, HSBC refused to refund the disputed transactions. It said that theyd 
been made with Ms Es card and her PIN. HSBC explained that the date when Ms E had 
phoned HSBC about the cash machine incident had been 28 April, not 27 April. And the 
transactions which appeared on the statement on 29 April had all been authorised on 28 
April  at times before Ms E rang to cancel the card at 15:31. 
HSBC also said that it had listened to the call recording and Ms E hadnt been told that any 
unrecognised activity would be refunded. And Ms E had mentioned CCTV, but even if CCTV 
showed anyone else making the transactions, it wouldnt prove Ms E hadnt allowed that 
person to undertake the transactions. 
HSBC also said  It is also highly coincidental that this same scenario occurred in December 
2019.
Ms E wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response and she contacted this service. She said she 
couldnt recall whether or not shed entered her PIN at the cash machine. Shed reported the 
card to HSBC at 15:31 on 28 April because the cash machine hadnt returned her card. Ms E 
said that HSBC should have stopped the card at that point, but the disputed transactions had 
appeared on her account dated 29 April. She asked what was the point of cancelling a card 
if HSBC continued to allow transactions.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Es complaint. She said that the transactions which 
appeared on Ms Es statement on 29 April had all taken place before Ms E phoned HSBC at 
15:31 on 28 April. And the investigator pointed out that the two young men at the cash 
machine couldnt have known Ms Es PIN, because she hadnt yet entered it, and shed said 
she hadnt written it down. The investigator said that Ms Es genuine card, and correct PIN, 
had been used.
Ms E, helped by a representative, didnt agree. She said that HSBC should be concerned 
with protecting its customers, and it should be standard practice to have cameras at cash 
machines. She wanted records of other complaints at that cash machine, and thought it was 
the job of the ombudsman fully to investigate. Ms E also said that standard good practice 
was to keep CCTV for 90 days, and HSBC hadnt protected her as a customer. Nor had 
HSBC provided evidence that it had taken preventative action to stop theft at that cash 
machine happening again when targeted by this gang in future. Ms E said HSBCs 
safeguarding services had completely failed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in April 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, HSBC) must show the transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen the evidence to show that Ms Es 
genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used for all six disputed transactions. 
So the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
So Ill go on to look at who carried out the disputed transactions, but Ill first explain the dates 
of the disputed transactions, because Ms E believes that some of them took place after she 
rang HSBC to stop the card.
Dates of the disputed transactions
I appreciate that some of the transactions appeared on Ms Es statement dated 29 April. But 
Ive seen the computer records of the transactions which show that they were all authorised 
on 28 April, not 29 April. The six disputed transactions happened between 14:51 and 15:13.  
There were then two cash withdrawals which were rejected because they exceeded Ms Es 
daily limit. Those attempts took place at 15:22 and 15:23. Ms Es phone call asking for the 
card to be stopped took place at 15:31. 
I realise that Ms E might find it confusing that the transactions appear on her statement later 
than they actually took place. But she can see that this happened with some of her other 
transactions too  for example an undisputed £8 payment to a news shop took place on 27 
April, but appears on her statement dated 28 April.
So I accept that all the disputed transactions took place before Ms E rang at 15:31 on 28 
April to ask HSBC to block her account. Who carried out the disputed transactions?
All the disputed transactions were carried out using Ms Es genuine card  - which she said 
had previously been retained by the cash machine - and her correct PIN. 
Card technology is very sophisticated. There have never been any instances where the chip 
embedded in a card has been duplicated. And the computer records of transactions can pick 
up whether or not this genuine chip has been used. Here, as Ive explained above, Ms Es 
genuine card was used.
PINs are secure too, provided the user keeps them private. There are some 10,000 possible 
combinations of a four-digit PIN number. So its not likely that any fraudster could guess a 
correct PIN. And here, the computer records show that the correct PIN was entered for all of 
the disputed transactions  first time, without any failed attempts.
Ms E told HSBC that the machine kept her card, and that she kept her PIN secure, and 
hadnt written this down. So its not possible to see how any fraudster could have carried out 
these transactions using Ms Es genuine card and correct PIN  which the computer records 
show were used for all six disputed transactions.
Ms E has argued that CCTV should have been available, and that as it wasnt, HSBC 
couldnt have investigated properly or protected Ms E as a customer. But CCTV often isnt 
available, and its rarely kept for 90 days as she claims. There is also no obligation for banks 
to provide it. Even if available, it wouldnt show whether or not Ms E had provided her card 
and PIN to whoever was using the machine, in which case shed still be liable. And the 
machine at which the first disputed transaction took place wasnt at an HSBC location but at 
a supermarket. 
Also, none of the other five disputed transactions took place at a cash machine, but at 
various retail outlets, where Ms E couldnt reasonably expect HSBC to have provided CCTV 
cameras to monitor any transactions someone might make there with her card.
Finally, Ms E has said that its the job of this service fully to investigate, and to provide 
records of other complaints about the cash machine at which the first disputed transaction 
took place. This isnt correct. Our role is to consider the available evidence, and to decide 
whats more likely than not to have happened, taking into account all the circumstances of 
the case. 
Nor would I expect HSBC to investigate the past history of a cash machine, especially one 
which it didnt even operate. Thats not relevant or necessary to the issue of who carried out 
the disputed transactions. The most definitive evidence is from the chip security measures 
inbuilt into the card, and the PIN. 
Ive carefully considered the technical evidence about Ms Es card and the transactions. 
Having done so, I consider its more likely than not that Ms E carried out the disputed 
transactions herself, or she gave her card and security details to someone else to carry them 
out  in which case, she is still liable for them. So I do not uphold her complaint and I dont 
require HSBC to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman