DRN-2215196
The complaint
Mrs and Mr J complain they were pressured into taking out a decreasing term life assurance 
policy, sold to them in 1994 by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Mrs and Mr J took out a decreasing term Homecover life assurance plan in October 1993, 
after being recommended the policy by an advisor in a Lloyds branch. The policy term was 
15-years, commencing in January 1994 and was to protect the outstanding balance on     
Mrs and Mr Js mortgage, taken out five years earlier in 1988.
In June 2019, Mr J complained to Lloyds. He explained when he and Mrs J had originally 
taken out the mortgage, Lloyds considered the death in service protection he received from 
his employer to be acceptable cover. However, in 1993, despite still receiving the same 
employer benefit, Mr Js said they were pressured by the advisor they saw who insisted they 
took out the Homecover policy.
Lloyds said they were satisfied their advisor had given appropriate advice for Mrs and Mr Js 
circumstances and that it was reasonable for the policy to have been recommended. They 
apologised Mrs and Mr J felt pressured into starting the policy, but the case handler said 
they were unable to comment further due to not being present at the time of the sale. The 
case handler also said thered been a ten-week gap between the policy being recommended 
and cover starting, during which Mrs and Mr J had time to review the policy documents and 
consider their need for it.
Mr J contacted Lloyds again to let them know their response contained some inaccuracies. 
He also reiterated he already held life assurance at the time which provided cover far in 
excess of their outstanding mortgage and, therefore, did not require any further cover. Mr J 
also asked to be provided copies of documents Lloyds had referred to in their response.
Mrs and Mr J didnt initially hear back from Lloyds, so Mr J chased them for a response three 
times. After the third occasion he also referred his complaint to our service.
Lloyds did then provide a further response. In it they acknowledged itd taken them too long 
to reply and by way of an apology Lloyds paid Mrs and Mr J £150. 
Lloyds also acknowledged the death in service benefit Mr J received but said employment 
circumstances can change, so they remained of the opinion it was reasonable for their 
advisor to have recommended the policy. Lloyds explained due to the time that had passed 
since the policy started, there was very limited documentation available, however they 
provided Mrs and Mr J a copy of the documentation they did have.
Mrs and Mr J remained unhappy so one of our investigators looked into things. Mr J said 
when he was offered the policy, he explained his position to the advisor in branch but was 
told Lloyds would prefer he took out life assurance with them. He said after he hesitated, the 
advisor indicated Lloyds might be less flexible towards them in the future if a policy wasnt 
taken out.
Mrs and Mr J also said they felt had they needed cover it wouldve been recommended 
during their original mortgage application in 1988, reiterating they felt forced to take the 
policy out.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was difficult for him to say for certain 
that Lloyds forced Mrs and Mr J to take out the policy in question but as it was taken out 
sometime after their mortgage application in 1988, he thought they shouldve reasonably 
been aware it was optional and not something they had to take out.  
As the policy sold in 1993 was done so on an advised basis, our investigator said hed have 
expected Lloyds to have made a suitable recommendation to Mrs and Mr J, which he 
thought they had done. He said whilst Mr J received life assurance from his employer, the 
benefits that employer offered could change, as could Mr Js employer, so he didnt think the 
advice to obtain cover outside of his employment was unsuitable.
Mr J responded to our investigator providing evidence of the death in service benefit he 
wouldve received from his employer. He also confirmed Mrs J received no benefits from her 
employer at the time. Due to the evidence hed provided, Mr J asked our investigator to give 
some extra consideration to the cover he already had in place.
Our investigator considered the evidence Mr J had provided but his opinion didnt change. 
He said whilst its clear now Mr J did stay with his employer, that wasnt to be known when 
the policy was taken out in 1993. Furthermore, as Mrs J had no cover other suitable cover in 
place at the time, he remained satisfied it was reasonable for Lloyds to have recommended 
the policy.
Mrs and Mr J disagreed with our investigators opinion, reiterating theyd been forced into 
taking the policy out. They also strongly felt Lloyds were very happy to accept Mr Js 
employer cover in 1988, so questioned why it wasnt enough in 1993.
Our investigator said he couldnt comment on why Lloyds hadnt recommended a policy in 
1988, but as the complaint was about the policy sold in 1993, considering Mrs and Mr Js 
circumstances at the time, he remained satisfied it was reasonable for Lloyds to have 
recommended the policy.  
As Mrs and Mr J remained unhappy the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mrs and Mr J, Im not 
upholding their complaint and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
But first, its important to note that where there's a dispute about what happened, I've based 
my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Mrs and Mr J took out the policy with Lloyds in 1993. Understandably theres a limited 
amount of paperwork given how long ago the sale was, and the documentation Lloyds have 
been able to provide isnt of the highest quality. But they have been able to provide a copy of 
the Homecover policy schedule which Im satisfied Mrs and Mr J wouldve received when 
applying for the policy in October 1993. The policy schedule confirms the cover was due to 
commence some months later, in January 1994.
Mrs and Mr J say they were pressured into taking out the policy. And whilst the policy was 
taken out five years after they took out their mortgage, they say they were told the bank 
would look at them less favourably should they not take out the cover in 1993.
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said during their meeting in branch with the 
advisor, but as Ive said, there were over two months between Mrs and Mr J applying for the 
policy and the cover commencing. So, Im satisfied Mrs and Mr J had sufficient time to reflect 
and change their minds if they were unhappy about the recommendation the advisor had made. But I still need to be satisfied the policy recommended was suitable for their needs, so 
Ive considered this point.
Mrs and Mr J feel strongly they didnt need the policy recommended as Mr J received a 
death in service benefit of four times his salary from his employer. But its generally 
accepted that its best not to rely on free employer benefits such as death in service to 
cover large lending such as a mortgage. Theres no guarantee the employer will continue to 
offer it as a benefit and a change of employment some years down the line might lead to a 
loss of the cover at which point, it might be much more expensive to replace.
I understand in hindsight its clear Mr Js employer didnt change and he retained the benefits 
past the redemption of their mortgage, but that simply couldnt have been known for certain 
by any party at the time in 1993. In addition, Mrs J held no cover in 1993 and the policy 
recommended ensured their mortgage was paid off in full should the worst had have 
happened to either Mrs or Mr J. 
Taking everything into consideration and looking at Mrs and Mr Js circumstances at the 
time, Im satisfied the advice they were given was reasonable and it follows that I think the 
recommendation was suitable for their needs.
Mrs and Mr J have said Lloyds were very happy to offer them a mortgage in 1988 based on 
the cover Mr J received from his employer alone despite not knowing if his circumstances 
would change. I understand they feel strongly Lloyds have changed their mind and they 
dont feel Lloyds should be able to have it both ways. 
Its important for me to say Im looking at what Lloyds did in 1993. Thats the complaint     
Mrs and Mr J raised with Lloyds and which theyve brought to our service. Its not for me to 
say what Lloyds should or shouldnt have done in 1988. Should Mrs and Mr J feel they 
shouldve been recommended a policy in 1988 as well, they would need to raise this with 
Lloyds directly. 
But for the reasons Ive set out above, that doesnt mean I dont remain satisfied it was 
suitable for Lloyds to recommend the cover they did in 1993 and I dont think they need to do 
anything in relation to this.
Lloyds have acknowledged they failed to respond to Mr J after he responded to their initial 
investigation. By way of apology for the delays and the inconvenience to Mrs and Mr J 
having had to chase them, Lloyds paid them £150. And I think thats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman