DRN-2522014
The complaint
 Mr N complains that a  car he acquired through a Hire Purchase agreement with Black 
Horse Limited (Black Horse) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to reject the car or for it to 
be replaced . And would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
What happened
 Mr N says he took out the Hire Purchase Agreement on 25 March 2019 for an 18-month-old 
car with just over 19,000 miles on the clock. He says he found there were several faults with 
the car shortly after he collected it. These comprised issues with the fog lights, tyres, 
steering, clutch, brakes, paintwork on a rear door and a rattle . He says the dealership 
looked at the car, but he didnt think any repairs were carried out it just advised him the car 
was operating normally.
Mr N says he took the car to an alternative dealership who advised him that the car had 
been in an accident with poor repairs carried out.
He says he didnt agree with the independent report that Black Horse arranged ,so he 
arranged his own report .
Black Horse partly upheld Mr Ns complaint as it found a rattle noise had been identified . It 
offered to repair this and to pay £50 compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  He found there was a fault with the car as the 
independent report concluded there was a rattling noise from the back doors. Some light 
cosmetic damage was identified  to the left-hand side of the rear bumper. Although this was 
also identified in the report Mr N arranged himself it seems this happened when Mr N was 
reversing the car in a car park. Our investigator felt this was fair since the sale photos didnt 
evidence any damage to the bumper and the independent report concluded that, had this 
been present at the point of sale , it would have been visible.
Our investigator felt that Black Horses response to repair the rattle noise and to pay £50 
compensation was fair.
Black Horse accepted this view, but Mr N didnt. He said that he had given evidence to show 
the car had been in an accident. He said he was still experiencing problems with the 
steering, clutch and gear box and felt the focus had been on light cosmetic damage not 
these more serious issues. He disagreed that any cosmetic damage would have been 
evident at the time of purchase. He said he was never asked to check over the car before he 
took it . And denied he had said he had damaged the car himself when reversing in a car 
park.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. He found there was no 
clear evidence of a point of sale problem and the only issues identified was a rattle from the 
boot that he didnt feel justified allowing the car to be rejected.
Mr N didnt accept this further view and asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N feels strongly about this and I do appreciate that .So I realise he is going to be 
disappointed as Ive reached the same conclusion as out investigator
I am conscious that Mr N bought a used car with just over 19,000 miles on the clock. As 
such he might reasonably expect more wear, tear and repair issues than for example with a 
new car. Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. 
There is no dispute that there is some light cosmetic damage to the left side of the rear 
bumper. And that the left corner of the rear bumper has been slightly damaged. That is 
confirmed in the independent report that Black Horse arranged. And in the two reports Mr N 
supplied.
Black Horse has given us information from the dealership which says this occurred when Mr 
N had an accident whilst reversing the car. Although  Mr N denies this photos of the car from 
the original sales material which dont show any such damage. 
But even if I accept Mr N didnt have an accident in the car, I am inclined to agree with the 
independent inspection report which says the cosmetic damage would have been visible at 
the point of sale. Mr N says he didnt have time to fully inspect the car when he collected it 
and wasnt asked to do so. I dont think its unreasonable to expect consumers to inspect 
goods before purchase. If , as Mr N believes, the damage was present at the point of sale 
,had he inspected the car he could have raised the issue then but didnt. 
So, without any conclusive evidence that the cosmetic damage was present at the point of 
sale I dont think I can reasonably say Black Horse is responsible for this.
Mr N says he feel the cosmetic damage has become the focus on his complaint when he is 
more concerned about problems with the clutch, steering and  gear box. I can understand 
why he feels  that .
I have looked carefully at the two reports Mr N has supplied and the independent report that 
Black Horse commissioned.
The independent report found no issues with the clutch, brakes or gear box. Neither did  the 
two reports that Mr N arranged mention any issues with these components. For me to say 
Mr N has grounds to either reject or have his car replaced I would need evidence of a point 
of sale issue. But none of these reports give me that evidence.
The independent report did note a rattle sound coming from the boot. Black Horse has 
offered to have this resolved and to pay £50 compensation. I think this is reasonable. I agree 
with our investigator that it would be disproportionate to allow Mr N to reject the car, or to 
have it replaced , for such a relatively minor issue as the report noted this wasnt a serious or 
operational issue and may just be a loose panel.
  My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Black Horse Limited should :-Pay Mr N the £50 compensation it offered, if it has not already done so
Resolve the rattle issue as identified in the independent report, if it has not already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman