DRN-1529844
 
The complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2005. The policy was added to 
Mr Ss credit card account when he applied for the card during a meeting in a Halifax branch.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr S mainly complains that PPI wasnt something he needed and says he took it out only 
because he was advised to by Halifax. He told us that he had felt under pressure to take out 
the policy in order to obtain the credit card he was applying for. 
Mr S has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr S is now sure about what hes told us. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect him to recall in detail what was discussed at the time. This means that 
what he says about the way he was sold PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold his complaint. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is 
most likely.
I dont know what was discussed when Mr S took out his credit card. But on the application 
form Mr S completed to get this card theres a section at the end (after he signed for the 
card) where customers had to tick and sign separately in order to take out the PPI. 
So I think he wouldve understood that it was up to him to say if having PPI was something 
he wanted.
If Mr S hadnt wanted to have PPI with his credit card, he couldve left the PPI box on his 
card application blank. The form Mr S signed is ticked to show he wanted to take out PPI 
alongside his credit card and hes signed in the box to have it.
On balance, I think that Halifax made Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and that he 
chose to take it. Halifax and Mr S told us it recommended the PPI to him. So, this means that Halifax had to 
check the cover it advised Mr S to have was suitable for him. 
Mr S was eligible for the PPI when he took it out.
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr S chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. 
Mr S told us he was entitled to sick pay for up to three months. But the policy wouldve paid 
more than his minimum credit card repayments in addition to this sick pay, and for longer - 
up to 12 months per claim if he couldnt work, giving Mr S a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And it wouldve paid out if Mr S lost his job unexpectedly. 
Ive taken into account that Mr S mightve had some savings at the time. Hes mentioned that 
his work allowed him to make substantial savings and that he used these to cover the costs 
of taking time off work to travel and some money went towards a deposit on a house. 
So I dont know if he wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make a claim. 
And having PPI meant Mr S could keep his savings to spend on other things or to provide 
him with financial security. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Taking everything into account, I think that PPI was suitable for Mr S. 
Mr S wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations, so I don't think that 
knowing more about what the policy didn't cover wouldve put him off taking it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr S when he signed up for the policy. But, 
from what Ive seen, he chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to 
have wanted it. The policy was reasonably priced and paying for it doesn't seem to have 
been a problem for Mr S. He couldve cancelled the policy at any time without incurring any 
extra cost if he decided he didnt want to pay for PPI. 
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr S wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr S back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
And I understand Halifax has already paid Mr S.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman