DRN-3195868
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has declined his 
claim for the loss of his mobile phone on the ground that he hasnt provided proof of 
ownership.
References to Assurant in this decision include their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr O has a bank account that offers insurance for mobile phones, so he took out a policy to 
cover his mobile phone. Assurant is the insurer under the policy.
Mr O lost his phone on 18 June 2021 so he made a claim on his policy. His claim was 
declined by Assurant. He was referred to a policy terms which states:
Proof of ownership
We will need to validate any claims by checking that the mobile phone belongs to you, to 
do this you will need to provide some form of proof of ownership that confirms the make, 
model, IMEI number and memory size where applicable of your mobile phone. This could 
be documentation from your network provider such as the original documents for your 
contract and/or a document showing that the mobile phone is being used by you on their 
network or a purchase receipt. If you don't have any proof of ownership we may decline 
your claim.
Mr O obtained a letter from his network provider dated 2 July 2021 to serve as proof of 
ownership. But this letter was addressed to Mr Os partner as the contract was in her name. 
At the top it quoted her phone number (ending in 372), and below it referred to the phone 
reported as lost and giving its make, model, colour and IMEI number (ending in 7213) and 
the phone number (ending 882).  It stated that this phone had been used from 12 February 
2021.
Assurant has said that as proof of usage was in his partners name and not his, it couldnt 
link Mr O to the phone at the time it was lost.
Mr O then asked the network provider to transfer the contract into his name as hed been led 
to believe by Assurants claims handler that this was all that would be required to prove his 
ownership of the phone. Mr Os network provided a letter addressed to Mr O on 6 July 2021  
which confirmed to him that his contract for a phone with IMEI number ending 7213 started 
on 8 February 2021.
Assurant still declined Mr Os claim on the ground that at the time of the loss the phone was 
in the name of his partner. It has accepted that what Mr O had been told by its claims 
handler was incorrect, and offered Mr O £50 compensation for this incorrect information.
Unhappy that his claim had been declined, Mr O brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigators view was that she didnt think Assurant had acted fairly. She considered that 
Mr O had provided a letter from the network provider that appeared to her to meet the 
criteria for proof of ownership required by Mr Os policy, and the phone was in Mr Os 
possession prior to the loss.
Assurant doesnt agree with our investigators view. It maintains that the policy only covers 
phones owned by Mr O and not phones owned by a policy holders partner, spouse or family 
members. It says the letter Mr O had provided from his network provider doesnt show that 
Mr O owned the phone at the time of its loss. Nor was there any evidence that Mr O was 
using the phone at the time of the incident.
As Assurant doesnt agree with our investigators view, Mr Os complaint has been referred 
to me to make a final decision from this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point for consideration of this complaint is Mr Os policy.
Mr Os policy says it needs to validate claims by checking that the phone belongs to you. 
To do this, it needs some form of proof of ownership that confirms the make, model, IMEI 
number and memory size where applicable of your mobile phone.  
The policy wording goes on to say This could be documentation from your network provider 
such as the original documents for your contract and/or a document showing that the mobile 
phone is being used by you on their network or a purchase receipt (my emphasis 
underlined).
I think its clear from the letters of 2 and 6 July 2021 from the network provider that the 
phone with IMEI number ending 7213  the phone that was lost - had been used on the 
same network as Mr Os partners phone since February 2021. This was only four days after 
Mr O had been provided with a quote by the network provider for this make, model and 
colour of phone.
That leaves the question of whether the phone belonged to Mr Os partner, or to Mr O.
As a matter of practicality, it isnt unusual for a number of phones to be on the same contract 
and used by different family members. I dont consider that the person who has taken out the 
contract covering a number of phones, or who pays for the contract, is for all purposes the 
owner of every phone that might be covered by that contract or that all the phones belong 
to them. Mr Os partner had her own phone on the contract. I think Mr O could reasonably 
have assumed that the phone with IMEI 7213 belonged to him even though his partner paid 
the network charge. Mr O had selected the phone. Hed paid premiums to Assurant for an 
insurance policy to cover it against various risks. I dont believe Mr O wouldve paid for an 
insurance policy for a phone he wasnt using or didnt believe was his. It was in his 
possession at the time of loss at an airport. 
I therefore consider that although the phone with IMEI number ending 7213 was under a 
contract with Mr Os partner at the time of the loss, the information hes provided to Assurant 
is sufficient to confirm that this phone belonged to him at the time of its loss and that he 
had an insurable interest in it.
My conclusion is that Assurant has not assessed his claim fairly and should consider his 
claim in accordance with the other terms and conditions of his policy. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Os complaint. 
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to assess Mr Os claim subject to the other 
terms and conditions of his policy. It should also pay him the £50 compensation it offered 
him if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman