DRN-4057639
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as R complains that Soldo Financial Services Limited (Soldo) declined 
its claim for a refund of card transactions it says it didnt authorise.
R is represented by one of its directors, Mr M.
What happened
R has an account with Soldo that lets it assign pre-paid cards to each of its members. Some 
of its members, including the member in question in this case, are vulnerable and not able to 
manage their own finances. Soldos system allows R to set various restrictions on each card, 
such as an automatic block on the account after a single transaction is made.
Between around 10pm on 22 January 2021 and 1:30am on 23 January 2021, 24 payments 
of £99.99 (totalling £2,399.76) left Rs account. R says it didnt authorise those transactions 
and that they were made by the member, who had obtained the card details without Rs 
permission. R had recently added spyware to the members phone, which meant it had 
added the card details to the phone. And it neglected to remove the card details after it had 
done so.
When Mr M contacted Soldo to ask for a refund of the payments, Soldo declined the request. 
So, Mr M brought Rs complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She 
did think R had authorised the payment, but she thought 24 consecutive payments of £99.99 
in such a short space of time was unusual on its own and in the context of the historical 
spending on this account.
She felt Soldo should have noticed something was wrong after the third payment of £99.99 
in quick succession and that the remaining payments would have been stopped, had Soldo 
acted appropriately.
Soldo didnt agree. Among other representations, it said R had negligently left card details 
on the members phone, hadnt applied any of the blocking measures available to it and that 
Soldo had no reason to suspect there was anything wrong with the payments made. It asked 
for an Ombudsman to review matters afresh.
On 16 August 2022, I issued my provisional findings, which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Important to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSR 2017) which apply to 
transactions like the ones R disputes.
Among other things regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 says:
67. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer 
for the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent to  (a) the execution of 
the payment transaction; or
(b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that payment transaction 
forms part.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, 
financial institutions will be liable for unauthorised payments.
Mr M has explained that Rs employees did not make the transactions and did not know that 
the transactions were being made. He has explained the member in question isnt capable of 
managing his own finances and doesnt have control of the funds allocated to him. Instead, 
Rs staff make payments for the member, so he doesnt have direct access to the account 
funds. That is supported by the account history, which shows previous payments were 
almost always one-off payments. And far more occasional than the 24 consecutive 
payments in dispute.
However, that doesnt automatically mean that those transactions are unauthorised and that 
they should be refunded to R. Its possible for R to give someone else authority to make 
transactions on its behalf  and it follows that R would then be responsible for them. This is 
the case even if this person carried out more transactions than R agreed to or expected and 
is whats known as apparent authority.
If the R has allowed a third party to make use of their payment instrument so that, to Soldo, it 
looks like the payment transaction has been authorised by R, then the payment can be 
considered authorised for the purposes of the PSR 2017.
However, apparent authority cant be given negligently. And Im not persuaded R 
deliberately gave the member its card details. R had to put its card details onto the 
members phone for legitimate purposes, and forgot to remove the details after. Ive not seen 
any evidence to persuade me that R intended to give the member access to its card details, 
and the payments in question do not fit with the kind of transactions I would expect R to 
authorise on this account in light of the nature of the purchases, values and 
frequency/timings of the transactions.
So, its for the reasons Ive set out above that I dont agree with our investigator on the point 
of authorisation and why I consider R to have authorised the transactions in dispute. Which, 
on the face of it, means Soldo is liable for those transactions.
However, our service wouldnt tell Soldo to refund authorised transactions if we considered 
R had failed with intent or gross negligence to keep its security details safe. Ive already set 
out above why I dont think R acted intentionally here and the same rationale applies to 
failing to keep its security details safe with intent. But gross negligence does warrant further 
examination.
And Soldo has referred to a number of options R had to protect its account, that it did not 
use. Of particular relevance to this case, Soldo says that online payments can be turned on 
or off, that the card can be locked after each transaction, and that daily transaction limits can 
be set. R says that it regularly used the blocking features available to it, but Soldo has 
provided a screenshot from its system that says no blocks were applied to the card between 
30 September 2020 and the date of the disputed transactions. So, the evidence suggests no 
blocks were applied.
Further, I accept that it was careless of Rs employee to leave card details on the members phone. That presented a risk that the card would be used without Rs authorisation, which is 
ultimately what happened.
But mere carelessness isnt enough to meet the standard required for gross negligence in 
these cases. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has issued the Payment Services and 
Electronic Money  Our Approach to help businesses to navigate the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017) and the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 (EMRs) 
(together with our relevant rules and guidance), and to understand our general approach in 
this area.
And at paragraph 8.222, the FCA explains we interpret gross negligence to be a higher 
than the standard negligence under common law. The customer needs to have shown a very 
significant degree of carelessness. So gross negligence goes far beyond a failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care.
And with that being the case, I cant reasonably say R acted with gross negligence. If, as 
appears to be the case here, R didnt apply the blocks available, that did present a risk to the 
card. But accidentally leaving card details on a mobile phone was a simple mistake to make, 
and I cant reasonably say that doing so amounted to a serious disregard of or indifference 
to an obvious risk.
It follows then that I dont consider R to have authorised the payments it disputes, or to have 
failed with intent or gross negligence to keep its security details safe. And so, in accordance 
with the PSR 2017, Soldo is liable to refund R.
Our investigator also found that the payments on the account were unusual, and that Soldo 
should have acted to stop further payments after the third consecutive transaction of £99.99. 
While what Ive said above means Soldo is liable to refund all of the transactions in dispute, 
its worth noting that, even if I didnt consider the transactions to be unauthorised, or if I did 
find R had failed with intent or gross negligence to keep its security details safe, I agree that 
Soldo didnt do enough to stop the transactions.
In reaching this conclusion, Ive taken into account, the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. And Ive thought carefully about the payments in dispute here. In doing so Ive 
reviewed the account statements Soldo has provided to see how R operates this particular 
account.
In the preceding fifteen months, the total expenditure on the account was £1,056.68. 
£830.72 of that was made in two transactions to a different merchant to the one in question.
There had only ever been two payments on any single day. And indeed, any account activity 
was sporadic, with no significant bursts of spending on multiple transactions. So, 24 
transactions of £99.99 to the same merchant, all in the space of three-and-a-half hours and 
late at night was not usual account activity. In fact, half of the payments were made over a 
38 minute period between 22:01 and 22:39, with the other half being made over a 14 minute 
period between 01:12 and 01:26.
I recognise Soldo allows customers to apply blocks that would prevent unauthorised use, but 
in the circumstances of this particular case, Im not persuaded that that diminished Soldos 
need to check transactions. And I dont think Soldos system applied satisfactory monitoring 
to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were 
at risk of fraud (among other things).
Because the payments were to a merchant the account had paid before, I wouldnt expect Soldo to have blocked all payments immediately. But after 3 payments of the same amount 
in the space of a few minutes, Im satisfied it should have been clear to Soldo that all was 
not well. And I consider Soldo should have intervened and asked R what was going on. And 
Im satisfied that, had it done so, the payments wouldve stopped.
Overall then, Im persuaded Soldo ought fairly and reasonably to have done more in terms of 
intervening and questioning R about the nature and purpose of the payments in question. 
And Im persuaded that if Soldo had intervened it would have made a difference. Although 
as I say above, this is a secondary issue because, for the reasons Ive set out, I consider 
Soldo is liable for all of the transactions, because they were unauthorised
I invited both parties to make any further submissions or provide any further evidence they 
wished me to consider. Mr M didnt have anything further to add, but R made a number of 
representations it wished me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the representations Soldo made in response to my provisional findings. 
But Im sorry to say that they dont change my findings. I understand Soldo feels strongly 
about this complaint, and I want to reassure it that I have made this decision on the balance 
of probabilities, and on the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
I understand the nature of the services Soldo provides and the nature of Rs business. And I 
accept R had various obligations with which it had to comply, and that it had a number of 
options available to it that could have prevented the transactions from happening. In 
reaching my decision, Ive taken the law and both parties responsibilities into account, but 
my overall decision is based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
And ultimately, Im not persuaded that R was grossly negligent. I accept there were steps it 
could have taken by adding restrictions to the card, and that the transactions were made 
possible by Rs error i.e. that it failed to remove the card details from the members device. 
However, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that those actions meet the 
high bar that is required to make a finding of gross negligence. 
Soldo did say that their records show the card details were uploaded to the members device 
5 weeks before the disputed transactions started. And that theres no evidence to show they 
were left in place carelessly. But because of what Mr M has told our service about the 
member in question being vulnerable and not able to manage their own finances, and 
because the transactions were reported by R when they were discovered, I accept that the 
card details were left in place by mistake and not intentionally. So, the timings dont affect 
my outcome. And again, while I accept that was careless, I dont agree it amounted to gross 
negligence.
Soldo also argued that the pattern of transactions was not unusual. It said the card in 
question was active for a little over 3 months and didnt agree there was a fifteen-month 
history to compare the transactions against. The statement provided by Soldo does indeed 
show that the first transaction on the account was October 2020, not October 2019. 
However, I remain satisfied that the pattern of transactions in dispute was unusual for the 
reasons Ive set out above. There were 24 transactions of the exact same amount (£99.99), all very close together and all in the final few hours of the day/early hours of the following 
morning. Which was not in line with usual account activity and I dont find that the lack of a 
long account history changes matters. Indeed, transactions of this nature on a new account 
can still be cause for concern such that I would expect a financial business to take action.
Having considered everything both parties have said, my provisional findings havent 
changed. So my final decision is that Soldo must reimburse the transactions and pay interest 
on the balance due to R.
My final decision
Soldo Financial Services Limited must pay R:
1. £2,399.76, being the value of the unauthorised transactions; and
2. Simple interest at the rate of 8% on the above amount, from 22 January 2021 up to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman