DRN-1573824
The complaint
Ms T complains John Lewis Financial Services Limited have failed to provide her with 
information she requested relating to her credit card account.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Ms Ts credit card account was in arrears and John Lewis was taking steps to recover the 
debt from Ms T. Around June 2018 made a subject access request for information relating to 
her account. Ms T didnt receive the information, so in November 2018 she raised a 
complaint. John Lewis said they were unable to locate Ms Ts original request. They 
provided a final response, raised a new subject access request and offered Ms T a £50 
voucher as a gesture of goodwill.
But Ms T still hadnt received the information, so in April 2019 she raised another complaint.
John Lewis issued a final response in May 2019. They apologised for the delays in providing 
the subject access request to Ms T and offered her a voucher of £20. 
Ms T was unhappy with her John Lewis response, so she brought her complaint to our 
service. She has told us about the impact the ongoing issue with John Lewis to try to resolve 
the situation and obtain the information she has requested has had on her. 
Since issuing their final response John Lewis have agreed to write off the balance on 
Ms Ts account, around £2,286, as gesture of goodwill in acknowledgment of Ms Ts 
circumstances.
Our investigator didnt recommend we uphold Ms Ts complaint. He said by writing off the 
balance of Ms Ts account, John Lewis reasonably addressed the distress and 
inconvenience shed suffered from not receiving the information shed requested. 
Ms T didnt agree with our investigator. She said there was no evidence the balance had 
been written off and John Lewis had caused the balance to be high in the first place. She 
said this shouldnt be in replacement of compensation for how John Lewis have treated her. 
The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T has raised a number of different complaint points about John Lewis including how 
theyve dealt with her account and the debt that has accrued. Ive provided my findings for 
these other points, and why we cant consider them, in other decisions. This decision 
focuses only on Ms Ts complaint about not receiving the information she requested from 
John Lewis and if her credit card balance has now been written off. 
John Lewis issued a final response letter for Ms Ts initial complaint, about failing to receive 
the information she requested, in December 2018. That complaint wasnt brought to us 
within six months of John Lewis issuing their final response, so we cant consider it. 
My decision will be focussed on events following that response, up until the second 
response relating to the subject access request in May 2019.
I want to reassure Ms T Ive considered everything shes said  such as what shes said 
about her circumstances and her health. But Im going to focus my decision on what I see as 
the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the 
informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms T requested the information due to an ongoing dispute with John Lewis regarding her 
account. Considering the length of time between Ms Ts original request and her making the 
second complaint to John Lewis about failing to receive it, I can see why the situation has 
been stressful for her  particularly due to what shes told our service about her ill health. 
Without the information shes not been able to make any progress with the other issues 
shes had with John Lewis or to be able to move on. 
John Lewis accept they failed to provide Ms T with the subject access request. When a 
business has done something wrong, we expect them to put things right. In some 
circumstances this might mean awarding compensation, in this case John Lewis offered 
Ms T a total of £70 to reflect the trouble and upset she has been caused by the information 
being delayed. I think this is reasonable, so I wont be awarding any further compensation. 
John Lewis has also written off Ms Ts credit card balance  which is around £2,286. 
John Lewis has provided me with internal screenshots showing the balance write off being 
approved and confirmation it was processed on their system. So, Im satisfied this has been 
done. So I dont require John Lewis to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman