DRN-3585342
The complaint
Miss G complains that the car she acquired through Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. She wants BMF to repair the car and reimburse her the money shes 
already spent on repairs.
What happened
Miss G entered a hire purchase agreement in March 2021 to acquire a used car. At the time 
of acquisition, the car was around 7 years old and had been driven nearly 70,000 miles. 
Miss G says issues with the alternator and a corroded exhaust pipe, and problems with the 
car battery mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and because of this, BMF should 
pay to reimburse her for the repairs shes already paid for. Miss G says shes paying for a 
car which is unroadworthy and the payments shes making couldve been better used 
towards car repairs.
BMF rejected this complaint. It says because more than six months elapsed before Miss G 
mentioned any problems with the car, it needed evidence from her to suggest that the issues 
shes raised were present or developing at the point of sale. And that because Miss G hadnt 
provided any evidence, it wasnt able to uphold her complaint. It did, however, offer to look 
into things further if Miss G provided an independent report.
BMF told us that despite asking Miss G for an independent diagnostic report, she hasnt 
provided one. It says the car was serviced and it also passed its MOT before Miss G 
collected the car, and it was provided with a 12-month warranty and 12 months National 
Breakdown Cover.
BMF also told us about the repairs it carried out on the car around or prior to its sale to 
Miss G. It says it:
Ordered and fitted a new car battery at a cost of £94.29 +VAT;
replaced a failed bulb and a faulty door handle - £150.18 +VAT;
replaced the windscreen because of a small crack - £183.33 +VAT;
replaced shock absorbers, mounts and front brake pads - £438.77 +VAT  when 
Miss G complained about a noise with the car;
spent nearly £1,000 making sure the car was correct and in good working order for 
Miss G.
BMF said it was prepared to investigate the battery issue Miss G had experienced, at no 
cost to her, but it said it didnt think Miss G appreciated that a car of this age will incur issues 
of a general wear and tear nature.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought it should be upheld. He said 
that the age of the car and the mileage it had been driven meant that it may have already 
suffered significant wear and tear; there was a greater risk the car would need repair or 
maintenance sooner than another vehicle that wasnt as road-worn when first supplied.
He said he thought there were a number of faults with the car, but that with the exception of 
the issue with the battery, he thought these were down to normal wear and tear. He 
explained that the new battery fitted on 11 March 2021 shouldve lasted considerably longer 
than the nine months that elapsed before Miss G had to replace it.  And he asked BMF to re-
imburse Miss G for the cost of the replacement battery.
BMF accepted the investigators opinion and said it would refund the cost of the replacement 
battery upon receipt of Miss Gs invoice confirming what shed paid for it. And it also 
reconfirmed its offer of a free diagnostic assessment in order to establish the charging issue. 
It also highlighted that the MOT on this car had expired in March 2022, and it said Miss G 
was in breach of her hire agreement and would need to get the car MOTd as soon as 
possible.
Miss G disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. She says the issue with the 
exhaust shouldve also been addressed at the point of sale, and she wouldnt have bought 
the car had she known about the corrosion at that time. She explained that she hadnt 
insured the car or carried out an MOT because shed not used the vehicle since September 
2021. Miss G says shes still paying for a car that is unroadworthy, she wants it to be fully 
repaired or to be given a full refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss G is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMF is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant 
circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods. So, 
what I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Miss G was of satisfactory 
quality or not.
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
the fault was present when the car was supplied. But, if the fault is identified after the first six 
months, then its for Miss G to prove the fault was present when she first acquired the car. 
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to what hes 
already said, and I think hes set out the position very clearly in his view.
I dont think theres any dispute that Miss G has experienced problems with the car  that 
has been well evidenced by both her testimony and the documentation shes sent us. But that doesnt mean that the issue with the corrosion is necessarily something that I think BMF 
ought to be responsible for putting right.
I say this because I dont think its unreasonable to expect these types of issues to appear 
through normal in-service wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage. Miss G hasnt 
provided any evidence or independent report that demonstrates that this problem was likely 
to be developing or was present at the point the car was supplied to her. And Ive not seen 
any evidence that suggests the exhaust has corroded prematurely for a car of its age and 
mileage. So, without any other evidence, I think its more likely than not that this is simply a 
wear and tear issue, and Im not persuaded that the issue with the exhaust makes the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Like our investigator, I have concerns about the replacement car battery that was supplied  
I simply dont think this shouldve failed in the short period of time between its supply in 
March 2021 and Miss G needing to have it replaced only a few months later. So Im going to 
direct BMF to reimburse Miss G with the costs she incurred in replacing the battery, if it 
hasnt already done so.
Putting things right
Unless its already done so, Im directing Blue Motor Finance Ltd to reimburse Miss G for the 
cost she paid for the replacement battery.
I understand Blue Motor Finance Ltd has been provided with a copy of the invoice in respect 
of the replacement battery and has agreed to reimbursing this cost. If it hasnt already paid 
this sum to Miss G, it should now do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to 
compensate Miss G as Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman