DRN-4384980
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander gave him mis-leading information about his current account. 
In particular, he says he was given incorrect information about the balance of his account.
What happened
Mr L holds a current account with Santander. In March he called Santander to check his 
latest transactions because his account had gone overdrawn. The call handler discussed   
Mr Ls available balance and current balance, but this left Mr L confused. He decided to 
transfer £200 into his current account to ensure he had enough money to cover any 
upcoming bills and transactions.
Mr L complained to Santander and said he felt confused by the information he was provided. 
Santander responded and accepted the information given by the call handler wasnt very 
clear. They offered £130 compensation.
In May, Mr L called Santanders automated service to find out his current account balance  
he was told it was £0. Worried that this was the case, Mr L called Santander. The call 
handler couldnt establish why Mr L was told his balance was £0 and confirmed to Mr L that 
there were no outstanding transactions. Mr L ended the call again confused. To ensure he 
had money in his account, he transferred £300. 
Mr L was unhappy again with the information hed been provided, so he complained. 
Santander said its systems do not show available balances for previous dates or times, so it 
wasnt able to provide Mr L with the information he asked for when on the phone. It 
explained that account balances can change throughout the day due to debits, credits, 
pending payments etc, so because of this the account balance could be different at different 
points of the day. It apologised for any confusion but didnt offer any compensation.
Unhappy with the responses he received from Santander in April and May  Mr L brought his 
complaint to this service, and it was agreed it could be considered under one complaint. One 
of our investigators investigated the matter and thought that on the whole Santander had 
given Mr L confusing information about his account. He thought they couldve been more 
helpful and couldve spent some time explaining to Mr L how the account worked. In the 
round, he thought £200 compensation for both issues was the right amount of 
compensation.
Mr L disagreed. He said that the mis-information provided by Santander couldve left him in 
debt. He thought Santander should have to pay him more compensation for this. This didnt 
change the investigators mind and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
Santander has accepted that the information it gave to Mr L on the telephone, on both 
occasions, couldve been explained better. So, I dont intend to go into detail about the 
misinformation given. Rather, Ive focused this decision on whether the compensation 
offered is the right amount.
I understand Mr L feels strongly about the impact the misinformation couldve had on him. 
He says he couldve ended up in debt and this wouldve caused him a lot of stress and 
worry. He has also said he shouldnt have to be the person chasing Santander for correct 
information, it should be able to provide it to him when he asks.
I appreciate what Mr L is saying and I agree that Santander shouldve been able to explain 
what had happened with his account and what his balance was. This wouldve allowed Mr L 
to manage his account better. But ultimately, Mr L hasnt lost out financially because of what 
happened, but I do recognise it has caused him some distress and inconvenience.
When thinking about what has happened in the round, I think the actions of Santander left 
Mr L confused and worried about his account on two different occasions. He had to make 
transfers into his account because he was worried that he mightve gone overdrawn, and he 
then had to check his balance regularly afterwards. Taking all of this into account, I think 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience is a fair award.  
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr L £200 for the mis-information it provided and for the worry and 
stress this caused Mr L as a result.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman