DRN-3774547
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a term assurance policy.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties. In summary Mrs C discovered that she had two 
policies when purchasing a property in 2021. Her evidence is that she only called in 2008 to 
notify a name change as she had got married. She feels Barclays should refund the 
premiums she has paid for the 2008 policy. I recognise that Mrs C will be disappointed by 
my decision, but I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C had a term assurance policy which commenced in 2007 with a monthly 
premium of £9.27. I have seen an application form for a policy commencing in 2008 
with a monthly premium of £8.79. The application form stated that Mrs C had asked 
for mortgage protection. The sum assured was to be £128,000 and the term 30 
years. Mrs Cs medical details were completed including doctors details, medical 
disclosures and employment information. Barclays have no record of its involvement 
with the sale, which is not surprising given the passage of time. It obtained the 
information it has from the insurer.  
I note that Mrs C called the insurer on 5 September 2008 to provide a start date for 
the new policy and to cancel the original policy This does demonstrate that Mrs C 
was aware of the original policy and that she no longer required it. There is nothing to 
show that the 2008 policy wasnt required or was mis-sold.
I fully accept that it wasnt Mrs Cs intention to have two policies. However Barclays 
wasnt able to cancel a policy for Mrs C so the fact the original policy wasnt 
cancelled isnt the fault of Barclays. It follows that I dont find that Barclays have done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs C unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman
