DRN-3492548
The complaint
Mr J has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In June 2018 AvantCredit provided Mr J with a loan of £4,000. The loan was repayable over 
36 months and the monthly repayments were £186.07. Mr J said the purpose of the loan 
was debt consolidation.
Mr J complained that AvantCredit hadnt properly checked he could afford the loan. Our 
adjudicator upheld Mr Js complaint. He thought AvantCredit was wrong to have offered the 
loan to Mr J. 
As AvantCredit didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr J would have been able to do so?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Js ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focussed  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr J undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr J. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Before granting this loan, AvantCredit verified Mr Js income using a standard industry tool. It 
obtained information about his expenses and found his average net monthly income was 
around £1,916. AvantCredit also carried out a credit search. In the early stages of a lending 
relationship these checks might be considered proportionate but more importantly, having 
looked at the results of those checks, I dont think AvantCredit reacted appropriately to them.
The credit search showed Mr J had one historic default. He had outstanding unsecured 
loans of £4,129 and credit card debt of £2,874. The largest loan with an outstanding balance 
of £3,835 had only been taken out six months previously. I think AvantCredit should have 
been concerned about Mr Js need to take out another large loan within a relatively short 
period of time. 
Mr J was due to pay around £624 a month in total on his existing credit commitments. With 
the new loan repayment of £186.07 around 42% of his income would be spent on repaying 
his debts. That suggests to me that the loan wouldnt be sustainable for Mr J.
In response to our adjudicators view AvantCredit has argued that Mr J could have 
consolidated some of his lending. Its true Mr J could have used the loan to repay some of 
his loans and credit card debt. That could have reduced his credit commitments going 
forward to about £571 being about 29% of his monthly income. But AvantCredit didnt repay 
these debts out of the loan advance as it could have done. So it couldnt be sure that it was 
making his position better rather than worse. The stated purpose of debt consolidation isnt 
enough in itself to make me think that the loan was fairly provided or that it proved helpful in 
the event to Mr J.
In my opinion, AvantCredit should have been aware that Mr J might well struggle to repay 
this loan and this was borne out by the fact that he hasnt been able to maintain his loan 
repayments. Overall, I dont think AvantCredit treated Mr J fairly in approving this loan.Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded AvantCredit shouldnt 
have provided this loan, it should look to remove the interest and fees from the amounts due 
under the loan agreement. If AvantCredit has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back 
if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt, it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
AvantCredit should:
  remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mr J as payments towards the capital amount;
If Mr J has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr J; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Js complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman