DRN-3209847
The complaint
Mr F complains that an adviser from St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc gave him 
unsuitable investment advice. Hes said that the adviser was friends with his wife, from who 
he is now separated, and the advice she gave was preferential to his wifes interests and not 
to his. 
What happened
Mr F was a client of SJPs for a number of years. In 2019 he complained to SJP about the 
adviser and raised several points. In summary, he wanted an investigation carried out into 
the advisers role in:
Assignment of 50% ownership of his late parents property to his wife 
Gifting units of an overseas trust hed inherited from his parents to his wife on the 
grounds that this would be more tax efficient within that financial year
He said that the adviser had been his wifes closest friend for a number of years. And it was 
his wife whod persuaded him to move his financial affairs to the adviser. He also said the 
adviser knew that his wife controlled almost all their financial matters and that he trusted her 
and paid little attention to financial issues or documents that he was asked to sign.
He also noted that:
Almost all financially related correspondence from SJP was handled solely by his 
wife and his own contributions were limited to when he was specifically asked to 
respond on points that only he could answer. It therefore seemed that the adviser 
was relying on his wife to communicate significant financial information to him.
The assignment notably took place while he was bereaved and still mourning his 
parents which meant that he was relying on his wife even more than usual to resolve 
issues which arose from their unfortunate passing.  
The adviser appears to have played a leading role in supporting, advising, and 
assisting his wife emotionally and practically during their separation.
He asked SJP to consider if they held appropriate documentation to demonstrate that the 
adviser had:
properly advised him individually, considering her evident conflict of interest in also 
advising one of her oldest and closest friends
adequately advised him of all the potential implications of assigning such valuable 
assets to his wife, including the implications of a potential divorce
and acted at all times in his best interests and fully met the professional and ethical 
standards expected of an IFA
SJP looked into his concerns but didnt uphold the complaint. They said, in summary:
Theyd looked at the recommendations for protection plans the adviser and another 
adviser (A1) from her office had given Mr F and his wife. They said the reasons for 
the recommendation were mainly to provide support to their children in the event of 
either him or his wife passing away. And having reviewed the protection 
arrangements, they were satisfied that the plans were suitable. 
They hadnt provided any advice on transferring part ownership of his late parents 
property to his wife. They noted that the reasons for the transfer appeared to be in 
order to secure a buy-to-let mortgage on the property in order to provide funds to 
undertake work on their own main residence. While they hadnt provided advice on 
the lending, their records showed that discussions with an underwriter from another 
business had indicated that it would not have been possible in Mr Fs sole name.
The recommendation for the mortgage raised against the property was completed by 
another business and any concerns relating to the mortgage should be raised with 
that specific business. While they noted that they were involved in discussions 
around the change of title, they didnt provide any direct advice to do so.
After reviewing their records, theyd found evidence to demonstrate that following the 
death of Mr Fs parents, he inherited an existing relationship with an Independent 
Financial Adviser (B1), regarding investments hed inherited from his parents. The 
involvement of the adviser with regard to the assignment of the La Mondiale 
investments from Mr Fs father, to Mr F and his sister, was as a result of the 
instructions and assistance of a solicitor who was administering Mr Fs parents 
estate and not as a result of advice given by the adviser. 
Their investigation noted a request from his wife that consideration was being given 
to the assignment of clusters on the La Mondiale investment from Mr F (as a 
beneficiary) to her. Mr Fs personal email was copied into this communication, dated 
31 March 2016. They also noted that generic discussions about the tax implications 
of the assignment were held with an associate of the adviser at a review meeting in 
2017 which recorded that both Mr and Mrs F were present. However, the advice and 
completion of this exercise was carried out by another business, the IFAs appointed 
to the La Mondiale investment, as a result of SJPs inability to obtain the full 
information required to conduct a full assessment of these investments which would 
have assisted us in order to put forward a formal recommendation.
Regarding Mr Fs concerns with the assignment of the units to Mrs F, they held no 
record of this transaction, instead their note suggested he returned to B1 who held 
the original relationship on these investments with Mr Fs parents. They also noted 
that the B1 was still benefitting from the payment of ongoing fees.
They noted his concerns regarding the conduct of the adviser but as there wasnt any 
evidence to support the allegations, they were unable to provide any further comment 
on the matter.
Mr F didnt accept their findings and brought his complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld and Ive summarised her findings below:
Transfer of property ownership
Shed considered the paperwork from the time, to see what advice was given and why, and also to consider the involvement of Mrs F. SJP said that discussions were initially held 
regarding the property as Mr F wanted to buy out his sisters share of the property with the 
intention to rent it out and needed to raise funds in order to do this. Mr and Mrs F spoke to 
the adviser about arranging a buy-to-let mortgage and Mr F initially applied for one in his 
own name with another business. However, this was declined, partly because the lender 
required the applicant to be an established landlord. It was noted that Mrs F already had 
experience as a landlord, so a decision was made to put the property in joint names. 
From what she could see, a solicitor was involved in the process, and there was a solicitors 
letter from 2014 which confirmed the transfer of the title into joint names. However, there 
were no documents detailing what advice the adviser gave regarding putting the house in 
joint names  only about the mortgage itself. So, she couldnt be sure whether the adviser 
gave advice, or just information about Mr Fs options. And even though the adviser had 
initially given advice about the mortgage, shed referred Mr F to another adviser who gave 
advice on the mortgage that was eventually taken out. 
Shed considered whether, if a different adviser had been involved, a different decision 
would have been made here. She thought that as Mr F had said that he wanted to buy out 
his sisters share of the property, its likely that similar information would have been provided 
by any other adviser. She also thought that as there was a solicitor involved, there was the 
possibility that they may have provided advice on the transfer. 
Gifting units in the overseas trust
She considered why part of the investment was assigned to Mrs F and how much 
involvement the adviser had in the process. She noted what Mr F had said regarding Mrs F 
and the adviser coming up with the idea of gifting Mrs F two segments in the investment hed 
inherited, allegedly on grounds of tax efficiency. 
She noted emails shed seen from 2016 where Mrs F explained why she thought it was a 
good idea to have the segments transferred to her. But there was nothing to suggest that the 
adviser had told her to do this. However, there was evidence from 2016 which showed that 
the adviser was aware of the investment and she thought this appeared to be in preparation 
for assigning and encashing some segments  but noted that nothing appeared to have 
happened until 2017/18. It was at this time that the assignment of the segments was 
completed but this was carried out by another business. 
She thought that while there was evidence to show the adviser knew about the plan to 
transfer segments to Mrs F, there wasnt enough evidence to show that the adviser advised 
Mr and Mrs F about it. And because the eventual transfer didnt involve the adviser, she 
didnt think it would be fair to hold SJP responsible for it.
Increasing life cover
Shed investigated the recommendation to increase the life cover held by Mr F and found 
that Mrs F had made enquiries to A1 about increasing life cover for herself and Mr F in 
January 2017 to £1,500,000 for Mr F and £750,000 for herself. The investigator had seen 
notes from a meeting between Mr F, Mrs F and A1 which confirmed that discussions were 
held regarding the increase of life cover and the rationale behind the increase. 
The notes said, in summary, that they were looking at replacing their incomes over 17 years. 
However, Mrs F felt that they needed more cover, as in the event of Mr F dying, she would 
have to hire a managing director to run their businesses. Mr F didnt need as much cover, as 
in the event of Mrs F dying, he would continue to work and would hire a nanny to look after 
their children. The level of cover was eventually proposed as £1,500,000 for Mr F and £750,000 for Mrs F. 
The investigator thought that even though the evidence showed that the increase of cover 
had been driven by Mrs F, the reasons for the increase didnt seem unreasonable or 
unsuitable in the circumstances. 
Mr F didnt accept her findings. He made a number of points which Ive summarised below:
He was astonished at the position the investigator had adopted which appeared to 
rest on a judgment that any genuinely independent adviser would have been likely to 
have acted in the same way as his wifes longstanding best friend, always favouring 
her financial interests to his loss by facilitating the transfer of many hundreds of 
thousands of pounds of his assets to her, whilst routinely failing to comply with legal 
record-keeping duties, and never ever making any attempt to inform or advise him 
separately  or (normally) at all.
He thought her opinion was outside of what any reasonable impartial observer would 
conclude on reviewing all the information that had been presented.
He wasnt aware of any initial enquiries made in his name regarding buying his 
sisters share of the property theyd inherited.
He explained that he was an experienced landlord as hed rented out a property to 
his nephew. The adviser would have been aware of this as hed discussed this with 
her many times. The adviser also should have been aware as her children and his 
children were best friends and both families saw each other at least every week. 
During the year that his nephew lived in the property  which was the downstairs flat 
to Mr Fs house - his life would have been a regular topic of conversation. To pretend 
that the adviser wasnt aware of the tenancy was not credible.
The investigators reasoning and statement that the increase to the life cover wasnt 
unreasonable was outrageous and indefensible, except on sexist assumptions that a 
mother was more inclined to be a carer for children than a father. He thought that 
there was no real difference in his or his wifes needs or resources. And at the time 
the cover was taken out, his wife had long been doing no significant work of any kind 
for the business, so there was no need at all to hire anyone to replace her. He 
thought this was an excuse invented to justify insurance cover that he now strongly 
believed that his wife - with the advisers perhaps knowing support - hoped to 
capitalise on by engineering his death by suicide or otherwise.
He disagreed with what the investigator had said about the assignment of units in the 
overseas trusts. What was certain was that the justification given for the assignment 
was false and the units were never returned to him. 
He accepted that there was no documentary evidence the adviser had asked him to 
gift his wife some segments. However, this was because the adviser didnt keep 
records as she was obliged to by law. But the investigator had made it clear that she 
didnt consider such unlawful behaviour as being relevant.
The investigator had ignored the large amount of evidence showing beyond 
reasonable doubt that for around two decades his wife had regularly and routinely 
consulted the adviser about all decisions. Hed trusted the adviser to do her job as 
she was legally obliged to. Shed broken the law and betrayed his trust, while 
assisting his wife in defrauding him of hundreds of thousands of pounds over many 
years. The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr F for his detailed submissions and for sharing the challenging 
circumstances hes faced in his personal life. I appreciate the past few years have been very 
challenging for him and I sympathise with him greatly.
Ive considered what Mr F has said about the nature of the advisers relationship with his 
wife. And if this meant that the adviser favoured his wifes interests in the advice that she 
provided. When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I am required 
to take into account any relevant laws and regulations, guidance and rules provided by the 
regulator, and any codes of practice. I am also required to take into account, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that advisers are prohibited from giving advice to friends. 
However, they must ensure that any advice they give is suitable, they treat customers fairly 
and manage any conflicts of interest fairly. With this in mind, Ive thought about the points 
that Mr F has complained about.
Conduct of the adviser
Mr F has made serious allegations about the conduct of the adviser. Ive considered what 
hes said where its relevant to the determination of his complaint. However, it may be helpful 
if I point out that this service is not able to investigate these points in isolation and hold the 
adviser accountable for any potential misconduct that he has alleged. That is beyond our 
remit and would likely be within the remit of the industry regulator (the Financial Conduct 
Authority). 
Transfer of property
I understand Mr Fs strength of feeling about the transfer of property to his wife and I note 
the points hes made about the involvement of the adviser. Hes said that he didnt want to 
buy out his sisters share of the property, it was his wife who wanted this outcome, and the 
adviser provided the means for this to happen. The allegations Mr F have made are serious 
and Ive carefully considered the evidence relating to the transfer. 
Having done so, it would appear that Mr Fs intention at the time was to buy out his sister. I 
accept he has said that this isnt the case, but I must give regard to the contemporaneous 
evidence that is available. Documents from 2014 relating to the property say:
The intention within the family is that ownership be changed from Mr F & **** (brother and 
sister) to Mr F himself, and that the property will in fact be owned jointly by Mr F and his 
soon to be wife ***. This is a decision the family have made based on many different factors.
 Following transfer of title, Mr F intends to remortgage the property on a BLT basis in order 
to raise capital on the property.
If Mr F wants to buy the property out from **** (his sister) he will probably need a mortgage 
to do so.. Having reviewed the available evidence, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr F didnt 
want to buy out his sister. I dont think its uncommon after a bereavement for one party to 
buy out anothers share of an inherited property. And I havent seen anything to suggest that 
the adviser was aware of any potentially fraudulent activity. Instead, it seems she was acting 
in her capacity as financial adviser and providing advice on Mr and Mrs Fs requirement to 
raise capital to buy out Mr Fs sister. I also note that the majority of the discussions between 
the advisers office and potential mortgage providers were made by A1. 
A1 initially attempted to get a mortgage in Mr Fs sole name, but options appear to have 
been limited due to the amount of lending that was required. I note the points Mr F has made 
that the adviser should have been aware that he was an experienced landlord. However, in 
A1s emails to the mortgage provider, she had said that the property had been rented out 
since the passing of Mr Fs father. Ultimately, A1 was unable to get a mortgage in Mr Fs 
sole name or in joint names so Mr and Mrs F went elsewhere for mortgage advice.
I note that the adviser introduced Mr F and his wife to a solicitor who facilitated the transfer 
of title, but I havent seen anything to suggest she gave advice on the transfer and its 
implications. So, having considered the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say that the 
adviser or A1 did anything wrong regarding the transfer of property to Mrs F.
Gifting units in the overseas trust
Mr F has said that Mrs F persuaded him to gift her two of the segments in the La Mondiale 
bond for tax purposes, and she did so on the advice of the adviser. Ive considered the 
available evidence to establish the advisers role in the gifting of the segments. 
The first mention of the investments held in the overseas trust (which held two bonds  the 
La Mondiale investment and another bond) is in documents from 2014 where the adviser 
mentions that there may be tax to pay on the other bond if it was encashed. 
Further emails from 2016 show that there were discussions about encashing some 
segments from the La Mondiale bond and Mrs F said If he gifted me a segment then I would 
be able to use some of my "under 40%" rate too. In this case I would take up to my tax 
allowance in salary, then income from the rental property £400pcm and then the gifted La 
Mondiale segment. So in total we would be cashing in 2 segments and we would utilise this 
as income rather than dividends due to the rate of tax due on these funds.
Meeting notes from 2017 say:
 We talked about Le Mondiale. They have now gone back to B1 as a means of trying to get 
the information on how to access the money in the investment, which they have been trying 
to get for several months now. They want to release about £50,000 to do home 
improvements. There will be tax implications so far as I can tell from this because the gain is 
quite large, but it is someone called **** at PS job to get this information out of Le Mondiale - 
and if he can he is a braver man than us - in order to asses this. I have offered our help if we 
can do anything more than that but I think they are getting help from the only source that can 
actually receive information properly and that is probably the right course. 
We talked through how a Deed of Assignment works in practice because one of the models 
they are looking at doing that for is deeding some of the clusters to Mrs F, but they possibly 
won't manage that before TYE I would think at this rate. *** has just asked about transfer of 
segments for Mr F to Mrs F, that is exactly ****s purpose. He is still getting paid OAF from Le 
Mondiale for this policy so his role in this will be to highlight the tax liabilities etc. to them 
before they go ahead. I have invited them to let us know if they have any queries on what he 
tells them.So, from what Ive seen, there were generic discussions with the adviser about the transfer 
of segments but theres nothing to suggest that the adviser gave formal advice to do so and 
instead referred them to B1. I appreciate what Mr F has said about the justification Mrs F 
gave for the gifting of the segments being false, but Im unable to fairly hold the adviser 
responsible for this and overall Im not persuaded that she has done anything wrong relating 
to the La Mondiale investment. 
The increase in life cover
The life cover for both Mr and Mrs F was increased in 2017 following a recommendation 
from A1. Mr F has said, in summary, that he should have had a similar amount of cover as 
Mrs F and not a larger amount.
Ive considered the recommendation. The documentation from a meeting at the time with Mr 
and Mrs F says that they were looking for cover over a 17 year term which would take them 
up until the point their youngest daughter had potentially left university and was in early 
adulthood. A1 looked at replacing their incomes which equated to around £700,000 of life 
cover. Mrs F didnt feel this was sufficient for her in the event of Mr F dying and wanted him 
to have around £1,500,000 of life cover. 
The records say If Mrs F dies, we would need 17 more years of cover because that would 
take ***** - the youngest - to early adulthood past university. Mr F's concern is being able to 
pay for a nanny and being able to replace somewhat the input into the business that Mrs F 
has.
If Mr F died, Mrs F is far more concerned because he wants to be able to put the business to 
one side and focus on the children whereas Mr F would still want to keep working. Mr F's 
role is managing director and he would want to carry that on whereas Mrs F wants to be able 
to be able to shut the business off.
Im not persuaded that in the circumstances there is bias in one party having a higher level 
of cover than the other. I say this because of the differing requirements that were given at 
the time, Mr F wanted to keep more of an active role in the day to day running of the 
business than Mrs F did. 
I appreciate that Mr F has subsequently said that there was no real difference in his and his 
wifes needs or resources at the time, but hes also made it clear that she had less 
involvement in the running of the business than he did. Therefore, I dont think its 
unreasonable to suggest that Mrs F had more of a need to hire someone to replace Mr F if 
he died as opposed to him needing to hire someone to replace her. And it is this extra cost 
of hiring someone to replace him which was given as the reason as Mrs F needing more 
cover. So, having taken everything into account, I dont think the recommendation was 
unsuitable. 
In summary, having reviewed the points Mr F has complained about, Im not persuaded it 
would be fair for me to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr F, but I hope he understands why Ive come to the decision I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman