DRN-2390186
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in 1997.
Upon complaining, YBS upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. However, it said that, as no 
premiums had been paid towards the policy, there was no redress due.
I wrote a provisional decision in October 2020 in which I explained why I was not thinking of 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions before I 
reached my final decision. Mr and Mrs S have provided some additional comments that I will 
address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
In their response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs S have commented on what 
possible failings might have taken place during the sale in 1997. However, as mentioned in 
my provisional decision, as YBS upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, I dont need to make a 
finding about whether or not the PPI was mis-sold. This decision is only looking at whether 
Mr and Mrs S paid anything for the policy and are therefore due compensation.
Mr and Mrs S said that YBS has provided contradictory information about exactly how much 
they paid towards the policy, if anything. Actually, it was mostly the way that the information 
provided has been interpreted by this service which is at fault. My provisional decision set 
out what actually happened in the hope of clearing up any misunderstandings.
The policy was sold to Mr and Mrs S on the basis that it was free for the first six months. 
This is clearly noted on the mortgage offer which states: You have elected to take out 
Mortgage Payment Insurance to cover a monthly amount of £480. The monthly premium is 
£29.95 (inclusive of IPT) but the society will not charge you for the first six months premiums 
following the completion date of your mortgage. After this period the monthly premium of 
£29.95 will be added to the monthly payment.
The mortgage completed on 26 June 1997 and the mortgage payments were due on the 24th 
of each month. Therefore, on 24 July 1997 and every month until 24 December 1997, the 
premiums were covered by YBS. 
Mr and Mrs S requested the policys cancellation in January 1998 when they had to start 
paying the premiums themselves. There is evidence that they wrote to YBS in January 1998 
to request cancellation. However, there was an error at this time and the policy wasnt 
cancelled. This resulted in Mr and Mrs S making four payments for January  April 1998, by 
which time the premiums had reduced to £27.21 per month.
Ive seen a letter dated 23 April 1998 from YBS to Mr and Mrs S that states: Further to our 
recent telephone conversation, please find enclosed a disclaimer form for completion and 
return. Please note that all refund of payments will be backdated to January, when your 
original letter was received. Please accept my apologies for the delay in actioning your 
request.
I dont know when Mr and Mrs S returned the disclaimer form, although I imagine they would 
have done this in good time. But for whatever reason, the policy wasnt cancelled until after 
the payment for May 1998 was taken. Therefore in total, Mr and Mrs S paid five premiums of 
£27.21, totalling £136.05.
Refunding the money to Mr and Mrs S also didnt go smoothly. Ive seen a YBS internal 
memo dated 2 June 1998 saying that a refund had only been done for May 1998. YBS then 
did refund the premiums paid for January  April 1998.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage ledger that shows all debits and credits. I can 
see that one refund of £27.21 was done on 29 May 1998 and that four refunds for £27.21 
(totalling £108.84) were done on 16 July 1998. This tallies with the chain of events explained 
above.
There are a few reasons why this issue has been the cause of confusion. Firstly, YBS didnt 
go into any detail in its final response letter and only said that, as no payments were made, 
no redress was due. It should more accurately have said that payments that were made 
were refunded. However, overall the position is the same in that Mr and Mrs S ultimately 
havent paid anything for the PPI.
The statement that no payments had been made then appeared to be contradicted by the 
adjudicator who looked at the case, who incorrectly said in his letter of 3 June 2020 that Mr 
and Mrs S had paid premiums between July  December 1997 and then said that six 
premiums of £29.95 were refunded.
When Mr and Mrs S challenged this apparently new information, our adjudicator then asked 
YBS to clarify the payment information. However, this again caused confusion because YBS 
then provided a transaction list of six debits of £29.95 for July  December 1997, followed by 
six credits for £29.95 for the same period. And then five debits of £27.21 for January -May 
1998, followed by five credits of £27.21 for the same period.
This led Mr and Mrs S to assume, not unreasonably, that they were now being told that they 
paid eleven months worth of premiums which were subsequently refunded. However, YBS 
had simply lifted the transaction data from the mortgage ledger, without providing any 
context.
On the mortgage ledger, the amounts of £29.95 are debited and then immediately credited 
on the same day, thereby cancelling each other out. This is an accounting device used by 
banks and does not denote actual payments being made by Mr and Mrs S. In contrast, the 
payments that Mr and Mrs S made for January - May 1998 show on the ledger as debits of 
£27.21. Then the ledger describes the amount of £27.21 on 29 May 1998 and the amount of 
£108.84 on 16 July 1998 as refund of payment.Based on the available evidence, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs S received the first six 
months of the policy for free. They then paid premiums for five months between January and 
May 1998, however these payments had been fully refunded to Mr and Mrs S by mid-July 
1998. 
Having received a full explanation of the situation in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs S 
say they have been caused genuine shock and distress by the many failings made by YBS. 
They say that YBSs investigation of their complaint was thoroughly unfit for purpose. 
However, YBS did correctly conclude that no refund was due. If YBS had set out in its final 
response letter the full details of the payments and refunds made, Mr and Mrs would still 
have been in the same position.
Mr and Mrs S say that our investigation revealed further failings by YBS. There were clearly 
administrative errors in the way that YBS handled the cancellation of the policy and the 
refund of premiums. But of course, Mr and Mrs S would have known about that in 1998 at 
the time they were trying to cancel to policy  and they could have complained about it at the 
time if they were dissatisfied with the service they received. I am not persuaded that being 
reminded of those failings now has caused them additional distress.
Mr and Mrs S say it cannot be right for an institution like YBS to behave unprofessionally and 
then be subject to no sanctions. The Ombudsman Service does not punish or fine financial 
institutions  that is a job for the regulator. With regard to individual complaints, if failings are 
found, we aim to put things right by putting the consumers back in the position they would 
have been in if the failings had not occurred. In this case, as Mr and Mrs S received a full 
refund of premiums in 1998, they have not suffered a financial loss. Therefore, there is 
nothing that YBS needs to do to compensate them for the mis-sale.
Mr and Mrs S would like compensation for distress and inconvenience, and I have thought 
carefully about this. Making a complaint about PPI generally involves a level of 
inconvenience and it can take time to see a complaint through. It is also common for more 
information to come to light once a complaint reaches this service. I appreciate what Mr and 
Mrs S have said, but overall I am not persuaded that YBSs failings were significant enough 
to warrant an award for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and make no award against 
Yorkshire Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman