DRN-3978600
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to process an online payment that Mr K 
made to pay off his mobile phone bill. This resulted in his mobile phone contract nearly being 
cancelled.
What happened
Mr K made an online payment from his Lloyds account on 9 April 2022 to pay his mobile 
phone bill. On 13 April 2022 he received a call from his mobile phone provider to say that 
hed not paid his bill and warned him that if he didnt, his contract would be cancelled. I 
understand his mobile phone provider gave him a week in which to make payment.
Mr K contacted Lloyds on 14 April 2022 to complain that the payment had not gone through 
as it was showing as pending on his account. Lloyds agreed to cancel the payment and 
suggested Mr K tried making the payment again. Mr K was eventually able to pay his mobile 
phone bill, with the payment going through on 19 April 2022.
In response to Mr Ks complaint, Lloyds said that it had approved his payments, and said 
that the issue was caused by his mobile phone provider not claiming the payment.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they concluded that Lloyds was not at 
fault for the payments not going through. 
Mr K disagreed with adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im unable to say that Lloyds has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter. I will explain why.
Firstly, I can see why this matter was frustrating for Mr K. As far as Mr K was concerned, he 
had done what he was required to do and had made the payment before it was due to be 
made. Yet on the one hand Lloyds said his payment had been authorised, but on the other 
his mobile phone provider said it hadnt received the money. However, I would like to make it 
clear that Im limited to only consider whether Lloyds did anything wrong. As such, Im 
unable to consider or comment on what mayve happened with the mobile phone provider, 
with regards to the payments.
After Mr K brought his complaint to us, we requested that Lloyds provide all the evidence it 
had to show what had happened with Mr Ks payments. And Lloyds has provided our service 
with evidence to show that it had approved Mr Ks payments of £107 to be paid to the mobile 
phone provider on both 9 April 2022 and on 14 April 2022. There is no evidence to suggest 
that Lloyds had stopped or declined the payments  they are showing as approved in the 
evidence that Lloyds provided. And its the case that once the transactions were approved 
for payment by Lloyds, it was then up to the merchant, in this case Mr Ks mobile phone 
provider, to then claim the payments. 
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, Im satisfied that the problems Mr K 
experienced in paying his mobile phone bill was not due to anything that Lloyds had done. In 
short, Mr K had made payments and Lloyds had authorised them to be made. And its the 
case that I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible if a merchant, for whatever reason, 
doesnt claim a payment that has already been authorised by Lloyds.
Mr K has said that Lloyds shouldve notified him that the payment hadnt gone through. But 
Lloyds is not required to do that. All that Lloyds is required to do is ensure the money is 
available for the merchant to claim and to automatically return any unclaimed payments back 
to Mr Ks account within 7 days. And as far as I can see, this happened. Indeed, if an 
authorised payment is not claimed by the merchant, then this is something the account 
holder will have to take up with the merchant.
However, even though Lloyds had authorised the payment and was not required to notify Mr 
K whether the payment was claimed by the merchant or not, I can see that when Mr K called 
Lloyds on 14 April 2022, it did try and help Mr K with the payment. Lloyds arranged for the 
payment that had already been authorised and was pending the merchants acceptance, to 
be cancelled and suggested Mr K try manually making the payment again. I understand that 
the payment did eventually go through on 19 April 2022. As such, I think that Lloyds did what 
it could to help Mr K with the difficulties he had with the payment.
As such, whilst I recognise that Mr K has been frustrated by this matter, Im unable to say 
that the issues he experienced were caused by anything that Lloyds had done. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to uphold this complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman