DRN-2392348
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited allowed him to renew his private medical 
insurance policy for a number of years without telling him that it had a less expensive policy 
which he could have had instead.
What happened
Mr M was a member of a group private medical insurance policy for employees and former 
employees of Aviva. He had been a member of this group policy for a number of years. The 
policy also provided cover for his wife.
In 2019, Aviva invited Mr M to renew his membership of the policy for an annual cost of 
£5,485. Mr M was concerned at the cost and rang Aviva to see if he could reduce this by, for 
example, increasing the policy excess. Avivas representative suggested that Mr M switch to 
a personal policy covering him and his wife for which he quoted an annual cost of £1,897.
Mr M agreed to switch to the personal policy. However, he complained to Aviva that it should 
have made him aware of this cheaper policy sooner.
Aviva issued a final response letter to Mr M in which it explained that the group policy 
operated differently to the personal policy. In particular, under the group scheme, members 
were charged according to the claims of the group rather than their individual claims. 
However, under the personal policy, a no-claims discount (NCD) scheme meant that a 
members claims impacted on their premium. It also explained that it had made errors in the 
calculation of Mr Ms premium, including by allowing him a 40% staff discount to which he 
was not entitled. It said that without these errors he would have been charged £4,117 for his 
policy. It furthermore said that under the personal policy Mr M had chosen to reduce the 
breadth of hospitals from which he could obtain cover compared to the group policy and, if it 
werent for this, the correct price for the new policy would have been £4,941, which was 
approximately 90% of the renewal price hed been quoted for the group policy. It assured 
Mr M it would honour the price he had been quoted for the coming year and furthermore said 
it would allow him a 25% retiree discount at the next renewal to replace the 40% staff 
discount. It said that if Mr M wanted to switch back to the group policy in light of the new 
information, it would arrange this. It also offered £200 compensation for its poor service.
Mr M wasnt happy with Avivas response. He continued to complain that it should have told 
him sooner about the availability of the cheaper policy.
Aviva reviewed the matter. It noted that when sending Mr M his 2018 and 2019 renewal 
invitations it had included wording mandated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
encouraging him to shop around in case he could obtain a better deal elsewhere. However, 
this wording had not been included as it should have been on the 2017 renewal invitation 
(the FCA requirement didnt apply before 2017). It noted that if Mr M had chosen to switch to 
the personal policy in 2017, he would have saved a total of £3,017 in premiums over the 
next two years. In view of this, and taking into account the service issues he had 
experienced, it offered a further £3,800 in compensation thereby taking the total 
compensation to £4,000.
Mr M remained unhappy with Avivas offer. He considered he had been overpaying for his 
insurance since before 2017and that he should therefore be further compensated. He 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion, Aviva 
had acted fairly.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that Aviva had been aware that some 
members of the scheme were paying more for their insurance cover than they could have 
been paying but had not shared this information which he considered was unfair. He said 
that under the group scheme he had been paying three times the amount he could have 
been paying for exactly the same cover under the personal policy.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We generally take the view that it is up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided it does this fairly and consistently, in accordance with its internal 
guidelines, it is an area in which we normally would not get involved.
In this case, Aviva has explained that it calculated Mr Ms premium under the group policy 
correctly. He was being charged the right amount for that particular policy. To that extent, he 
was not being overcharged for his cover.
Mr Ms argument is that Aviva should have informed him some years ago that he could have 
got cheaper cover through the personal policy. He has now transferred to the personal policy 
and says this is a third of the price of the group policy.
Let me first clarify to Mr M that the reason he is now paying 65% less than the group policy 
2019 renewal quote is because he is being undercharged for the current years premium and 
has reduced his cover. If he was being charged the correct amount, with the same level of 
hospital cover, and wasnt given the 25% discretionary retiree discount which Aviva has 
agreed to offer from his next renewal, the annual premium for the personal policy would 
have been £4,941. This is a saving on his group policy renewal premium of £544, or 
approximately 10%.
More importantly, as Aviva has explained, the group policy and personal policy operate 
differently in that the latter has an NCD element. Aviva has placed Mr M on the maximum 
discount of 75%. So although I say above that the correct annual premium for the basis of 
comparison is £4,941, it should be borne in mind that the underlying premium of Mr Ms 
personal policy is actually £19,764. In other words, this is the amount which someone in 
Mr Ms position would pay if they had no NCD entitlement. So it is not as straightforward as 
Mr M implies when he says that Aviva knowingly withheld information about a cheaper 
policy. It would all depend on the claims history of the individual on the group policy. Some 
group policy members may have benefited from a cheaper premium under the personal 
policy while other members may have been required to pay a lot more. It is also quite likely 
that some members would choose to remain paying a higher premium for the group policy 
because of the protection it offered against steep increases due to their future claims.I therefore disagree that Aviva should have drawn attention to the personal policy much 
sooner. Aviva offered Mr M the option of renewing his policy each year. If he was unhappy 
with the renewal price offered, it was open to him to contact Aviva or seek alternative quotes 
from elsewhere. I recognise that, by switching insurer, Mr M and his wife may have ended up 
losing cover for existing conditions but it was still open to him to make those enquiries. 
I dont think that it was up to Aviva to guess that he may be dissatisfied and draw his 
attention to the personal policy, particularly as it was not bound to be cheaper for all group 
policy members and, because it operated in a different way, might have been seen by Mr M 
as less attractive than the group policy.
As it was, Mr M chose to contact Aviva at the 2019 renewal to ask about the cost of cover 
and it offered him the option of moving to the personal policy which he accepted. I think this 
was fair. I also consider that when it discovered it had made errors in calculating his 
premium, it acted fairly by agreeing to honour the quoted price for the current year, agreeing 
to apply a 25% discount from the next renewal, and offering him the option to move back to 
the group policy if he wished.
After Mr M challenged its response, Aviva noted it had failed to include in the 2017 renewal 
invitation the suggestion that he should shop around for a better deal. In light of this, it 
agreed to reimburse the £3,017 Mr M could have saved if he had moved to the personal 
policy in 2017 and to round this up to total compensation of £4,000 to take account of its 
service failings. Given that Mr M didnt take any action when the shop around wording was 
included on the 2018 renewal invitation, I consider it unlikely he would have done anything 
differently if it had been included on the 2017 renewal invitation. This being the case, I think 
Avivas offer to reimburse the difference in premiums is very fair. And the compensation for 
its service failings, even if one allows for interest on the £3,017, is in the region of £800 
which also seems very fair.
In light of the above, while I recognise that Mr M remains unhappy, I consider that Aviva has 
acted reasonably in this matter. I dont consider it needs to pay Mr M anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman