DRN-3623159
The complaint
Miss E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly recorded 
missed payments on her credit file. 
What happened
Miss E has a credit card with Barclaycard. In September 2021 Miss E contacted Barclaycard 
and explained she was experiencing some difficulties maintaining payments. Miss Es told us 
she was experiencing health problems at the time. Miss E says she thought a payment 
holiday had been agreed and didnt go on to make payments for September, October or 
November 2021. 
Miss E later complained to Barclaycard when she found missed payments on her credit file. 
Initially, an agent at Barclaycard agreed to remove the missed payments. But when 
Barclaycard issued its final response it confirmed that was a mistake. Barclaycard said there 
was no option for Miss E to take a payment holiday or missed payments without impact to 
her credit file when she called in September 2021. Barclaycard paid Miss E £25 to 
apologise. 
An investigator at this service said they thought Barclaycard had dealt with Miss Es 
complaint fairly.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Es told us that she thought a payment freeze had been agreed when she called 
Barclaycard in September 2021. But Barclaycard says theres no evidence to show it agreed 
Miss E could stop making payments without impact to her credit file. Ive looked at 
Barclaycards terms and conditions. They set out how the credit card will work and the 
different features included. But theres no reference to an option for customers to take a 
three month payment holiday or freeze without missed payments being noted. 
The Financial Conduct Authority had previously approved a short term measure to support 
customers experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the pandemic. That support 
allowed for payment holidays to be approved. But, as Barclaycard has said, the support 
option was withdrawn in March 2021, around six months before Miss E asked Barclaycard 
for support. 
Whilst I understand Miss E did speak with Barclaycard about her circumstances in 
September 2021, Im satisfied there was no option for her to take a payment holiday or 
freeze without the missed payments being reported on her credit file. 
Barclaycard wrote to Miss E about the status of her account and missed payments. And I 
can see it continued to send monthly statements. So Im satisfied Barclaycard clearly set out 
the payments due and status of the account.
Barclaycard apologised for initially telling Miss E the arrears information would be removed 
and paid her £25. Im sorry to disappoint Miss E but Im satisfied thats a fair way to resolve 
her complaint and recognises the level of distress and inconvenience caused. As Im 
satisfied Barclaycard has dealt with Miss Es complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman