DRN-3085014
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society made a number of mistakes transferring his 
ISA to another provider after it matured, causing him to lose out and worry and stress.
What happened
Mr S has a stock and shares ISA with Nationwide. Mr S asked Nationwide to transfer the 
proceeds to another provider the day his ISA matured  in other words, on 16 April 2020. 
Hes told us that his new provider said the transfer would take between six to seven working 
days, meaning the transfer ought to have completed by 24 April 2020 (assuming it took 6 
working days). Hes also told us that businesses are expected to complete transfers in no 
more than 15 working days, meaning the transfer ought to have been complete no later than 
7 May 2020. In fact, the transfer wasnt complete until 20 July 2020  thats when the other 
provider received the cash proceeds.
Mr S complained to Nationwide and to his new provider about the delay  he wasnt sure at 
the time who was responsible. He complained that the delay meant hed ended up with less 
units in the two funds he invested in than he otherwise would have done so. He wanted:
(a) to be put back into the position he would have been had the delay not occurred;
(b) to be compensated for the worry and stress he and his wife had suffered whilst the 
matter had remained unresolved; and
(c) to be reimbursed costs he incurred as a result of extra work his financial adviser had 
to do.
Having spoken to both sides, Mr S concluded that the vast majority of the delay  if not all of 
the delay  was down to Nationwide. So, he asked Nationwide to put him back into the 
position he should have been. Nationwide offered him £75 in compensation, which Mr S was 
unhappy with. So, he complained to us.
Our investigator agreed with Mr S that Nationwide was responsible for the vast majority of 
the delay. They said that Nationwide should put Mr S back into the position he would have 
been had the transfer been completed on 2 June 2020. Nationwide offered to pay Mr S 
£110.56 which it said was the difference in the price that hed paid for the units he ended up 
buying and the price he would have paid had the transfer been completed on 2 June 2020. 
In addition, Nationwide agreed to pay an additional £200 in compensation. Mr S was 
unhappy with this offer for a number of reasons, including the fact that he wanted to have to 
units added to the two funds he invested in to make them up to what they would have been 
had the transfer been completed on 24 April 2020. So, I was asked to consider this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator thought that Nationwide should have completed the transfer within 30 
working days  and said that this meant it should have been completed by 2 June 2020. 
They thought that on the basis that the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Ss ISA at the 
time said that:
If you are transferring to a stocks and shares ISA  we will transfer the money 
within the time stipulated by you or within 30 days of receiving the request from your 
new ISA manager, whichever is the longer period.
The rules on transferring cash ISAs, however, say that a transfer should be completed within 
30 calendar days rather than working days. If I accept that Nationwide should have 
completed this transfer within 30 calendar days, that means accepting that the transfer 
should have been completed by 16 May 2020 (which was a Saturday) at the latest.
In this case, I can see that Mr Ss new provider made the transfer request on 16 April 2020 
and that Nationwide accepted the request on 28 April 2020. The new provider responded the 
following day, on 29 April 2020. The transfer then got stuck  for no good reason  and 
despite Mr S chasing the transfer and the new provider doing so too, the transfer didnt 
complete. Nationwide then rejected the transfer  for no good reason  twice, on 24 June 
2020 and 2 July 2020. And it was only after the new provider sent a paper request to 
Nationwide  on 9 July 2020  that the transfer completed. Had Nationwide done more 
sooner, I dont think it is unrealistic to say that the transfer should and could have been 
complete by 7 May 2020. In other words, within the 15 working days that Mr S says all 
transfers should be completed. I asked both parties to comment on what date I should use  
both did and Mr S helpfully provided additional information too. Having taken their comments 
into account, and the additional information Mr S sent in, I think the right date to use  given 
what Ive also just said  is 7 May 2020. So thats the date Ive used to calculate the number 
of units Mr S would have bought had the transfer gone smoothly. In turn, Ive used that to 
calculate the loss Mr S has made as a result of the delay.
Mr Ss financial adviser has calculated the loss that Mr S made as a result of the delay  
using the date Ive selected and based on the investment Im satisfied Mr S planned to 
make. Ive shared those calculations with Nationwide and asked it to let me know whether or 
not it agrees with them. Unfortunately, I havent heard back from Nationwide. I am, however, 
satisfied that Mr Ss financial adviser has calculated the loss that Mr S has made as a result 
of the delay correctly. So, as Ive already explained I was going to do, Im going to require 
Nationwide to pay Mr S £6,550.22 in compensation to cover the loss hes made. Mr S has 
told us that he would prefer Nationwide to add units to his investment  this would mean 
those units also get favourable ISA tax treatment, but Nationwide has said that this isnt 
possible. So, Ive factored this into my overall award  see below.
Ive explained to Mr S that I cant award compensation for any distress or inconvenience his 
wife experienced. Ive also explained to both sides that I think the award to date - £275  is 
too low and that I think £400 would be a more appropriate award. I asked both parties to 
comment on this, and having done so, I remain of the view that £400 would be fair 
compensation in this case.
Im also satisfied that Mr S has incurred costs  as a result of the additional time his financial 
adviser has spent on this complaint  totalling £297.50 over the course of this complaint. 
Again, Ive told both parties that I think these costs should be reimbursed, and Ive asked for 
comments. I remain of that view, so am going to award Mr S an additional £297.50 to cover 
his costs.Putting things right
Mr S has told us that he wants:
(a) to be put back into the position you would have been had the delay not occurred;
(b) to be compensated for the worry and stress you and your wife suffered whilst the 
matter remained unresolved; and
(c) to be reimbursed costs you incurred as a result of extra work your financial adviser 
had to do.
I agree, subject to the comments Ive made in relation to his wife, that this is fair and 
reasonable. So, Im going to require Nationwide to pay Mr S £6,550.22 to compensate him 
for the losses hes made, £400 to compensate him for distress and inconvenience and 
£297.50 as reimbursement for costs hes incurred in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr S £6,550.22 to 
compensate him for the losses hes made, £400 to compensate him for distress and 
inconvenience and £297.50 as reimbursement for costs hes incurred in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman