DRN-3339076
The complaint
Mr C complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM) and their failure to 
recover the funds he transferred to the wrong account.
What happened
Mr C held a current account with VM. On 22 May 2021, Mr C transferred £1,000 out of this 
account via online banking. But Mr C sent it to the wrong payee. So, Mr C contacted VM on 
24 May to make them aware of this and ask them to assist him in recovering the funds.
VM completed a Credit Payment Recovery (CPR) form and sent this to the recipients bank 
on 26 May. But the recipient bank responded on 25 June, explaining their customer hadnt 
responded to their contact attempts asking for the funds to be returned. So, they were 
unable to transfer the funds back to VM and Mr C. VM wrote to Mr C the following day 
explaining this. But Mr C was unhappy, so he raised a complaint.
Mr C didnt think VM had done enough to recover the funds he sent in error. He explained 
the funds were intended for the mother of his daughter who needed certain items and he 
didnt think it was fair that they were left without this money. Nor did he think it was fair that 
he was left without what he said were his life savings. So, he wanted VM to credit his 
account with the funds and for them to reclaim them from the recipient directly. Mr C was 
also unhappy with how long it took VM to provide a response to his claim.
VM responded and upheld the complaint. They agreed the claim took longer than it 
shouldve to be settled due to delays with the recipient bank. So, they paid Mr C £50 to 
recognise this inconvenience this caused. But they thought they had done all they could to 
reclaim Mr Cs funds. And they didnt think Mr C was left out of pocket due to any error they 
made. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint. 
Mr C remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised financial 
impact not being able to reclaim the £1,000 had on Mr C. But they thought VM had done all 
theyd expect them to do to try and reclaim it. And they thought the £50 was a fair offer to 
recognise the fact the claim took longer than 21 days to settle. So, they didnt think VM 
needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He maintained his belief that VM should credit the funds to his account 
and he referred to conversations he held with VM where they said this would happen. As Mr 
C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I recognise he 
transferred the £1,000 to the wrong payee in a genuine mistake, and I appreciate this was a 
substantial sum of money to him. So, I can understand why hed be left frustrated and 
unhappy that VM, the provider of his current account, hasnt been able to secure a refund of 
these funds on his behalf.
But for me to say VM have done something wrong, and should credit Mr Cs account for the 
funds he mistakenly transferred, Id need to be satisfied that VM failed to take the actions Id 
expect when trying to obtain a refund for Mr C. Or, that VM acted unfairly during this 
process. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain how Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to comment on the 
rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, in these types of 
situations. The rules explain that when a customer mistakenly transfers funds to the wrong 
person, the customers bank should make a reasonable effort to recover it. But the rules also 
explain that the bank would not be liable for any of the customers losses.
So, Ive thought about whether I think VM made reasonable effort to recover the funds. And I 
think they have.
I can see that within 48 hours of Mr C making VM aware of the incorrect transfer, VM had 
raised and sent a CPR form to the recipient bank. This is what Id expect them to do as this 
is set process they are expected to follow. And I can see that the recipient bank responded, 
explaining they were unable to contact the recipient and so, they couldnt return the funds. 
Unfortunately, VM cant force the recipient bank to return the funds. So, when the recipient 
bank said a refund couldnt be processed, I dont think VM couldve done anything more to 
secure Mr Cs funds. 
And I can see VM set out other options available to Mr C when they made him aware of the 
recipient banks response and I think this shows VM making an effort to support Mr C, even 
though they were unable to impact the loss themselves.
Mr C himself has accepted it was his mistake that led to the incorrect transfer. And the rules 
set out by the regulator explain that in this situation, VM arent liable for Mr Cs losses. So, I 
wouldnt expect VM to credit Mr Cs account the £1,000 he lost, and I cant say theyve acted 
unfairly by not doing so. Because of this, I dont think VM need to do anything more for this 
aspect of the complaint.
Im aware VM have accepted the claim process took longer than the 21 days and Ive seen 
this myself from the evidence provided to me. VM have paid Mr C £50 to recognise any 
upset this caused. And I think this offer is a fair one and in line with what I wouldve directed 
had it not already been made. I think this adequately recognises the upset and frustration Mr 
C wouldve felt when he was waiting for an outcome to the claim while taking into 
consideration the fact VM would not have been able to recover the funds on his behalf. So, I 
dont think VM need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt assist him 
in recovering the £1,000 hes lost due to the incorrect transfer. But I cant say Mr C has been 
left without these funds because of anything VM has done wrong. I appreciate Mr C doesnt 
think this is fair and believes VM should credit him the funds as they told him this is what 
they do. But whether or not VM advised the funds would or could be reclaimed, Ive seen the 
recipient bank refused to refund the funds. And it is the recipient bank who would need to return them, not VM.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman