DRN-3776624
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs J are unhappy that Cambridge Building Society (Cambridge) caused 
unnecessarily delays when they were trying to obtain a mortgage. They said that because of 
the delays, they have incurred costs and lost out on the stamp duty holiday.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs J applied to Cambridge for a mortgage. They were given a decision in 
principle on 21 April 2021. They say that Cambridge delayed instructing the surveyor and 
when the survey was carried out on 1 June 2021, they were told by Cambridge that an 
EWS1 form was required. 
Mr D and Mrs J said that this was contested by the freeholder on the basis that it wasnt a 
requirement based on the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) guidance. They 
said that after long exchanges their application was declined. So they found another lender, 
but this meant that they missed out on the stamp duty holiday and also paid rental costs as 
they had to rent a property for three months for their son. They feel that the delays caused 
have meant they have incurred costs they otherwise wouldnt have had to pay.
Cambridge explained that they were entitled to rely on the opinion of the surveyor and that at 
the time, they were extremely busy due to unprecedented demand for their services. They 
said that they made it clear to Mr D and Mrs Js broker, that the application wouldnt be 
guaranteed to complete in time for the stamp duty holiday. 
Mr D and Mrs J were unhappy with what Cambridge said so they brought their complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our 
investigator thought that there was a delay in Cambridge updating Mr D and Mrs J of around 
a month in August 2021, but he was satisfied that Cambridge were entitled to rely on what 
the surveyor had said. So he partially upheld the complaint and thought that Cambridge 
should offer Mr D and Mrs J £150 compensation.
Mr D and Mrs J disagreed with what the investigator said. They made the following 
comments:
With regards to the investigator explaining he hasnt commented on everything, Mr D 
and Mrs J wanted to know what arguments were presented by Cambridge which 
countered their own arguments and what were the key issues that the investigators 
opinion was based on
Their complaint focuses on Cambridge being accountable for their assignment and 
nomination of questionably competent third parties whose prolonged deliberations 
caused them to incur additional and unnecessary costs
They believe its incorrect to link delays to a shortage of surveyors at that time
The requirement for an EWS1 was challenged by the freeholder which was then 
accepted by Cambridge. Guidelines provided by RICs were very clear on the 
requirements
Cambridge changed their minds and eventually agreed to the mortgage and would 
like to know what factors influenced them to change their mind
They asked that we review the timeline between the date of the survey and the final 
approval by Cambridge. The fire certificate was available from the beginning of the 
process
In summary they said Cambridge nominated a firm who were not conversant with the 
building guidelines and regulations. Cambridge didnt seek professional clarification from 
their own management about the relevance of the EWS1 and this caused significant delays.
Cambridge also delayed notifying them on the outcome until over a month later on 17 
August 2021 and even though this was acknowledged by the investigator, they are unsure 
how the compensation figure of £150 was arrived at.
As Mr D and Mrs J disagreed with the investigator, they asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The EWS1 form was introduced in collaboration between government, the mortgage industry 
and the surveying industry following the Grenfell Tower tragedy. The fire at Grenfell Tower 
led to concerns across the country about the possibility of combustible cladding and other 
fire safety issues  including balconies built on top of each other  which might allow fire to 
spread quickly through affected buildings.
The EWS1 process allows a qualified fire safety inspector to assess a buildings external 
wall system. The building will then be given a rating  showing that there are no fire safety 
risks, that there are issues but the risk is low, or that there are issues which are high enough 
risk to require remedial work. Obtaining an EWS1 form is the responsibility of the building 
owner/management company, not individual leaseholders, since the form covers the whole 
building. 
The EWS1 process was designed, among other things, to give mortgage lenders enough 
information to decide whether a building presented a particular fire safety risk. Lenders will 
only lend where the property which is subject to the mortgage is good security for the loan  
and if theres a fire safety risk, it might not be good security. Thats because the higher risk 
of damage to the property, and also a greater likelihood that it wont be able to be sold.
General guidance to surveyors and valuers from their professional body is that an EWS1 will 
be required where there are potential cladding or other issues and the building is six storeys 
or higher. And that an EWS1 may be required for smaller buildings too, if there are grounds 
for considering theres a risk that needs to be assessed. 
In common with other lenders, Cambridge took these issues into account in setting their 
lending criteria for lending mortgages on properties in blocks of flats and similar buildings. 
Their instructions to valuers say that they require an EWS1 on smaller buildings where the 
building has potential combustible cladding or balconies. And they will only lend where there 
is an EWS1, and where the EWS1 shows theres no risk or need for remediation work. 
In this case, Mr D and Mrs J applied for a mortgage. Cambridge took their financial details 
and considered their reasons for asking for the mortgage. They were given a decision in 
principle on 21 April 2021 and proceeded to application the following day. I can see from the 
contact notes provided by Cambridge, that the valuation was instructed on 29 April 2021. 
The valuation was carried out on 1 June 2021. The valuers report says that the external wall 
system of the property may contain potentially combustible materials. They requested an 
EWS1 form to determine if the property was adequate security for Cambridge to lend on.It was reasonable for Cambridge to rely on the opinion of a qualified surveyor expert in 
assessing and valuing buildings, to decide whether Mr D and Mrs Js property was good 
security. 
Mr D and Mrs J say that the freeholder didnt think that an EWS1 form was required, and Ive 
seen an email where this has been challenged. It was mentioned by both the freeholder and 
Mr D and Mrs J that the RICs guidelines were not adhered to because the block was less 
than six storeys. The block was in fact only three floors with Mr D and Mrs Js property being 
on the ground floor. And as their building is less than six storeys, there is more discretion 
about whether an EWS1 is needed than there would be if it was taller. But the guidance to 
surveyors is that an EWS1 can be required even for smaller buildings  like this one  if 
there are grounds for thinking theres a risk. 
I can see this put Mr D and Mrs J in a difficult position. Their freeholder didnt think an EWS1 
was needed but the valuer said one was needed  and so Cambridge couldnt proceed 
without it. Just because the freeholder didnt agree, that doesnt mean the qualified surveyor 
was wrong. 
I have seen the contact notes that Cambridge have provided which shows email exchanges 
between Cambridge and also that of the surveyors between themselves. Cambridge was 
entitled to rely on the opinion of the valuer but I can see they did question the surveyor on 
the fact that the property was under six storeys after being told by Mr D and Mrs J that an 
EWS1 form wasnt required. 
There is an exchange from the surveyor to Cambridge which says the cladding on the block 
could be a form of HPL. They asked for confirmation from the architect/developer or 
freeholder to provide a construction report detailing the building material used and that the 
cladding is of a non-combustible material and not HPL. They said they would be happy to 
review it if Cambridge were happy to accept all liability and over-rule the need for an EWS1.
Cambridge then responded to say they were not in a position to overrule the surveyor and 
were guided by their expertise  which isnt unreasonable. This eventually got accepted and 
Cambridge proceeded to send out the mortgage offer on 17 August 2021. I understand that 
Mr D and Mrs J said this fire safety report was available from the beginning of the process  
but the surveyor initially asked for an EWS1 form. 
Cambridge said they didnt hear anything from Mr D and Mrs J once the mortgage offer was 
issued so they contacted them on 30 September 2021 and Mr D replied on 1 October 2021 
saying they no longer wished to proceed. So Cambridge cancelled the application. The 
application was never declined by Cambridge, but they wanted to make sure the property 
was suitable security before they would lend. 
Mr D and Mrs J made comments around Cambridges accountability in terms of the third-
party surveyors they use to carry out their valuations. Cambridge, as is any lender, is entitled 
to decide which third party agent they use. The situation here is that Cambridge was entitled 
to rely on the information provided to them. I also note that Mr D and Mrs J made a separate 
complaint about the surveyors and their actions  and this wasnt upheld. Its not for us to tell 
Cambridge who they use. Our role is to ensure that Cambridge acted fairly and reasonably 
in the circumstances. 
But ultimately, I dont think Cambridge acted unreasonably here. They didnt have to grant 
mortgage applications, and where they lend money, they are entitled to satisfy themselves 
that the property is adequate security  including factoring fire safety risks. Cambridge is 
entitled to have a cautious approach. Some lenders have a lower risk appetite than others, 
and thats not unreasonable. In the end, Cambridge accepted the opinion of the valuer that 
an EWS1 form was needed before they could be sure the property was acceptable, and that 
wasnt an unfair position for them to take. I have looked at the timeline to decide if there were unreasonable delays which were caused 
by Cambridge and other than notifying Mr D and Mrs J in August that they were ready to go 
ahead with the mortgage offer  I cant agree that any other delays were caused by them. 
There were multiple exchanges between Cambridge and the surveyor in trying to get things 
moving which all stemmed from the EWS1.
Mr D and Mrs J argue that they missed out on the stamp duty holiday because of the delays. 
Ive not seen anything that suggests that Mr D and Mrs J were guaranteed that their 
mortgage would have completed by the end of the stamp duty holiday window on 30 June 
2021. 
The decision in principle which was sent to the broker had the following notice clearly visible:
due to unprecedented mortgage activity, we are not able to guarantee that this application 
will meet the stamp duty deadline of 30 June 2021.
The valuation was instructed by Cambridge on 29 April 2021. Cambridge sent us a screen 
shot that shows the valuer tried to contact Mr D and Mrs J on 14 May 2021 to book the 
valuation but didnt get an answer. They then managed to make contact on 17 May and the 
valuation was booked for 1 June 2021 which then brought up the issue with the EWS1.
There was never a guarantee that this mortgage would have completed before the deadline. 
There are a number of outside factors that could cause an application to be delayed such as 
valuation issues (as in this case), title issues etc, which would make it extremely difficult to 
suggest that Mr D and Mrs J would have completed on the property within the necessary 
timeframe to save on stamp duty. 
I note that Mr D and Mrs J dont believe that the shortage in surveyors can be linked to the 
delay in the valuation being carried out. Lenders and surveyors were extremely busy during 
this period and the pandemic slowed things down in most aspects. But surveyors were able 
to visit properties at this time to carry out surveys, however it was still a busy time following 
on from the pandemic. And Cambridge did instruct the valuation within a matter of days from 
the application being completed. 
I do agree about the one-month delay that was caused when Cambridge could have let Mr D 
and Mrs J know that they were able to proceed with the application after the fire safety report 
had been accepted, and I think the £150 the investigator has offered is fair in these 
circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mr D and Mrs J feel very strongly about this complaint and will be 
disappointed with my decision, however I wont be asking Cambridge to pay anything further.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this compliant and direct Cambridge Building Society 
to pay Mr D and Mrs J £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman