DRN-2715887
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Lloyds Bank PLC gave them incorrect information and then 
declined to extend the term of their interest only mortgage. They ask that Lloyds extends the 
term or pays compensation for their time and costs in re-mortgaging.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out a residential mortgage with Lloyds in 2008. In 2010 they switched to 
interest only payment terms and asked for consent to let out the property. 
The mortgage term was due to expire in early 2020. Mr A called Lloyds in March 2019 and 
was told he could extend the mortgage term if he called later in the year. When he called in 
October 2019 Lloyds said it wouldnt agree to extend the term while the property was let out. 
Lloyds said Mr and Mrs A should apply for a buy to let mortgage. 
Mr A says theyve been unable to get a buy to let mortgage as the balance owed is less than 
£25,000. He says Lloyds should extend the term or pay compensation for his time, fees and 
other costs in finding and taking out a buy to let mortgage.
Lloyds paid £400 compensation for giving Mr and Mrs A the wrong information. It didnt 
agree to extend the term.
Our investigator said £400 was reasonable compensation for the upset caused by Lloyds 
giving Mr A incorrect information. She said it was fair for Lloyds to decline to extend the 
mortgage term. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree. They said if Lloyds had given them correct information in March 
2019 theyd have taken out a buy to let mortgage while their balance was more than 
£25,000. Mr A said £400 doesnt cover their financial loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A have a residential mortgage. Theyve been letting the property, with Lloyds 
consent, since 2010.
Lloyds says it gives consent to let as a concession. Consent to let is intended for customers 
that let their property temporarily and intend to re-occupy it. Lloyds says if this isnt a 
customers intention, they should apply for a buy to let mortgage. It sent a copy of a letter 
sent to Mr and Mrs A in 2018 that said this. 
Mr and Mrs A made overpayments to their mortgage account. However, the term expired 
with an unpaid balance. Lloyds didnt agree to extend the term of their residential mortgage 
while the property was let out.
Lloyds says its end of term process is there to help customers who dont have means to 
repay their mortgage. It says Mr and Mrs A do have means to repay the mortgage. They 
have two properties and could sell the property they dont live in. Or Mr and Mrs A could take 
out a buy to let mortgage with another lender for £25,000 that allows overpayments, so they 
can reduce the balance quickly if they want to do so.
I think Lloyds acted in accordance with its own processes when it declined to extend the 
term of Mr and Mrs As mortgage. And I dont think this was unfair or unreasonable. While Mr 
and Mrs A prefer to retain their current mortgage, they do have options to repay it. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to extend the term of Mr 
and Mrs As mortgage.
Lloyds accepts it made an error. It should have told Mr and Mrs A when they first contacted it 
in March 2019 that it wouldnt extend the term of their mortgage while the property was let 
out. I need to consider what Lloyds should do, if anything, to put matters rights.
Mr A says he wasnt told thered be a mortgage review before Lloyds agreed an extension. 
However, he says he was told hed have to provide information to support his request, such 
as evidence of income and outgoings, and the application would take about two hours. I 
think, reasonably, hed have known Lloyds would review this information before a decision 
was made.
In any event, no review was carried out. When Mr A contacted Lloyds in October 2019 he 
was told it wouldnt extend the term. This was because the property was let out. This 
decision would have been the same if Mr and Mrs A had made an application for an 
extension in March 2019. 
Since March 2019 Mr and Mrs A made further overpayments, and their mortgage balance is 
below £25,000. They say the brokers they contacted expected them to pay a fee. And the 
high street lenders theyve approached directly lend a minimum of £25,000. I dont think this 
means Mr and Mrs A suffered a financial loss due to Lloyds error. 
If Mr and Mrs A do borrow £25,000 they can retain the surplus after repaying the mortgage, 
or use it to make overpayments if their new mortgage allows them to do so. They will pay 
less interest due to the lower mortgage balance until they re-mortgage. Mr and Mrs A can 
consider seeking advice from an independent financial adviser about their options.
Mr and Mrs A say there are costs involved in re-mortgaging, such as application fees and a 
higher interest rate than they have on their Lloyds mortgage. However, Lloyds error isnt the 
reason for them having to look for a buy to let mortgage. If Mr and Mrs A wanted to continue 
to let their property, they had to apply for a buy to let mortgage at some point. 
However, Mr and Mrs A were caused inconvenience by Lloyds error. They collected 
information to make an application to Lloyds for an extension. And, after being told this was 
a possibility, they must have been disappointed to be told it wasnt. Overall, I think £400 
compensation paid by Lloyds for the upset and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the compensation 
paid by Lloyds Bank PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman