DRN-4027527
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled and 
recorded a notification he made about an incident under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering his car.
In June 2022 he was involved in an incident when he collided with a third-party vehicle in 
front of him. He described the collision as a tap. Mr O was able to record the registration 
number of the third-party vehicle, but the driver didnt leave any other details.
He reported the incident to Admiral. 
Admiral recorded the incident on its system. It also shared details of it to a central database 
used by insurers across the marketplace to record details of incidents that may or may not 
have given rise to a claim.
Mr O didnt need to make a claim for his own damage.
Admiral told Mr O that it would leave the claim open in case the third party wanted to make a 
claim against his policy. It told him that it would leave the claim open for six months.
Mr O said the incident being left open would affect the renewal on his policy, which was due. 
He complained to Admiral. He was unhappy because:
He was told initially that the claim would be closed if Admiral didnt hear from the 
third-party. But later he was told Admiral would keep the claim open for six months.
Admiral used the word strike when talking about Mr Os No Claims Discount (NCD) 
which is a term he wasnt familiar with. 
His premium increased at renewal because of the claim being open and it will impact 
the price of his future policies.
His NCD reduced to 13 years when he was told it wouldnt be affected by the claim 
and should have been 15 years. 
He didnt think it was reasonable for Admiral to keep issuing hold letters to him 
without an explanation.
Admiral agreed it had made a mistake regarding Mr Os NCD. It upheld that part of his 
complaint and awarded him £50 compensation for it, plus £25 for its late response to his 
complaint.
Mr O remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He also complains about 
the record Admiral made on the central database.
Our investigator looked into Mr Os complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought that Admiral 
had made an error with his NCD, but it had acted fairly about that. She didnt think Admiral 
had acted unfairly with the rest of his complaint.
Mr O didnt agree with the view. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
It seems to me that Mr O feels hes been penalised by his honest actions in reporting the 
collision that took place in late June 2022. Its important that I point out that that in Mr Os 
policy wording there are several sections dealing with what he must do after a collision 
happens. One of those is:
If you or your vehicle are involved in any type of incident, regardless of fault, you 
must tell us about it within 48 hours
Failure to comply with the above could result in the claim being refused and/or your 
policy being cancelled.
So, Mr O should understand that he did comply with the terms of his policy by notifying 
Admiral of the collision. 
Keeping the claim open
Ive listened to the calls between Mr O and Admiral when he made the claim and about a 
week later when he asked about the claim still being open. The first conversation is quite 
difficult to hear clearly, but I agree that Mr O wasnt told about the claim being open for six 
months. It is clear to me that Mr O focuses on the fact that there is no claim being made 
under the policy. The call handler tells him the claim will be kept open, and Mr O then says 
he thinks a week is enough.
Its important that I say that insurers dont just ask for claims information, but any 
accidents, incidents, thefts, losses or claims (regardless of blame). Ive taken this wording 
from Admirals policy wording.
In the second call to Admiral, Mr O is then told the claim would be left open for six months 
and its clear hes unhappy about this because of the impact itll have on his premiums. 
A claimant may have up to six years to bring a claim, but insurers will also have an 
understanding of when a claim is likely to be brought in incidents like the one Mr O had. 
They will leave the claim open on their system ready for the third-party to take action. 
For an incident like the one Mr O has described, I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer 
to do this and the six-month approach mentioned by Admiral is common across the 
insurance industry.
Admiral ultimately closed the claim earlier than six months, and it explained why itd done 
this to Mr O:We do review files earlier and see if we can close the case, as such on this incident, 
we have closed your file as no claim or contact has been received from the third-
party or their insurers.
Mr O has also complained about Admiral recording this on the central database Ive 
mentioned earlier. Admiral, in common with other insurers, shares data in this way. It has 
said it recorded Mr Os incident as notification only. I think thats an accurate record of the 
situation. Mr O hasnt made a claim, and the third party hasnt. But an incident clearly took 
place and I think Admiral has fairly recorded it, so Im not going to ask Admiral to change it.
In later correspondence Mr O has asked that his record on the database is changed to a 
different wording. This isnt something Im able to comment on as this service doesnt have 
authority over the database.
Strike wording and NCD
I can see that Admiral has responded to Mr Os complaint about the use of the word strike. 
When put into context, which Admiral does on its website, I think the word is clearer:
How does my No Claims Bonus protection work?
If this is your first claim, you will receive one strike against your No Claims Bonus 
protection.
I can also see that Admiral wrote to Mr O after he told it about the incident, and the letter he 
was sent uses the phrase Ive included above. 
The use of the word is common and only needs a simple explanation that the strike is 
against the protected element of his NCD. I dont think Admirals use of it is unfair. 
I can see that Mr O has said that he thinks he will lose his NCD entirely if he makes another 
claim before 2025. Thats not my understanding of how NCD protection works and Id ask 
that he clarifies that with his current insurer. Typically, the protection stays in place for two 
claims in three years, and if a third claim happens then the NCD is reduced in steps. 
Admirals letter to Mr O helps explain how Admiral apply its NCD protection and Id ask him 
to review it.
Admiral has already agreed with Mr O that it made a mistake in applying his NCD at 
renewal. I agree that it did make a mistake, and I think the impact of it is small. Admiral has 
paid Mr O £50 compensation for its error and I think this amount is fair and in line with this 
services recommendations. 
Renewal pricing
Mr O has also complained about the impact of him notifying Admiral about the collision on 
his renewal premium, and on future policies he buys. Its important that I say its not the role 
of this service to tell insurers what to charge for a particular driver or policy. Insurers make 
commercial decisions about what they will charge and in Mr Os case, because he reported 
an incident shortly before his policy renewal, Admiral will have re-assessed his policy and 
provided him with a revised price which was higher. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to do this and Im not going to ask it to do more.
Other insurers will use the information Admiral has added to the central database in their assessment of Mr O when he approaches them for a quotation in future. Given that Ive said 
above that I think Admirals recording of the incident was fair, I cant ask Admiral to do 
anything differently. 
The insurers Mr O uses in future will make their own assessments, so Im not able to make a 
decision about those.
Hold letters
I can see from the file that Admiral sent correspondence to Mr O about the status of his 
complaint, which he found vague. These letters relate to Admirals handling of his complaint, 
which isnt a regulated activity. So Im not able to comments on the letters here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman