DRN-4398942
The complaint
Mr W complains about Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) and 
the settlement fee they are asking him to pay following a successful Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI).
What happened
In early August 2019, Mr W signed a Letter of Authority (LOA) instructing FTR to pursue a 
claim for mis-sold PPI on his behalf against his former credit card provider, who Ill refer to 
as M. Its important to note that by this time, M were no longer trading. But its parent 
company replied on its behalf, and for ease of reference I will refer to this parent company as 
M as well.
FTR contacted M querying whether Mr Ws accounts held PPI. And it was confirmed that his 
credit card had. So, in September 2019, FTR submitted a letter of claim with a supporting 
PPI questionnaire on Mr Ws behalf.
M acknowledged this submission, writing to both FTR and Mr W directly in September and 
October 2019. And in June 2020, M paid Mr W a total settlement of £1131.15. FTR were 
made aware of this by spreadsheet in September 2020, and they proceeded to invoice Mr W 
for their settlement fee, in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr W held. 
But Mr W was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr W didnt think FTR were fair to chase him for a fee, as he felt hed liaised directly with M 
to receive his PPI payment, as M had stated to FTR that there was no PPI when the claim 
was first made. And he explained M had told him directly that they didnt deal with 
companies such as FTR. So, Mr W wanted FTR to waive the £271.48 fee he was being 
asked for.
FTR responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the work they completed 
had led directly to the PPI refund Mr W received. So, they thought they were fair when 
asking for their fee. They acknowledged it had taken them some time to invoice Mr W, but 
they thought this was the fault of M who hadnt made them aware of the offer at the same 
time as Mr W. So, FTR didnt think they needed to do anything more and confirmed the fee 
remained payable. Mr W remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint 
to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied that FTR 
had submitted the claim that led to Mr Ws PPI refund, and that they had authority from Mr W 
to do so. Because of this, they thought FTR were fair to invoice Mr W for their settlement fee, 
and they didnt think FTR needed to do anything more
Mr W didnt agree. And he provided several reasons explaining why, which included and are 
not limited to, his maintained belief that M hadnt found any PPI from FTRs initial 
submission. And that M had told him specifically that they didnt work with companies such 
as FTR, which he felt supported his belief that it was his involvement solely that led to the 
refund he received. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. I dont dispute Mr Ws 
testimony that he liaised with M directly during the PPI claim process. So, I can understand 
why he feels he completed the work necessary to secure the refund he received. And 
because of this, when Mr W received an invoice from FTR some time later asking for a 
settlement fee calculated from this refund, I can understand why hed feel this was unfair and 
dispute it.
But for me to say FTR should waive this fee, or do something else, I first need to be satisfied 
theyve done something wrong when invoicing Mr W. So, Id need to be satisfied that FTR 
didnt have authority to pursue the claim on Mr Ws behalf, and that there was no valid 
agreement in place that allowed them to charge Mr W a fee. Or, if I think they did have 
authority, Id need to be satisfied they completed no work of value towards the claim. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the LOA Mr W signed in August 2019. And by signing this LOA, I think Mr W gave 
FTR authority to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI against M, and that he agreed to be bound 
by the accompanying agreement and its terms and conditions.
Ive seen these terms and conditions, and they explain that FTR would be providing Mr W 
with Claims Services. And they defined these Claims Services to be conducting a PPI 
check to ascertain if you have/had PPI with each company you tell us you have dealt with 
and/or preparing and submitting your claims to/with the company, in the event that FTR 
locate PPI.
In this situation, I can see that in early September 2019, M wrote to both FTR and Mr W 
confirming that, following FTRs PPI check, they had identified an account with PPI attached 
to it. And, that they had logged the PPI query as a complaint that they would investigate. 
Specifically, in the letter to FTR, M refer to Mr W as Your client. So, Im satisfied M became 
aware of Mr Ws claim through FTRs actions.
Ive then seen in late September, FTR submitted a full letter of claim, with a supporting PPI 
questionnaire, to M. And Ive seen M wrote to both FTR and Mr W again after this 
submission, explaining they were continuing with their investigation. Again, in the letter to 
FTR, M refer to Mr W as FTRs client.
So, because of the above, Im satisfied that FTR completed the claims services they stated 
they would provide in the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr W held.
And Ive seen that Mr Ws PPI refund was paid under the same reference M provided on 
their correspondence to Mr W and FTR. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume the 
payment Mr W received originated from the claim FTR submitted on his behalf.
In this situation, the terms and conditions explain that where a claim is successful, FTR will charge a contingency fee representing no more than 24% inc. VAT in respect of any 
redress/compensation/good will payment recovered on your behalf. And this is what they 
have done here. So, I dont think I can say FTR acted outside of the agreement Mr W 
entered into when invoicing him, once theyd been made aware by M that a PPI refund had 
been provided.
While I recognise this invoice came some time after Mr W received his refund, I can see M 
made FTR aware of the refund some months after the payment had been made. This was 
the decision of M, and not FTR and so, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold FTR 
responsible for this.
I also note that within the terms and conditions Mr W entered into, it states The company 
may contact you directly and you will inform FTR promptly of this and any relevant matters 
affecting your claim(s). And I think its fair for me to say that receiving a PPI refund from M 
would be deemed a relevant matter. I also think this includes any direct communication Mr 
W had with M during the claim process. While I dont dispute Mr W most likely did speak to 
M directly during this time, I think Mr W shouldve been reasonably aware he had instructed 
FTR to undertake this work. And, if he didnt want to do this work himself, I think he 
shouldve been aware he was able to contact FTR and ask them to do this for him. But I 
cant see that he did.
And crucially, the agreement Mr W entered into with FTR was on a no win no fee basis, 
meaning any payment was based on the refund he received, rather than the amount of work 
FTR completed. So, I dont think Mr W liaising with M directly means FTR shouldnt be able 
to claim the fee they are entitled to as set out within the agreement.
So, because of all the above, I dont think I can say FTR have acted unfairly on this occasion 
and because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this is unlikely to be the outcome Mr W was hoping for. And I recognise this 
wont fall in line with his belief that M told him directly they didnt work with companies like 
FTR. But crucially, whether or not M did say this, Ive seen they corresponded with FTR 
throughout the claim process, which resulted in them making FTR aware of the payment Mr 
W received. Had M had a set process of not working with companies such as FTR, I 
wouldnt have expected them to take this action. So, this has impacted the decision Ive 
reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Quickly Finance 
Limited  trading as Fast Track Reclaim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman