DRN-4219631
The complaint
Miss B complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt respond appropriately when she was 
subject to an incident in branch.
What happened
When in branch using an ATM a third party attempted to take Miss Bs card. She was 
shocked and distressed at the time and later complained to the bank. She was unhappy with 
the staffs response on the day and the security measures in branch. She thought there 
should be stronger security measures.
In the final response (FRL) to Miss Bs Lloyds didnt uphold that part of her complaint but 
did accept it couldve responded sooner to her complaint and for these failings it offered her 
£50 compensation. Lloyds also acknowledge the impact the event had on Miss B and 
offered to signpost her to organisations and with help managing her account going forward if 
she needed that.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Lloyds had acted fairly 
and reasonably and wasnt going to ask them to take any further action. 
Miss B asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. She found the investigators response 
hurtful and thought it was a cover up. Miss B said the bank had lied and had never offered 
her any help at the time. She also reiterated the impact the incident had on her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss B feels strongly about this and I appreciate why. But having reviewed all the 
evidence Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
The experience Miss B describes would undoubtedly have been an unpleasant one.  And Im 
sorry to learn of the impact its had on her. But Lloyds isnt responsible for the unlawful 
actions of a third party so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to find them accountable 
here.
Its a matter for a bank to decide on whats an appropriate level of security for customers 
using the branch. Lloyds have explained incidents such as this one are rare. So, they 
wouldnt agree a security guard granting entry at the door or the entry bell as Miss B 
suggested was necessary. I dont think thats unreasonable.
Ive gone on to look at Lloyds response to the incident. Theres no CCTV footage of the 
incident so I cant know what happened and what the staff response looked like. But, even if 
I accept it was deficient in the way Miss B describes, Lloyds have apologised - thats clear 
from the FRL - and offered to signpost her to organisations that might help which is also set 
out in both the FRL and repeated in correspondence with this service. And, in respect of the 
way her complaint was handled, I think the offer of £50 compensation for the failings Lloyds 
accept are a reasonable response and the sort of award Id have made had it not been 
offered.
Given those findings, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Lloyds to do anything 
further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman