DRN-3031416
complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out with a credit card 
account. The type of account in question was a dual Visa / Mastercard one, and my 
experience of these is that they were set up at the same time, during the same sale, using 
one application form. The paperwork Ive seen confirms this so Ill therefore address both 
cards in this decision as part of the same issue.
Mr T says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Lloydss subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission and decided Lloyds should have disclosed some of 
the commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances and within the rules. 
did Mr T agree to the PPI?
From the application form Lloyds has still available, we know the dual account started in 
1994. I note there was a section on this which invited the applicant to choose if they did  or 
didnt  want PPI with their new account. Mr T ticked the option to have PPI and left the no 
option empty. So I think this shows he wanted to buy the policy and he consented to it.
was the PPI suitable for Mr T?
Lloyds probably recommended the PPI to Mr T as part of an advised sale so it had to check 
that the PPI was right for him. In my view, the evidence about Mr Ts circumstances at the 
time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, 
he was eligible for the cover and the price of the policy appears to have been affordable for 
him. I see Mr T says he already had some sickness protection with his job and his 
representative says he also had death in service and redundancy pay. Ive considered these 
things, but Im afraid they dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable for him. If 
successfully claimed on the PPI would have helped in the event of something unexpected 
happening, such as losing his job or being unable to work. No evidence was provided of him 
having death in service protection, although the PPI does cover different and wider 
eventualities to this and his redundancy protection; in short, these different insurances dont 
conflict with each other.
I think the policy was suitable for him.
was Mr T told enough?
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been, particularly relating to certain policy limitations and exclusions. But in this case, 
these related largely to mental health exclusions, and also to back pain, where more 
evidence had to be provided for a successful claim. Its possible more should have been 
done to make these rules clear. However, Mr T wasnt affected by these and Ive not been 
provided with any evidence that suggests he would have considered shortcomings about 
these rules such that he would have changed his mind. He said he didnt have any health 
problems when he bought the cover, so he wasnt affected by any of the general rules about 
existing illnesses. His representative said he was in a high risk occupation. However, Im 
afraid I dont agree with this. No context was placed on this by his representative and I cant 
see that Mr Ts occupation contained any obvious risks or that it made the PPI unsuitable.
I therefore dont think Mr T would have declined the cover even if Lloyds could have done a 
better job at explaining some things. In all other aspects, what he was sold was very close to 
what I think he expected from the cover.
Mr Ts representative raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it says 
apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these 
policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant 
Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought about these and how they might apply in Mr Ts particular case. But these points 
dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received in 
relation to one of the cards (the other falls outside the times where these rules apply). And I 
think that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for this unfairness 
caused on one card is fair. This has previously been comprehensively explained by our 
adjudicator. 
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr T about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in relation to 
the Mastercard. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr T was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr T because it failed to 
disclose some of the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ts representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr T should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr T about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr T wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a 
refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipand
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr T in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ts representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate the said compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mr T paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness because it leaves Mr T with the policy Ive concluded 
above he would still have taken out if Lloyds had done everything it should have done  but 
with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs as Ive described 
above (plus associated interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is 
fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ts 
complaint or make any award in favour of him for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr T an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the Mastercard policy cost as Ive explained above (plus associated 
interest where applicable). I understand this money has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman