DRN-3443361
The complaint
Mr R complains about Santander UK Plc and their refusal to recall and refund a payment he 
made to a closed account.
What happened
On 30 October 2021, Mr R made a payment of £5 to a friends account. But Mr R was made 
aware the account hed made the payment to had been closed. So, on 6 November, he 
called Santander to question whether this payment could be recalled. Santander advised 
that it couldnt, as there was a minimum payment amount required to qualify for recall. Mr R 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
Mr R didnt think Santander made it reasonably clear that there was a limit on payment 
amounts that could be recalled. So, he didnt think Santander acted fairly when refusing his 
recall request. Mr R was also unhappy that, when he spoke to Santanders complaint 
department, they provided differing reasons as to why the recall couldnt be processed. So, 
Mr R wanted Santander to compensate him £30 to recognise the time hed spent pursuing 
his complaint, and for the limit on recalls to be published on their website.
Santander responded and didnt agree. They didnt think theyd made an error when 
processing the payment, as it had been paid to the correct account details. And they didnt 
think they were unfair to refuse Mr Rs recall request as the payment fell below the minimum 
payment limit of £25 to qualify. Santander also explained even if the payment was for a 
larger amount, and did qualify, the recall wouldnt have been processed as Mr R was in 
contact with the recipient. So, Santander didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr R 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the 
frustration Mr R wouldve been caused by the situation. But they didnt think Santander had 
acted unfairly. They explained theyd seen evidence from Santanders internal system that 
confirmed the minimum payment limit for recalls was £25. So, as Mr Rs payment was below 
this amount, they didnt think Santander had been unreasonable when not attempting a 
recall. Our investigator also explained our service is unable to direct businesses such as 
Santander to publish specific information, as this decision falls under the businesses 
commercial processes which were unable to comment upon. So, they didnt think Santander 
needed to do anything more. Mr R didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr R. I dont dispute Mr Rs 
testimony which states his friend didnt receive the £5 payment he made. So, I understand 
why Mr R would want this payment to be recalled, as it wasnt able to be used for its 
intended purpose. Because of this, I can appreciate Mr Rs frustration when he discovered 
he was unable to recall the payment and why hed deem this to be unfair, considering hed 
not been aware of a minimum payment limit beforehand. 
But for me to say Santander should compensate Mr R, Id first need to be satisfied theyve 
done something wrong. So, Id need see that Santander failed to work within their own 
business processes when declining Mr Rs recall request. Or, if I think they did work within 
these, that it was unfair of Santander to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Ive first thought about the type of payment Mr R made. Mr R has confirmed the £5 payment 
was made using the correct account number and sort code. So, the £5 was sent to the 
account Mr R intended. Because of this, I think its fair to categorise this as an authorised 
transaction. But Mr R has said his friend notified him that the account had been closed, so 
they were unable to access the funds Mr R sent.
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), explain that a bank must 
refund a customer if the payment was unauthorised. This wasnt the case in this situation. 
So, I dont think this rule applies.
Instead, I think its fair to categorise the payment as a payment made in error as although it 
was made to the correct account, this account was closed. And I dont think Mr R wouldve 
made this payment if hed known this. In this situation, The FCA website explains Contact 
your bank immediately if you have made a payment in error. Approaches to recovering 
money may vary between banks and you may be charged. I think this makes it reasonably 
clear that banks have the autonomy to set their own approaches to refunds and recalls in 
this situation.
And Ive seen Santanders internal system, which states that the payment amount needs to 
be £25 or more for a recovery to be processed. So, as Mr Rs payment was for less than this 
amount, I cant say Santander failed to act within their own process when declining Mr Rs 
recall request. Nor do I think I can say Santander acted unfairly, as Santander are entitled to 
set their own approach, and therefore limit, for this kind of request.
I appreciate Mr R wont agree with this. And I recognise his comments regarding 
Santanders failure to make this limit visible for their customers. But our service is unable to 
comment on a business process or approach, as this falls under the role of the FCA who set 
the regulatory rules and guidelines. And this includes a businesss decision on whether to 
publish internal approaches and processes or not.
I also recognise Santander may have given alternate reasons as to why the payment 
couldnt be recalled and why this wouldve confused Mr R. But I think Santander provided 
alternate reasons to support their initial refusal as, even if Mr Rs payment had been for 
more than £25, Santander have explained that the payment was an authorised one. And as 
Mr R confirmed the payment was made to a friend, Santander assumed Mr R was in contact 
with the recipient and so, a recall still wouldnt have been processed within their approach. 
So, I cant say Santander providing differing reasons means theyve done anything wrong 
here.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for. And I appreciate it leaves Mr R 
without the £5 he paid to a closed account. But as Ive explained above, I dont think this 
payment was made due to an error by Santander. Nor do I think theyve acted unfairly when not attempting a recall of the payment. So, I dont think Santander need to do anything more 
on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman