DRN-2765778
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited cancelled his direct debit for his 
motor insurance policy premium payments and this led to a negative marker on his credit 
record. He wants it to remove the marker and compensate him for his subsequent losses. 
What happened
Admiral told Mr M that he no longer had a live instruction for his direct debit following a 
missed payment. Mr M contacted Admiral and he was told that the direct debit had been 
cancelled. The agent told Mr M that Admiral couldnt so this. It said it would have been done 
by Mr M or his bank. Mr Ms bank said the direct debit was still active. Mr M was unhappy 
because a missed payment had led to a negative entry on his credit record that led to his 
mortgage application being declined.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
wasnt evidence that Admiral had cancelled the direct debit. And so she couldnt hold it 
responsible for the declined mortgage application. 
Mr M replied providing evidence that the direct debit was still live, but he thought Admiral 
hadnt collected the payments. He thought there may have been a process error when he 
changed his policy that caused the problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated that he cant establish how his direct debits came 
to be not taken by Admiral. All parties, Mr M, his bank, and Admiral say they didnt cancel 
the direct debit. And I think Admiral wouldnt be able to do this in any case due to data 
protection rules. 
Mr M provided a screenshot showing that the direct debit was active in May 2020 and again 
in December 2020, after he had reinstated it in July 2020. I think this shows that the direct 
debit wasnt active in the intervening period between May and July 2020. The direct debit to 
Admiral isnt included in the list of cancelled direct debits Mr M has provided. So I think this 
could mean that the payment wasnt taken by Admiral.
We asked Admiral to explain why it hadnt collected the direct debits for May 2020 and June 
2020. It said when it tried to take payment in May 2020, Mr Ms bank told it the direct debit 
mandate had been cancelled. The bank didnt provide any further information. Admiral said it 
wasnt in its interests to cancel the direct debit and so not collect Mr Ms payments. 
I can see that Admiral sent Mr M letters and emails in May, June and July 2020 to say that 
the mandate had been cancelled. Mr M called it in July 2020 to set up a new mandate. 
Admiral said that its system wouldnt allow this if the previous mandate was still active. 
Mr M thought a change hed made may have led to cancellation. But this change to his 
address was in June 2020, after Admiral had already told him that the live mandate had 
been cancelled. So I cant say that this change caused a process error that stopped Admiral 
from collecting his direct debit. 
So I cant see any evidence that Admiral cancelled Mr Ms direct debit or that it made an 
error in collecting his missed payments. I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration, but I cant hold 
Admiral responsible for the consequences the missed payment had on his credit report.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman