DRN-2149594
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander didnt credit £160 to her account which she says she 
deposited in a local branch.
What happened
Ms M has a current account with Santander. 
On the 7 June 2019 Ms M visited a Santander branch and attempted to deposit funds into 
her Santander account. She says on attempting to deposit £425, the machine had an error 
and retained £160 of her cash. Ms M then visited the counter and deposited the remainder of 
her funds totalling £265.
 
Ms M complained to Santander and asked for the £160 to be credited to her account. 
Santander looked into Ms Ms complaint and said the machine balanced and there wasnt a 
£160 surplus in the machine. Because of this they didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Ms M wasnt happy with Santanders response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ms complaint, and thought her account of events 
was plausible. He explained the cash deposit machine had shown two error messages when 
Ms M attempted her deposit, and he was persuaded there was a high chance £160 was 
retained by the machine. He asked Santander to refund £160 to Ms M and pay her 8% 
interest.
 
Santander didnt agree. In summary they said the machine balanced and didnt show any 
errors had occurred up until the 18 June 2019. They also thought Ms Ms account of events 
had been inconsistent.
 
On reviewing Ms Ms case, I came to a different conclusion to our investigator. I issued my 
Provisional Decision asking Ms M and Santander to respond with further comments. 
Santander accepted by Provisional Decision but Ms M didnt. In summary Ms M said:
- On the day of the deposit I was told that particular machine had a history of jamming 
and its possible that the machine didnt keep an accurate record of the surplus. 
- The machine had two errors recorded at the time she made her deposit but its not 
clear what these were for.
- She saw that the machine wasnt functioning properly at the time  and the message 
on screen said the full amount had been returned. But she only received £190 with 
£255 remaining. If there was a fault with the machine then its understandable the 
surplus wouldnt be recorded. 
- She didnt try to deposit all of the £425 and had £70 remaining that wasnt deposited 
in the machine. As she managed to retrieve £195 she had £265 in total, and £160 
had been retained by the machine. 
- On contacting the service she advised it was £450 she tried to deposit as she didnt 
have her files to hand. 
- Shed recently started an event business, with her first event taking place around ten 
days before the deposit. Ms M explained she bought some products for £405, and on 
selling made a cash profit of £425.
As Ms M didnt accept my Provisional Decision Ive reconsidered all the evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive not changed the outcome from my Provisional Decision. In my 
Provisional Decision I said:
Santander have provided evidence to show there were no problems reported with the
machine on the 6 June 2019 and theres no indication the machine was tampered with.
Theyve also provided evidence to show that the machine balanced  meaning there werent
any surplus funds identified in the cash deposit machine  and a copy of the journal role
which gives a breakdown as to the transactions which took place before and after Ms Ms.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to decline Ms Ms
refund. This is because:
-Santander have evidenced that the ATM cash machine balanced during the period
Ms M's transaction took place. If Ms Ms funds were retained Id have expected a 
£160 surplus. Theyve also explained if there was any surplus on the 7 June 2019 
this would have been recorded in branch records  but theres no record of any 
surplus.
-There were two error messages recorded whilst Ms M made her deposits  but the 
value of these two transactions were £100 and £205  meaning neither were over the 
amount Ms M later successfully deposited. I also don't think that the errors recorded 
indicate the machine wasnt functioning properly.
-Ms Ms account of events has been inconsistent  on first contacting our service she 
explained that shed attempted to deposit approximately £255 but on being contacted 
by our investigator for clarification she provided email notes, from her complaint with 
Santander, which said shed only managed to deposit £195 and there was a 
discrepancy of £160. When our investigator contacted Ms M for a second time Ms M 
said shed remembered trying to deposit £425 but only managed to deposit £265 
over the counter.
-Although Ms M was asked by our investigator to provide evidence of where the £425 
was originally from, shes not been able to do so.
In response to my Provisional Decision Ms M said there were two error messages recorded 
on the machine at the time, but it isnt clear what they were for. Shed been informed the 
machine wasnt working properly and if the machine was malfunctioning then it likely 
wouldnt record a surplus. 
Ive thought about Ms Ms points here. And I understand why she believes that the two error 
messages are an indication that the machine was malfunctioning. I understand Ms M says 
she was informed the machine was jamming when money was being deposited, and this 
might be what led to the errors. But, even if the machine was jamming or causing an error 
when money was being deposited I need to be satisfied that there was a surplus of £160 in 
the machine when it was balanced  which as Ive explained above isnt the case. I 
understand that the balancing of the machine is completed manually, for this reason I dont 
think its likely a machine error could cause the surplus not to be recorded accurately. Ms M has provided an explanation of where the £425 came from, and evidence of what she 
purchased to make the profit. I think its quite likely Ms M did sell the products shes referring 
to, and did make a profit of around £425. But, for me to hold Santander liable for the missing 
funds I need to be satisfied on balance that the evidence shows on the day of the deposit 
£160 was retained by the machine. And for the reasons Ive explained above Im not 
satisfied this is the case. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Ms M but Im not asking Santander to do anything 
further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman