DRN-2733641
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) failed to compensate her for 
breach of contract and/or misrepresentation she suffered in respect of a holiday contract,
which she paid for using her TPF credit card. She brings her complaint under section 75 of
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In June 2018, Mrs R entered into a contract with a holiday company Ill call H for a package
holiday for herself and her family. The cost of the holiday was £6,699 which she paid for
using her TPF credit card.
On her return from the holiday, Mrs R complained to H. In summary, she said
changes made to the first accommodation she had booked were unsatisfactory in 
standard and location;
the remaining accommodation wasnt of a reasonable standard;
she was unhappy with the way H dealt with the situation when she complained;
transfers between the two sets of accommodation were poor quality; and
there were issues with their flights.
Mrs R wasnt happy with the redress H offered, and agreed to her complaint being referred
to an independent industry arbitration process operated by ABTA. She assessed the amount
of her claim at £4,100.
The arbitrator found some parts of Mrs Rs claim proved, but not others. He accepted there
had been a breach of contract to the extent of the parts proved. He awarded Mrs R a total of
£420 in respect of her claims, and directed that the arbitration fee of £108 she had paid be
refunded to her. These amounts have been paid to Mrs R.
Mrs R was still aggrieved and complained to TPF under section 75. TPF didnt accept her
complaint. It said the changes to the accommodation were allowed under the booking terms,
and it couldnt consider the standard of the remaining accommodation under section 75. So
Mrs R complained to us.
Our investigators view
Initially our investigator thought there were breaches of contract in respect of the changes to
the first accommodation, the standard of the remaining accommodation, and the other
issues, for which TPF was responsible under section 75. He assessed fair compensation for
these at £1,500, less the amount awarded by the ABTA arbitrator.
TPF didnt agree. It pointed out that the ABTA arbitrator had made an award which was
legally binding on H and Mrs R of £420. Under section 75 TPF was equally liable with H for
breaches of contract/misrepresentation. However, the investigators proposal would make
TPF liable for a greater amount than H, which it didnt think was envisaged by section 75.
On further consideration, the investigator pointed to a provision in one of the Rules under
which this service operates, and by which we are legally bound  DISP 3.3.4A  which says:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service
on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman considers that:

the subject matter of the complaint has been dealt with, or is being dealt with, by a 
comparable ADR entity;
As the subject matter of Mrs Rs complaint had already been considered by a comparable
ADR entity  the ABTA arbitrator  the investigator said we shouldnt have started
investigating this complaint. So it wasnt appropriate for us to consider the merits of the
complaint further.
Mrs R responded to say, in summary, that:
this complaint was against TPF as finance provider whereas, as the investigator 
pointed out at the outset, her arbitration complaint was against the merchant  H;
TPF was aware of the previous arbitration. So why did it recommend that she refer 
her complaint to this service if it was going to raise the arbitration as grounds for 
objection;
grounds for dismissal should have been raised before our investigation started; and
the investigator had agreed with the arbitrator that there had been a breach of 
contract, and he thought compensation of £1,500 was fair. So TPF should pay this 
sum under section 75;
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to Mrs R and to TPF on 25 February 2021. In it I said that I 
sympathised with Mrs R in that the issue of the previous arbitration as an impediment to this 
complaint was raised some time after we had started investigating the complaint, and after 
the investigator had indicated that he was sympathetic to her complaint.
To avoid this situation arising, our Rules about dismissal provided that if there was to be a
dismissal it must take place within a short time after we had notified both parties that we had 
enough information to begin our investigation.
The investigator provided this notification on 24 March 2020. When on 3 July 2020 he said
he was recommending the complaint be dismissed under Rule DISP 3.3.4A, it was too late
to do so. So because it was too late to do so, I said that I wouldnt be dismissing this 
complaint under Rule DISP 3.3.4A. Instead I had considered the merits of Mrs Rs complaint 
against TPF, taking into account all that she and TPF have said and provided.
In passing, I made it clear that no blame attached to TPF for recommending that Mrs R bring 
a complaint to this service in the knowledge that there was an existing arbitration by the 
ABTA arbitration service. When a finance provider rejected a complaint by a consumer, it 
had a legal obligation to make the consumer aware they could complain to us about this. It 
wasnt for the finance provider to prejudge the outcome of any such complaint.
I said it was important to say that when we considered a complaint involving section 75, it 
was only the conduct of the finance provider that fell within our jurisdiction; the merchant 
wasnt subject to our jurisdiction. We looked to see that the finance provider had treated the 
consumer fairly and reasonably, bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case.We might decide that on the facts of the case the merchant had a legal liability for a breach 
of contract which it hadnt fulfilled, and it was fair and reasonable that because of its equal 
liability under section 75 the finance provider should make this good to the consumer. Under 
section 75, the finance provider then had a statutory right of indemnity from the merchant.
I said that in this case Mrs R and H had agreed to the arbitration of their dispute. The ABTA 
Arbitration Rules 2018 provided:
Rule 1.2    Awards made under the Scheme are final and binding on all parties, though any
party has the right to seek leave to appeal in the courts or to use [ABTAs stage 2 arbitration
process]
Neither Mrs R nor H had appealed to the courts, or used ABTAs stage 2 arbitration process. 
The arbitrators award was duly paid in full to Mrs R. So as between Mrs R and H the issues
Mrs R complained about had been decided and couldnt be reopened.
Under section 75, TPF had the same liability to Mrs R in breach of contract or 
misrepresentation as H  no more, no less. Given that the ABTA arbitration had finally
decided the extent of that liability, and it had been fully discharged, I couldnt fairly require 
TPF to pay anything more to Mrs R in respect of her contract with H.
I said that subject to any further comments and evidence I received either from TPF or from 
Mrs R, I didnt intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
TPF said it accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs R responded to say, in summary, that:
she questioned the fairness and process of the ABTA arbitration;
she questioned how the arbitrator and the investigator could have come up with a 
different compensation figure based on the same evidence;
the compensation figure the investigator thought was fair should apply in this 
complaint against TPF under section 75; and
she was advised to bring this complaint, and then told we couldnt consider it 
because of the previous arbitration. This was unfair and inconsistent, and left the 
consumer unsupported.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my view remains as set out in my provisional decision.
I understand that Mrs R is unhappy with the outcome of the ABTA arbitration and its 
processes, which is why she decided to complain to TPF under section 75, and then to us. 
However, I cant comment on the ABTA arbitration, as this isnt something thats within the 
jurisdiction of this service.Any view an investigator expresses during a complaint to this service is a recommendation. 
If, as in this case, it isnt accepted by both parties, the complaint is passed to an ombudsman 
who then considers the complaint afresh and issues a final decision.
I explained in my provisional decision that the ABTA arbitration had finally decided the legal 
liability between Mrs R and H, and this had been fully discharged by the payment H made to 
Mrs R. As TPFs liability to Mrs R under section 75 is the same as Hs, I cant fairly require 
TPF to pay anything more to Mrs R.
I also explained why TPF wasnt at fault in telling Mr R she had a right to bring a complaint to 
us. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman