DRN-2357900
The complaint
Mr A complained because The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, trading as NatWest, refused to 
refund him for transactions which he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 2 April 2020, Mr A completed an online application to switch his current account to 
NatWest from another bank. NatWest posted Mr As new PIN the next day, and his new card 
on 6 April. 
On 8 April, there was a balance enquiry on the account, and the next day £35 cash was paid 
in at a post office. Over the next few days, two cash machine withdrawals and five chip and 
PIN withdrawals debited the account. There were also some declined transactions.
Mr A said that by 12 April he hadnt received his NatWest card or PIN. Hed been living with 
his mother until September the previous year, and he realised he hadnt told his previous 
bank that hed moved. He asked his mother if shed received the card or PIN and she hadnt. 
Mr A said he then checked his online banking and saw the transactions which had taken 
place on the new account. He contacted NatWest and said he hadnt carried out the cash 
credit, cash machine withdrawals, chip and PIN withdrawals, or cash machine balance 
checks.
NatWest didnt agree with Mr A that the transactions had been fraudulent. In its final 
response letter, it said Mr A had arranged for the debit card to go to his mothers address, 
and by doing so he hadnt kept his account secure. It said it had investigated what Mr A had 
said, and didnt uphold his complaint that the transactions had been fraudulent. 
NatWest also took the decision to close his account under the terms and conditions of the 
account. It told Mr A that he was £410.02 overdrawn and in order to prevent default markers 
being put on his credit file, he would need to pay this in full at any branch. If Mr A didnt pay, 
it would be passed to a credit agency who would contact Mr A direct for payment.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said he could prove hed been at a 
sports ground on 8 April, when the first balance enquiry had been made. He said it had put 
him under immense unnecessary stress and it was disgraceful that a new customer could be 
treated like that. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. She said the card and PIN had been sent 
out separately in plain envelopes. If an unknown third party had intercepted these at Mr As 
mothers address, theyd have had to do so twice, and it was also unlikely that an unknown 
third party would have been able to guess what the envelopes contained. And she couldnt 
see how an unknown third party would have been able to make the transactions. She also 
said she couldnt see why a third party would have paid in the £35 cash. 
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision. He said it was obvious that 
fraudsters had paid £35 into the account to get the balance positive, and had then withdrawn 
some of it to check the card was working. He explained that if £1 is in an account, it can be 
used for Pay at Pump petrol fraud, because the debit of fuel is taken later, after the initial 
authorisation check at the pump. Mr A said he hadnt stolen fuel on an account in his name. 
He said hed seen recent television programmes about these matters, and couldnt believe 
hed been made to feel like a criminal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the relevant regulations say
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in April 2020 are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, NatWest) 
must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, the genuine 
card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed payments were 
authenticated.
The regulations say that its then necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
Who authorised the transactions
Mr A said that he didnt receive the card or PIN. The account which Mr A switched from his 
previous bank to NatWest in April 2020 had Mr As mothers address on it, even though Mr A 
had moved out the previous September. Mr A sent us a photo of his mothers letterbox. This 
shows a standard letterbox for a self-contained property, where mail pushed through the 
letterbox would go inside the property. Mr A said his mother lived alone. 
NatWest sent the card and PIN separately, on different days, in plain envelopes. So if an 
unauthorised third party had somehow obtained these from inside Mr As mothers house, 
theyd first have to have known they were expected. But Mr A said he didnt tell anyone he 
was expecting the new card and PIN.
. 
And anyone who stole the card and PIN envelopes from inside Mr As mothers house would 
have had to have obtained access inside the house, and on two separate occasions, 
because they were sent separately. As Mr As mother lived alone, and had an individual 
letterbox to her property, theres no obvious way in which a fraudster could have obtained 
access inside the property, stolen the mail without being noticed, and on two occasions. 
So I consider its more likely than not that Mr A did receive the card and PIN, and that it was 
Mr A, or someone known to him with his permission, who carried out the disputed 
transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman