DRN-2118130
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that One Insurance Limited declined a claim under her home insurance 
policy for accidental damage.
What happened
In April 2019 Ms C made a claim to One Insurance. She said shed woken up to find her 
kitchen was flooded. She told One Insurance a potted plant was on its side in the sink. She 
suggested that one of her cats might have knocked it over during the night or maybe she 
hadnt put the plant pot back on the window sill securely after watering it the previous 
evening. She assumed the plant pot had knocked the hot tap lever on as it fell. Soil from the 
plant pot had then blocked the sink. Hot water had filled the sink and overflowed onto 
worktops and the floor. The kitchen was badly damaged and to a lesser extent the living 
room. 
One Insurance arranged for the property to be dried and for a contractor to quote for repairs. 
In October 2019 it instructed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. The loss adjuster had 
concerns about Ms Cs account of how the damage had happened. In the light of that One 
Insurance declined the claim. It said Ms C would have to repay the cost of drying the 
property less £600 which it offered as compensation for the delay on its part in reaching a 
decision.
Ms C brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She saw no reason 
not to accept Ms Cs explanation of what had happened. She thought One Insurance should 
accept and consider the claim. She also thought it should pay Ms C direct £600 
compensation for delays.
As One Insurance didnt agree, the matter has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case One Insurance said it didnt think the damage happened in the way Ms C said it 
might have. So I need to decide whether it acted fairly in doubting Ms Cs version of events.
Firstly, there are no inconsistencies in what Ms C has said to various people regarding how 
the damage might have been caused. Shes also always said she isnt clear what actually 
happened because she wasnt in the room at the relevant time.
The contractor sent by One Insurance to assess the damage didnt report any concerns 
about the damage not having been caused accidentally. Similarly the supplier sent to dry the 
property by One Insurance also didnt have any doubts. He said:
It was fair to assume that the water damage had been, and in my professional opinion was 
caused by the hot water kitchen tap running for a length of time. And he thought it was 
highly feasible that the damage could have happened as Ms C had described.
Up until early October Ms C was led to believe that repairs to her property would be 
authorised. So far as I can see, it was only the amount of the quote to repair the damage 
that made One Insurance instruct a loss adjuster to carry out further investigations. 
Based on the loss adjusters report, the concerns set out by One Insurance were as follows:
the plant pot didnt look big or heavy enough to have the force required to turn on a tap by 
falling a short distance. 
the gap between the window sill and tap didnt appear to provide enough distance for the 
falling plant to reach the force required to hit the tap and turn it on.
the angle at which the plant must have fallen to turn on the hot tap meant the direction of 
travel for the majority of soil would be across the draining board and not into the sink. 
Therefore, the volume of soil in the sink would likely not have been enough to block it.
there was an existing leak in the join of the tap which would reduce the force at which 
water came out of the tap.
One Insurances loss adjuster appears to have reached his conclusion based on photos 
supplied by Ms C. But he went on to say that:
the tap would need to be have been pushed fully open to fill the sink and flood the 
property and have a large volume of soil in the sink to block the plug hole.
In summary it seems to me in his view the damage could have happened in the way 
described by Ms C but he thought it was unlikely. Some of his concerns may be justified but 
Im not convinced that any are most likely right. The plant pot when filled with soil and 
containing a plant does look big and heavy enough to me to turn a lever tap on since these 
taps dont usually require much force. Photos show that the flow of water from the tap even 
with a small leak would still have been enough to flood the kitchen over several hours. 
Theres no forensic evidence to show that the plant pot was likely not to have fallen in such a 
way as to turn the tap on and for the sink to become blocked with soil. 
The supplier sent to dry the property has given details of his various professional credentials 
in relation to water damage. So Im not persuaded that the loss adjusters opinion should be 
given more weight over his or vice versa.
Im not convinced that One Insurance treated Ms C fairly in declining her claim based on the 
fact that no-one acting for One Insurance seems to have doubted her until the size of the 
repair estimate made them think again and also on my own experience of how such 
accidents can happen. I dont think One Insurance can reasonably say the damage wasnt 
caused accidentally. In order to treat Ms C fairly it should deal with her claim.
Finally, I have looked into the way Ms Cs claim was handled by One Insurance. Almost all 
her kitchen cupboards together with the kitchen flooring were stripped out to enable the 
property to dry. She had to live with a barely usable kitchen for several months and was led 
to believe that her claim would be accepted until the loss adjuster was instructed in October 
2019. Then she was told that her claim wouldnt be settled after all, the insinuation being that 
there may have been fraud involved. She would clearly have been distressed and 
inconvenienced by this. Im of the view that One Insurance should compensate her for the 
additional trouble and upset caused and I agree that the sum of £600 is appropriate in the 
circumstances.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require One Insurance Limited to:
deal with Ms Cs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy; and 
pay her £600 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman