DRN-3460098
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Saga Services Limited (Saga) has increased the cost of his insurance 
substantially. He wants a full explanation of why this has happened.
What happened
Mr G has a health insurance policy with Saga. When it was due for renewal in 2021 he was 
dismayed to see that the price had increased by 50%. When he asked Saga to explain this it 
says some of the increase was because Mr G had made a claim on the policy in the 
previous year. It said the reasons for the rest of the increase were commercially sensitive, so 
it wouldnt provide any further detail.
Mr G complained to no avail, so he asked us to review the complaint. Our investigator asked 
Saga for more detail on the reasons for the increase, and was satisfied that they explained 
the increase, and that it was fair. He also accepted Sagas statement that any other 
customer in the same circumstances as Mr G would be charged the same amount.
Mr G doesnt think this explanation is good enough so Ive been asked to decide the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as our investigator gave,
Im satisfied that Saga has explained to us how it calculated the renewal price. Saga has 
already told Mr G that part of the price rise reflected the impact of Mr G making a claim  
which meant he lost some of his no claims discount. And the categories of reasons it gave 
for the remainder of the price rise  for example age or pre-existing health conditions  are 
those used in the insurance industry generally. I also see no reason to doubt Sagas 
statement that Mr G has been charged the same premium as anyone else in his exact 
circumstances.
I appreciate Mr Gs dissatisfaction with the explanation hes received. But Saga is entitled to 
keep commercially sensitive information confidential. That means it isnt appropriate for me 
to ask it to provide him with a comprehensive breakdown of the increased costs. 
Mr G was free to shop around for alternate insurance if he wanted to, although I understand 
he decided that a different level of cover with Saga is what he wants. That suggests Saga 
has been flexible when renewing the policy. Taking everything into consideration I dont think 
Saga did anything wrong here, so I wont be asking it to more than it has.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman