Complaint
This complaint is about a loan Mr P took out through a company called Emergency Cash 
Limited, trading at the time as wizzcash.com. To keep things simple Ill refer mainly to 
wizzcash throughout this decision.
Mr P says wizzcash hasnt been accurately reporting information about the status of his 
former borrowing to the credit reference agencies and this has caused him on-going financial 
difficulties.
Background
We now know that Mr P took out 2 loans from wizzcash with the first one being paid off and 
the second, in 2013, not being paid off. Mr P still owes money on the second loan.
Weve already told Mr P that we cant look into the complaint he initially also raised about 
irresponsible lending as he brought the complaint to us outside the time limits that apply. So 
I wont be addressing this; Im only addressing the default reporting matter.   
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be 
upheld in as much as the way the default is recorded ought to be clarified. Wizzcash didnt 
respond to this, so Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking about Mr Ps 
complaint.
Mr P says wizzcash hasnt been accurately reporting information about the status of his loan 
to the credit reference agencies. He says his credit file shows that wizzcashs reporting has 
caused it to show he is in continual late payments, rather than in being in default, which he 
says isnt completely accurate. Mr P says all he has ever wanted is for there to be an 
accurate representation of the current state of his 2013 loan account on his credit file.
It seems to me that this issue is very straightforward and I dont think wizzcash has handled 
it very well. Matters have been prolonged unnecessarily. So I think its reasonable that 
wizzcash rectifies things. And it should make sure it now reports the status of the loan as in 
default with an outstanding balance (or closely so-worded) as this is a much more accurate 
reflection of the account at present, rather than as being a continuous monthly late payment 
matter. 
DRN-1932199Marking the credit file with a late payment each monthly suggests, wrongly in my view, that 
the agreement has recently broken down and this may well  be negatively affecting Mr Ps 
financial well-being. Considering the length of time that has now passed, I think a more 
accurate and fair way to report the loan would be default with an outstanding balance.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for the consumer, wizzcash should:
Immediately see that it amends / reports Mr P as being in default with an outstanding
balance to the relevant credit reference agencies.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint and I direct Emergency Cash Limited trading as as wizzcash.com 
to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision 16 July 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman