DRN-2706660
The complaint
Mr O complains about his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with Mortgage Express. Mr O is 
unhappy that Mortgage Express appointed a Law of Property Act Receiver (Receiver) and 
then took his property into possession.
He would like the property returned to his control so he can sell it himself.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month which stated:
What happened
Mr O has an interest-only BTL mortgage with Mortgage Express. At various times over 
the term Mortgage Express has been contacted by the freeholder as Mr O hadnt paid the 
ground rent and/or service charges for the property. Mortgage Express has paid these 
and added the debts onto the mortgage account.
Mr O says the freeholder was writing to an incorrect address, but I cant consider that 
here as this complaint is just about Mortgage Express and its actions. I also cant 
consider whether the amounts the freeholder said were due were correct, for the same 
reason. On 5 June 2018 Mortgage Express received notification from the freeholders 
solicitor that £2,683 was owing.
Mortgage Express wrote to Mr O on 6 June 2018 saying that if it didnt hear back from 
him in 7 days then it would pay that amount to the freeholder. It said, if it did so then Mr O 
should repay that amount within 12 months. It also said that if Mortgage Express had to 
make the payment then it would be a breach of the mortgage conditions which meant it 
could then take legal remedies, such as taking possession of the property or instructing a 
Receiver.
 
As nothing was heard from Mr O then the payment was sent on 13 June and that amount 
was added to Mr Os mortgage debt. Mortgage Express wrote to Mr O to remind him that 
the amount should be repaid within 12 months.
On 18 July 2018 Mortgage Express wrote a further letter to Mr O. In this Mortgage 
Express said the amount must be paid no later than 12 June 2019, and if it wasnt then it 
would be entitled to issue a formal demand for the full balance and apply legal remedies.
As the amount remained outstanding, on 13 June 2019 Mortgage Express wrote to Mr O 
again. It said hed breached his mortgage conditions and so it would be issuing a formal 
demand for the repayment of the full balance of the mortgage. It said that would lead to 
enforcement procedures if the full balance wasnt paid. It gave Mr O until 27 June 2019 to 
rectify the breach (that is, pay the £2,683) otherwise the formal demand would be issued.
The amount wasnt paid and so the formal demand was issued on 1 July 2019.
Mortgage Express sent a further letter to Mr O on 9 July 2019 which said it would be 
appointing a Receiver if the full debt wasnt repaid by 16 July 2019. As the debt wasnt 
repaid a Receiver was appointed.
On 12 November 2019 Mortgage Express set out the terms upon which it would consider 
handing control back to Mr O. It said:
the mortgage accounts needed to be brought up to date,
monthly payments had to be maintained by direct debit,
all the Receivers costs had to be repaid, and
the outstanding ground rent and/or service charges needed to be repaid.
In addition, Mortgage Express said it would also look at reducing the term by 
approximately five years as well as requiring overpayments each month, both upon 
completion of a financial disclosure document.
The Receiver was stood down, and Mortgage Express took the property into its 
possession on 6 December 2019. It was due to market and sell the property, but it put 
that on hold so Mr Os complaint could be considered.
Our investigator thought Mortgage Express criteria for handing back the property was 
unfair. He didnt think Mortgage Express should insist on a shortening of the mortgage 
term, or the overpayments. He also felt as Mr O wanted to sell the property, it should be 
returned to him so he could do so. He said if the property remained unsold for three 
months (or Mr O didnt maintain his monthly mortgage payments) then Mortgage Express 
could take the property back into possession at that time.
Mortgage Express didnt agree. It said both it and Mr O appeared to want the same thing, 
which was to sell the property and so it made sense for it to retain possession and sell it 
as it felt that option would be easier and cheaper for Mr O. It said, if it handed control 
back to Mr O and then he didnt sell it within those three months, then there would be 
more costs involved when it retook possession.
As an agreement couldnt be reached it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I trust Mr O wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Before I address the underlying merits of the complaint in detail, there are some 
observations I need to make about the extent of my remit to consider this complaint. 
Where, as here, a lender decides to appoint a Receiver, the Receiver once appointed 
doesnt act as agent for the lender, but for the borrower. What that means in practical 
terms is that Im unable to consider any concerns Mr O may have about the actions of the 
Receiver, because it isnt covered by the jurisdictional scope of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.Mr O was in breach of his mortgage conditions when he didnt pay the ground rent and/or 
service charges on his property, so Mortgage Express was entitled to take legitimate 
steps to recover the money owed to it. The steps it took in appointing a Receiver, and 
then in taking possession of the property, were commercial decisions that Mortgage 
Express was entitled to take. Generally speaking, we wont interfere in the way a financial 
business exercises its commercial judgement, and Im not persuaded there are grounds 
for me to do so here.
Mr O has said that Mortgage Express was hasty in appointing a Receiver, but I dont 
agree. The payment it made in June 2018 wasnt the first ground rent and/or service 
charges payment that Mortgage Express had to make for Mr Os property; similar things 
had happened over the years running up to that point. Each time that had happened Mr O 
was in breach of his mortgage contract, so Mortgage Express could have taken this 
action much sooner than it did. Its just that in 2018 Mortgage Express decided to take the 
actions it was entitled to take under the terms and conditions of Mr Os mortgage account. 
But even then, it still gave Mr O a further year  that is until 12 June 2019  to pay the 
£2,683. The 2018 letters said about the legal remedies that could follow (that is, the 
instruction of a Receiver and/or the property being taken into possession) so it seems 
Mr O had plenty of notice that the sum needed to be paid, and what could happen if it 
wasnt.
Then on 13 June 2019 Mortgage Express gave Mr O a further two weeks to pay the 
£2,683 before it would take any action. All things considered Im not persuaded Mortgage 
Express acted with undue haste in appointing the Receiver.
I understand our investigator thought Mortgage Express request for a shorter mortgage 
term and overpayments was unfair. But I dont agree, and I can understand why 
Mortgage Express put those requests in there. This is an interest-only mortgage and the 
balance was significantly higher than had been agreed when the mortgage was taken out 
due to the amount of times Mortgage Express had to pay the ground rent and/or service 
charges for the property. All those extra amounts were also held on an interest-only 
basis.
If the position carried on the way it was, the equity in the property would be eroded each 
time Mortgage Express had to take similar action, so by shortening the term and requiring 
overpayments be made, it would be protecting its security. Put simply, the more years the 
mortgage was to run for, the more potential ground rent and/or service charge payments 
that would be added to the debt, increasing it still further. And any overpayments made 
would mean the mortgage debt would start decreasing back down to the level that had 
been agreed to by Mortgage Express.
In any event, all that is moot. Thats because, once the formal demand was issued on 
1 July 2019 then the full mortgage debt became due. At that point Mortgage Express 
didnt have to accept anything other than full repayment, so its offer in November 2019 to 
look at handing control back to Mr O if he met the list of terms it put forward is more than 
fair because it simply didnt have to make that offer.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Mortgage Express acted within the terms of 
Mr Os BTL mortgage account and didnt act with undue haste. The decisions it made it 
was entitled to make, and it simply wouldnt be appropriate for me to interfere with those 
however much Mr O may want me to.
I understand Mortgage Express will be looking to market and sell the property, and as Mr 
O has said he also wants the property sold I would hope the parties can work together 
productively to reach their mutual aim.
Mortgage Express accepted my provisional findings. Mr O didnt accept my findings and 
asked that I reconsider my decision, making some further points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Im unable to consider any acts or omissions by 
the freeholder so whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mr Os situation, I wont be 
commenting on anything that relates to the freeholder and their part in matters.
If Mr O is able to provide a ruling from a tribunal that the debts werent owed then he can 
claim the money back, but without that I dont think Mortgage Express acted unreasonably in 
paying the amounts requested to protect its security. Mr O may think there were no legal 
grounds for those amounts to be paid but my role is to look at what is fair and reasonable, 
and Im satisfied Mortgage Express didnt act inappropriately in making the payments when it 
did.
Mr O has accepted he made a bad judgement in thinking the amount would be added to his 
mortgage debt as it had previously, and he could just repay it when he came to sell the 
property in the future. It is unfortunate that Mr O did think that, but I cant hold Mortgage 
Express liable for his assumption. Mortgage Express gave Mr O fair warning that the amount 
had to be repaid within 12 months and set out the potential legal remedies that it could use if 
the money wasnt repaid. Even after those 12 months were up Mr O was given a further 
month, with fair warnings of the consequences of non-payment.
Mr O has said that he wants to sell the property as he has a very good relationship with the 
estate agent, as well as family members in the trades who can get the property up to a high 
standard to attract the best price when sold. I understand Mr O wants me to order Mortgage 
Express to return the property to him, but I simply cant do that however much he may want 
me to. I can only order Mortgage Express to do something if I first find that it has done 
something wrong that led to the situation. As Mortgage Express did nothing wrong here, and 
gave Mr O fair warning, then I cant order any remedy such as the property being returned to 
his control.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman