DRN-3293782
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S have complained about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance
Limited (Lloyds) settled a claim under a home insurance policy and its poor customer 
service.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S contacted Lloyds to make a claim for jewellery that had gone missing. 
Lloyds initially said the policy limit was £10,000. However, it later told the jewellery company 
settling the claim on Lloyds behalf that the policy limit was £25,000. So that company 
offered Mr S and Mrs S vouchers or a cash settlement on the basis of a £25,000 limit. Mr S 
and Mrs S raised some queries about the amounts offered, but accepted a combination of 
vouchers and a cash settlement.
The jewellery company then contacted Mr S and Mrs S and said it needed to re-issue the 
vouchers as the policy excess needed to be deducted. Mr S and Mrs S queried this with 
Lloyds because the policy excess was incorrect. Lloyds then explained that the vouchers 
had been issued in error, as the policy limit was £10,000.
When Mr S and Mrs S complained, Lloyds said it had initially told Mr S and Mrs S the correct 
policy limit of £10,000. However, it had then given the incorrect limit to the jewellery 
company. The claim was then dealt with using the wrong limit, which was only noticed when 
Mr S and Mrs S queried the policy excess. It said the claim had now been dealt with under 
the correct part of the policy, which had a £10,000 limit and it wasnt possible to change this. 
It offered £400 compensation because of the error it had made.
So, Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator said Lloyds didnt need to 
do anything further. She said Lloyds initially advised the correct policy limit, but made a 
mistake when it then said the policy limit was £25,000 and made its settlement offer on that 
basis. However, when it realised its mistake it settled the claim in line with the terms of the 
policy. She said Lloyds offer of £400 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
As Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S contacted Lloyds to make a claim, he said the jewellery had gone missing and 
that he thought his adult sons had disposed of it when they were clearing up the house. He 
said he had spoken to the disposal company his sons had contacted to take away items, but 
that company had said it didnt go through the items before sending them to be disposed of. 
The claim handler said it would be dealt with as accidental loss and that there was a £10,000 
policy limit overall and £3,000 per item. So, I think Lloyds made Mr S aware of how the claim 
would be dealt with.
However, Lloyds then told the jewellery company that the £25,000 policy limit applied, which 
was for high risk items within the residence. Looking at the policy wording, there wasnt 
cover for accidental loss within the property. The only cover that might have applied was for 
theft. Im aware that Mr S has said that some workmen were in the house during the period 
the items were lost and that there was a possibility the items had been stolen. But, I think 
given how Mr S described the loss to Lloyds that it was reasonable for it to deal with it as 
accidental loss, rather than as theft. This meant the cover within the private residence didnt 
apply and therefore neither did the £25,000 limit. Instead, Lloyds dealt with it under the 
personal belongings section of the policy for loss outside of the home, which had a £10,000 
limit. In the circumstances, I think that was reasonable.
Lloyds accepts that during the claim it made a mistake by telling the jewellery company that 
the £25,000 limit applied. The jewellery company checked this was correct and was told that 
it was. The company then made offers to Mr S and Mrs S to settle the claim, which were 
based on the £25,000 limit. It was only when Mr S and Mrs S queried the policy excess that 
it became clear that the wrong policy limit had been applied, which meant the amount 
payable would be limited to £10,000. I can understand that Mr S and Mrs S were concerned 
by the large reduction in the claim settlement. However, from what Ive seen Lloyds has now 
dealt with the claim under the appropriate part of the policy and applied the correct policy 
limit, which is the one it told Mr S would apply at the start of the claim. I cant fairly require 
Lloyds to pay more than the policy terms and conditions allow. Lloyds made a mistake and 
clearly built up Mr S and Mrs Ss expectations about what they would receive in settlement, 
but I dont think that meant it had to settle the claim based on the wrong policy limit when it 
realised its error.
Lloyds offered Mr S and Mrs S £400 compensation because of the error it made. Ive thought 
about this carefully and I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. I think the 
compensation offered fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S and 
Mrs S because of the loss of expectation about the claim settlement amount and for the poor 
customer service and is in line with what I would have required Lloyds to pay.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited dealt with the claim and complaint reasonably by applying the £10,000 policy limit 
and with its offer of £400 compensation. I dont require it to do anything further in relation to 
the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman