DRN-3580738
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about the way QIC Europe Ltd handled a flood claim against their 
buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it in detail here. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mrs M and Mr M reported a flood claim to QIC in 2019 after significant damage 
was caused to their home and contents. QIC cash settled the buildings aspect of the claim 
after Mrs M and Mr M raised several issues. A dispute, however, remains regarding the cash 
settlement provided by QIC for the contents aspect of the claim. 
Mrs M and Mr M say £45,351.44 remains outstanding as part of the contents claim. They 
say QICs loss adjuster failed to attend their home and complete an inventory of their 
contents. And QIC removed and disposed of several items without their consent. They also 
say the claim was handled poorly. 
QIC say they settled the claim reasonably and, although things could have been handled 
better, Mrs M and Mr M held a large amount of contents items which caused challenges, and 
they have been unable to validate certain items. They also say any items stored in the 
outbuildings are subject to a £1,000 policy limit for any one loss, which they paid. 
QIC also say they covered the costs Mrs M and Mr M incurred for hiring a caravan and arent 
liable for the costs of making good any damage it caused to their garden. As Mrs M and Mr 
M remained unhappy, they approached our service. 
I issued my provisional decision on 7 June 2022, which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and several issues have been 
raised. I will, however, focus on the issues which are  in my opinion  relevant to reaching a 
fair outcome to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service. 
Several of the items Mrs M and Mr M say werent included as part of the claim settlement 
were stored in their attached garage. As such, my starting point is the policy terms, which 
say: 
Definitions
Home 
The main building which you live in, garages which are part of or attached to the main 
building, and outbuildings all within the boundaries of the address shown on your 
schedule. 
Outbuildings 
Detached garages, sheds, greenhouses, summer houses and other permanent structures 
set apart from the main building which you live in and which are used for domestic or 
business administration purposes. 
These go on to say the policy limit for items in the outbuildings is £1,000, which QIC paid to 
Mrs M and Mr M. 
Theres a clear distinction between the definition of the home and outbuildings. The policy in 
my view makes clear a garage attached to the property forms part of the definition of the 
home. This section of the policy doesnt have a £1,000 policy limit, whereas the outbuildings 
section does. 
Mrs M and Mr M say several of the remaining items were stored in their attached garage 
when the flood occurred. And these items were removed and disposed of by QIC without 
their consent. Ill return to this aspect shortly. Ive seen photos of Mrs M and Mr Ms home 
which show the garage was attached to the main building. As above, this wouldnt be 
considered as the outbuildings under the policy, so I dont think the £1,000 policy limit QIC 
relied on to limit their liability was fair. 
Returning to the disposal of the items and whether Mrs M gave consent for this to happen. 
All parties agree Mrs M and Mr M owned many items. QIC says its over and above the 
average based on the size of the home and caused challenges. QIC also say Mrs M gave 
verbal consent for the items to be disposed, but nothing was confirmed in writing at the time. 
Mr M says hes a wheelchair user and stored most of his contents downstairs and in the 
attached garage. I find it less likely, given the value of some of the items, that Mrs M simply 
agreed QIC should remove and dispose of all items. A factor I must also consider it the lack 
of appropriate claim handling. In my view, the crux of why the matter is still running is due to 
QIC failing to complete an inventory. Had this step been taken, Im satisfied the claim would 
have been resolved much sooner. Mrs M and Mr M also say payments received werent 
explained or itemised, which only caused further confusion. 
As a result, Mrs M and Mr M say the list of contents they think are outstanding was partly a 
guess as to what they thought remained unpaid. I want to be clear and manage Mrs M and 
Mr Ms expectations that my decision wont be directing QIC to cover the entire amount 
theyre claiming. I say this because I dont think every item they listed has been missed. Ill 
return to this aspect later. 
All parties have seen the contents list put together by Mrs M and Mr M, so I wont include it 
here. Rather, Ill set out what I think must happen now to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
I intend on directing QIC to create a new list for items that were included as part of the 
settlement. They must quantify what payment the items were included within, and when this 
was paid. This will assist in establishing what items remain unpaid. 
For items within Mrs M and Mr Ms attached garage, QIC should not apply the £1,000 policy 
limit for outbuildings. Mrs M and Mr Ms list provides the items they think remain outstanding, 
and theyve also provided where they were kept. Mrs M and Mr M have provided their 
testimony on where these items were stored which I find most persuasive currently  Ive no 
reason to doubt their testimony nor seen any evidence so far that undermines it. I say this in 
the absence of any inventory completed by QIC at the time items were said to have been 
removed or disposed of. Once the list has been created and items have been quantified, QIC must then cash settle 
the remaining items Mrs M and Mr M are claiming for, up to the contents policy limit. 
As above, I wont be directing QIC to cover the full amount Mrs M and Mr M are claiming for, 
as I dont think every item listed has been missed or should be paid. Ill explain why and use 
sub-headings for ease of reading. 
Caravan costs and the damage caused by it 
Mrs M and Mr M claimed for the costs of hiring a caravan. They say QIC paid this but later 
retracted this offer and removed it from the cash settlement amount. But I havent seen 
strong supporting evidence that shows this payment was made and later retracted. 
The payment for the caravan formed part of the alternative accommodation payment Mrs M 
and Mr M received, along with their costs incurred whilst staying in a hotel. This means 
QICs liability was limited to covering the costs of hiring the caravan only. I wouldnt expect 
an insurer to cover any damage caused by a third-party company when delivering the 
caravan to Mrs M and Mr M. 
Ive seen they had difficulty contacting the third-party company after the caravan was 
delivered, but any damage caused by a third-party would not be the responsibility of the 
insurer to put right in these circumstances. 
Furniture including the loan 
Mrs M and Mr M say QIC should pay them an additional £19,334.66 for furniture damaged 
by the flood, including the loan they took out to replace it. 
The furniture items Mrs M and Mr M provided us with are included within the contents list 
used by QIC to settle the claim. The amount shown within QICs list is £15,842.28. Its not 
clear how Mrs M and Mr M have quantified that a further amount is due to them. I appreciate 
Mr M says his list was a guess of what he thought hadnt been included. However, within a 
document he provided to us, he quantified the costs to replace the damaged furniture would 
be £14,910.66. So, it appears the damaged furniture has been paid already. For the sake of 
clarity, however, QIC must include these items within their new list of items that have been 
paid and show what payments to Mrs M and Mr M this amount was included within. 
Summary and compensation
This is a complex claim involving significant flood damage, and I accept things didnt always 
run as smoothly as all parties would like. That said, had things been handled much better by 
QIC  such as completing a contents inventory  the matter would have been handled far 
smoother than it was. 
Mrs M and Mr M have explained their health circumstances and Ive no doubt the way things 
were handled caused them a level of distress and inconvenience  over and above whats 
naturally expected following a flood claim. The claim has taken up much of their time which I 
think could have been avoided. 
Whilst monetary amounts cannot always reflect the level of distress and inconvenience 
experienced, I hope Mrs M and Mr M understand Ive given careful thought to the complaint, 
and the impact the claim handling had on them. To recognise this, I currently intend on 
directing QIC to pay Mrs M and Mr M £350 compensation. 
Im aware aspects of my intended decision will disappoint all parties. But my intended direction will provide, in my view, a faire and reasonable outcome to this complaint for all 
parties. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I intend on directing QIC Europe Ltd to do 
the following: 
Create a new list of contents items that have already been paid. QIC must quantify 
each payment and demonstrate what items have already been covered as part of the 
claim; 
Cash settle the remaining contents items outstanding up to the contents policy limit; 
and 
Pay Mrs M and Mr M £350 compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Responses to my provisional decision 
QIC didnt respond to my provisional decision within the timescales I set out or to the further 
response requests our service sent. I can therefore only assume they have nothing further 
they wish to add ahead of my final decision. 
Mrs M and Mr M responded to my provisional decision and made the following observations 
which Ive summarised below: 
Although the buildings aspect of the claim was finally cash settled, the kitchen and 
bathroom floors not being tiled still needs addressing, as the current flooring is lifting 
and bubbling where it got wet and has gaps. They also say the original fan oven they 
had was replaced with a standard oven which isnt fit for purpose. 
Their latest list of contents was based on attempting to balance the items they 
werent sure had been paid given QIC didnt quantify the items when paying them 
lump sums. I said this was a guess and Mr M has clarified the items existed and the 
amount claimed for is correct which I understand fully. 
They are unsure why the contents amount theyre claiming for wont be covered in 
full. Their latest contents list includes items they believe have been covered, and 
what remains outstanding. And there are several items they havent claimed for as 
they were unable to validate these given QIC removed and disposed on them. 
They werent expecting a compensation award and say this claim has taken up much 
of their time, both physically and mentally. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I wanted to start by saying Im grateful to Mrs M and Mr M for providing us with a detailed 
response to my provisional decision. I havent included each point they raised and have only 
summarised what I think are key points. 
I set out from the outset my role is to reach a resolution to this longstanding, complex claim  
that is fair and reasonable for all parties. I also set out I appreciated aspects of my decision 
will come to disappoint both them and QIC. 
Having reviewed the matter again, including the further submission provided by Mrs M and 
Mr M, I remain of the view this complaint should be upheld  for the same reasons I set out 
within my provisional decision. 
My reasons remain that had QIC completed an inventory, this claim would have been much 
further along and most likely resolved by now. I also think confusion has been caused by the 
way in which payments that followed in lump sums made it very difficult to quantify what has 
been paid for  and what remains. So, my intended decision wasnt as straightforward as 
directing QIC to pay the sum Mrs M and Mr M are claiming for without this validation 
process, as  without understanding what has already been paid, Im unable to direct QIC to 
pay for items that may have already been paid for. 
But the fact that remains here is QIC havent indemnified Mrs M and Mr M with a fair 
settlement of their contents claim which they must now do. 
Because of QICs error in not completing an inventory or any information around what items 
were paid for and when, I provisionally decided that QIC should create a new list of contents 
items that have already been paid. That way, QIC would need to quantify each payment and 
demonstrate what items have already been covered. Above all else, it will give Mrs M and Mr 
M peace of mind that items they claimed for havent been missed. It also means the 
remaining items Mrs M and Mr M are claiming for, but havent been paid, cannot be 
disputed. Mrs M and Mr M say the outstanding items theyve listed are genuine and have 
been quantified appropriately, which I dont doubt, having set that out within my provisional 
decision previously. 
Once this is done, QIC must then cash settle the outstanding items that havent been 
included within previous settlement amounts paid to Mrs M and Mr M. This should be cash 
settled to the policy limits for contents, and QIC shouldnt rely on the £1,000 outbuildings 
policy limit for items stored in the attached garage. Im satisfied, having reviewed all the 
information available to me, this is the fairest and most appropriate way to settle the 
outstanding contents dispute. 
Mrs M and Mr M also told us of issues theyve faced with the flooring in the kitchen and 
bathrooms, and the fan oven that was replaced. Given the length of time this claim has been 
ongoing and that QIC must now take necessary steps to validate the contents aspect of the 
claim and settle it, I think its fair to include these issues within that.
Finally, Ive kept in mind the way things were handled by QIC and the overall impact this has 
had, and will continue to have, on Mrs M and Mr M. Theres no doubt in my mind things 
should have been handled much better  which I set out within my provisional decision. I 
remain of the view £350 compensation to recognise any distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mrs M and Mr M is fair, reasonable, and proportionate, based on the circumstances of this 
complaint. So, Ill be directing QIC to pay this amount to them. Putting things right
QIC must now create a new list of contents items that have been paid, and cash settle the 
remaining items that havent been paid. They must also pay Mrs M and Mr M £350 
compensation for the reasons Ive mentioned above. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require QIC Europe Ltd to do the following: 
Create a new list of contents items that have already been paid. QIC must quantify 
each payment and demonstrate what items have already been covered as part of the 
claim; 
Cash settle the remaining contents items outstanding up to the contents policy limit; 
and 
Pay Mrs M and Mr M £350 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman