DRN-1911651
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled his claim on his insurance 
following a burglary.
What happened
Mr W had a self-employed insurance policy with Aviva to cover the contents stored in a 
premises he rents for his business. In May 2019 there was a burglary at the premises which 
included the theft of a safe containing around £16,000 cash.
Mr W made a claim on the policy and a loss adjuster was sent out to look at the premises. 
Following this Aviva said that he only had cover for money up to £1,000 so this would be the 
maximum it would pay for the cash. It also said the safe wouldnt be covered as it was 
attached to the building so would fall into buildings cover and Mr W only had cover for 
contents.
Mr W didnt think was fair. He said that the person he spoke to when he notified Aviva of the 
claim had said the money would be covered. So he thought this should be honoured. Further 
he said as the safe was part of the contents, the cost of this should also be covered. He 
made a complaint to Aviva.
Aviva upheld his complaint and offered him £150 compensation for the loss of expectation 
caused by the wrong information given on his initial call. It also said it could cover the safe, 
cash and stolen CCTV under the cover for stock and material which has a limit of £5,000. 
However due to the limits of the policy it said it was unable to provide cover for the full 
amount of stolen cash.
Mr W didnt think this was fair as he thought Aviva should honour what it had told him on the 
first call. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that the policy limits didnt cover the full amount of money contained in the safe so 
Aviva were fair to only cover up to the limit. And she thought the £150 compensation for loss 
of expectation was fair in the circumstances.
Mr W didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has said that the policy Mr W has doesnt cover the full amount of money that he had 
in the safe so it wont be able to pay out the full amount lost. 
Under the section that covers money, the policy states as follows:
1.1 We will cover You for loss of coin, bank and currency notes which belong to You or for 
which You are
responsible, in connection with Your Business during the Period of Insurance whilst
1.1.3 contained in a locked safe on Your Premises outside Business Hours
1.4 The most We will pay for any one claim is stated in Your Schedule.
Mr W advised that the theft took place outside of business hours so this term would apply. 
The policy schedule states the limit as £1,000 for money contained in a locked safe on Your 
Premises outside Business Hours. So I can see that the limit for any money held on the 
premises is £1,000. So the amount of money Mr W stored in his safe would never have been 
covered by the policy.
In this instance Aviva has agreed to include the cash as part of settlement under a different 
part of the policy  stock and materials in trade. The policy limit for this is higher at £5,000. 
However this section of the policy also provides cover for the stolen CCTV equipment and 
the cost of the safe itself. As this appears to be done as a gesture of good will I wont 
interfere in Avivas decision to settle the claim under this part of the policy.
Mr W has said that Aviva had told him when he called to register the claim that all the money 
would be covered under the policy. He says that this should be honoured. I have listened to 
the call when Mr W notified Aviva of the claim. On this call he is asked how much money the 
safe contains and he says he is unsure. The call handler does say money is covered, which 
is correct as there is a section covering cash lost as the result of an insured peril. However 
she also explains the policy limits to Mr W. So I dont agree that comment was made on 
whether the claim would be successful or not. 
However Me W feels the information he was given was misleading and led him to believe his 
cash would be covered. However once a full assessment was made a few days later, it was 
clear that the policy didnt provide cover for the amount of cash and this was confirmed to 
Mr W. Aviva offered Mr W £150 compensation to make up for the loss of expectation caused 
by any misleading information provided on the call. I think this is fair in the circumstances 
and enough to make up for any distress this may have caused when he found out the cash 
wasnt covered.
For these reasons I think Aviva has treated Mr W fairly in the circumstances. It has agreed to 
settle the claim above the standard limit of cash and has offered compensation to make up 
for any misleading information given about the claim. So I wont require it to do anything 
differently.
It is worth noting that Aviva has advised Mr W to urgently review the insurance cover he has 
for his business to ensure it is suitable. Should Mr W have any concerns about the suitability 
of the cover sold to him, then this is something he may wish to raise with his broker.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman