DRN-4040498
The complaint
Mr B complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market (Quid Market) gave him
loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr B took five loans from Quid Market between February 2020 and July 2021. Ive outlined a 
summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £300.00 20/02/2020 28/05/2020 3 £158.70
2 £300.00 14/07/2020 24/09/2020 3 £136.20
3 £750.00 29/09/2020 25/02/2021 5 £273.30
4 £400.00 11/03/2021 27/05/2021 3 £183.83
5 £400.00 16/07/2021 25/11/2021 3 £175.94
Following Mr Bs complaint, Quid Market issued its final response letter (FRL). In summary,
it said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were affordable.
Although, Quid Market didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill it offered to
remove these loans from Mr Bs credit file. Mr B didnt agree and instead referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who in his latest assessment didnt uphold 
the complaint about loans 1  4. However, by loan 5, the adjudicator thought the time in debt 
ought to have led Quid Market to have carried out further checks. Had it done so, perhaps by 
reviewing Mr Bs bank statements, it wouldve likely discovered that Mr B already had eight 
outstanding payday loans. The adjudicator concluded that this loan wasnt sustainable for 
Mr B and so ought to not have been granted. 
Mr B appears to have accepted the outcome the adjudicator reached. 
Quid Market didnt agree with the outcome the adjudicator proposed for loan 5. In summary 
it said.
By loan 5, Quid Market was aware that he had the lowest total unsecured debts. 
Mr B had repaid his other loans without any difficulties. 
Mr Bs disposable income was larger for loan 5 than it was for loan 4. 
At loan 5, Quid Market was aware from the credit check results that Mr B had one 
unsecured loan, one credit card and a current account. The credit check didnt 
suggest Mr B had a number of outstanding loans at the time. 
The decision to provide this loan was reasonable. 
As no agreement was reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quid Markets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quid Market should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B.
Quid Market was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Neither Mr B nor Quid Market appear to have disagreed with the adjudicators findings about 
loans 1  4. To me, this suggests these loans are no longer in dispute and therefore I will 
say no more about them. Instead, this decision will focus on whether Quid Market did all it 
ought to have done before advancing 5. 
Loan 5
Quid Market has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr B for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Bs income has been recorded as being £1,819 per
month  this was verified with a copy of his payslip.Mr B also declared his monthly outgoings were £700. This left disposal income of around
£1,119 per month. However, following further checks (including a credit search which
I comment on below) Quid Market decreased Mr Bs monthly disposable income by a further 
£70  taking it to £1,049. The loan looked affordable for Mr B.
However, before this loan was approved Quid Market also carried out a credit search and it 
has provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Quid Market carried out a credit search there
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
Quid Market couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received  if necessary.
Having looked at the credit check results, I agree with Quid Market that Mr B only appeared 
to have 3 active accounts, a credit card  which was within £3 of its credit limit, a current 
account  that was almost at its £2,000 overdraft limit and, finally an advance against 
income loan that was opened in February 2021. Mr B was due to pay £131 per month for 
this loan but the account was in arrears  and had been for three months. So, while
Quid Market knew that Mr B only had a few accounts, it was also on notice that Mr B was 
having problems repaying one of these. 
Mr Bs recent repayment problems are also seen in the closed accounts  which was 
information Quid Market had access to. There were two Finance House loans repaid in 
June 2021  so the month before the loan was advanced. Mr B had problems repaying both 
of these loans because there were arrears markers in April and May 2021. 
While the credit check results clearly were not enough on their own to uphold the complaint, 
I do think, the evidence that Mr B had recent repayment problems across at least three 
different accounts and Mr B was now returning for his fifth loan from Quid Market in 17 
months ought to have really prompted it to have carried out further checks. This has led me 
to conclude that Quid Market didnt carry out a proportionate check before this loan was 
approved. 
Instead, I think Quid Market needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Bs actual financial 
position to ensure the loan was affordable beyond relying on what Mr B had declared about 
his income, outgoings and what the credit file showed. It also doesnt mean, just because I 
think further checks needed to have been carried out that the complaint will automatically 
uphold. 
Quid Market couldve carried out these additional checks, in a number of ways, it couldve 
asked for evidence of his outgoings such as copy bills. It couldve asked to see copies of 
Mr Bs bank statements or any other documentation it felt it needed to obtain in order to 
satisfy itself that it had carried out more robust checks. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be 
satisfied that had Quid Market carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it 
wouldve likely discovered that Mr B couldnt afford the loan or discovered it was likely 
unsustainable for him for some other reason.
Mr B has supplied copy bank statements from the time this loan was approved. It is entirely 
reasonably for me to consider what these statements show about Mr Bs financial position 
when the loan was advanced. But as Ive said above, obtaining copy bank statements was 
just one of the ways Quid Market couldve gone about verifying his financial position. The income Mr B declared income was accurate. However, 10 days before this loan was 
advanced Mr B borrowed £800 from a payday lender. There were also two other credits from 
payday loan companies in June 2021, which appear to have still be outstanding when this 
loan was advanced.  
In addition, I can see that Mr B had a flexible credit facility and the payments he was making 
to such a facility were over £900 per month. Mr B had paid this amount to the facility in June, 
May and April 2021. 
I can also see that throughout the month of June 2021  so only a matter of weeks before 
this loan was advanced, Mr B had repaid five payday loans  so although Mr Bs credit file 
didnt show all of these loans, I am satisfied that further checks wouldve highlighted to 
Quid Market that Mr B had a history of repaying a number of payday loans at the same time. 
Overall, Mr B appears to have had three outstanding payday loans at the time loan 5 was 
advanced, on top of which he had a flexible credit facility with a high-cost lender that was 
costing him around 50% of his income each month before any other commitments or living 
costs were paid. In the circumstances, given Mr Bs previous use of payday loans and the 
fact that he had three outstanding the time, plus the credit facility, ought to have made 
Quid Market realise that the loan was neither affordable nor sustainable for him. 
I am therefore upholding Mr Bs complaint about loan 5.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quid Market should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loan 5 to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quid Markets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quid Market shouldnt have given Mr B loan 5.
A. Quid Market should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan.
B. Quid Market should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Mr B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Quid Market should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.D. Quid Market should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to deduct tax from this interest. Quid Market
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market should put things right for Mr B as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman