DRN-2081533
The complaint
Mr M complains about what Nationwide Building Society did when someone paid money into 
his account by mistake. 
What happened
Mr M received a payment of just under £2,000 that had been sent to him by mistake. He told 
us this was the second time this had happened. The last time, about 18 months ago, 
Nationwide gave him a compensation payment, but this time it wouldnt. Mr M said there was 
supposed to be some system in place to stop this now. And he didnt think Nationwide 
should just take the money back again without asking him. He said Nationwide was treating 
him differently by just taking the money back, it wouldnt do that if his account wasnt in a 
healthy position. He felt he was being discriminated against. He also wanted to know why a 
letter telling him what had happened, dated 15 November, hadnt reached him until 22 
November. 
Nationwide said that someone else used incorrect details when transferring some money, 
and the money ended up in Mr Ms account. This money was never intended for Mr M, it 
didnt belong to him. So when Nationwide was told about this, it checked Mr Ms account. It 
could see that Mr M wouldnt be pushed into overdraft by taking the money back, so it took 
the money back. It has shown us that this is part of the terms of Mr Ms account.
Nationwide said if Mr M didnt have enough money to return the mistaken payment, it 
wouldnt just take the money. But it said that Mr M would still have to pay the money back. In 
that situation, it would arrange repayment with him. 
Nationwide expected the new confirmation of payment scheme (COP), recently launched, to 
reduce the chances of this happening in future, although it acknowledged that the risk 
couldnt be eliminated.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Nationwide 
made a mistake by not contacting Mr M before it debited the money from his account. He 
said it was part of the terms of Mr Ms account that any money which was transferred 
mistakenly into his account could be taken back out again by Nationwide. It didnt need to 
contact him about his first. Banks need to bear in mind that some people arent honest. 
Although there was no suggestion at all that Mr M might have moved the money out of his 
account before Nationwide could take it, our investigator said some people would. So 
Nationwide has to bear that in mind. 
Our investigator said Mr M was right to say that Nationwide would treat people differently if 
they didnt have enough money for the mistaken payment to be taken back. But our 
investigator didnt think that was wrong. He said that was just because banks wouldnt put 
someone into overdraft without warning them, especially because of the adverse 
consequences an unexpected overdraft can have. 
Our investigator could appreciate why Mr M would want to know straight away what had 
happened on his account. But he said there could be other reasons why Mr M didnt receive 
a letter dated 15 November until 22 November. Our investigator understood that this had 
happened before, and Mr M received a compensation payment then. But our investigator 
would only ask Nationwide to make a payment if it had done something wrong. And he didnt 
think it had.
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt explain why. Because he didnt agree, this case was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Someone paid money into Mr Ms account by mistake. Nationwide was satisfied that it was a 
mistake, and Mr M hasnt disputed that. I think Nationwide acted within the terms of Mr Ms 
account when it took this money back. 
I dont think its wrong for Nationwide to take the money from Mr M, just because it wouldnt 
do that if someone didnt have the funds available. As Nationwide has explained, that person 
wouldnt get to keep the money either. They may just have more difficulty paying it back. 
Mr M hasnt suggested that he would have tried to keep this money, and I wouldnt want to 
imply that at all. But Im sure Mr M will understand that other people do sometimes try to do 
that. So the bank would generally wish to act promptly to put matters right.
Mr M thinks that there should be additional checks before a bank transfer is made. The 
problem of bank transfers ending up in the wrong place has been widely acknowledged, and 
banks have been working for some time to set up a system which will reduce the risk of this 
in future. I know Mr M has been told all about this. 
I can hear, when Mr M spoke to Nationwide, he said he doesnt check his account often. It 
sounds to me as if Mr M was worried that if he checked his balance after a mistaken 
payment into his account, then he might just assume this was his money, and spend it. Then 
if Nationwide had just taken the money back, he might end up in overdraft. 
Mr M also complained that he wasnt warned before the mistaken payment was taken back 
out of his account. Our investigator explained why that might be necessary. But Mr M also 
made a general remark that when something like this happens, the bank should make more 
of an effort to contact him urgently, not just send a letter which is only received some days 
later. 
I know Mr M didnt get the letter Nationwide sent until some days later, so he wouldve 
preferred it to ring or email. Fortunately, I dont think that the delay in receiving the letter had 
any impact in this case. But if something had gone wrong in this case, because Mr M hadnt 
yet realised that a mistaken payment had been made and then retrieved, then I might have 
reached a different view here. 
But Im looking here at what did happen, not what might have happened. and in this case, 
fortunately, Mr M had sufficient funds to pay the money back. I note that Nationwide took the money back on the same day as Mr M received his salary. So he didnt accidentally slip into 
overdraft because of the payment. It looks to me as if Mr M wasnt adversely impacted by 
this mistake on this occasion. So I dont think Nationwide has to do more now, to provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. And that means that, although I know Mr M 
will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
I know this has happened to Mr M before, and I do hope that the new COP system means it 
doesnt happen again. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman