DRN-1912950
The complaint
Miss H complains that FCL Consumer Finance Ltd, trading as Smart Pig, lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from documents sent by both parties I have compiled this loan table. 
Loan Approved Amount Due Repaid Student 
Loan 
credited
1 30 March 2014 £250 20 April 2014 18 April 2014 £1,807 on 17 
April 2014
2 19 May 2014 £350 6 October 2014 27 September 
2014£1,684 on 29 
September 
2014
3 plus 
top-up9 October 
2014 
Top-up 24 Oct 
2014£350 
total£525 to pay after 
81 days
Due 13 January 
201513 January 
2015£1,684 on 12 
January 
2015
4 1 February 
2015£350 £525 to pay after 
78 days due 20 
April 201520 April 2015 £1,703 on 20 
April 2015
Smart Pig loans were aimed at the Student market. The credit agreements reflect this. Smart 
Pig has explained that it needed to see confirmation of the Student Loan dates and amounts 
before approving a loan. For Loans 3 and 4 we have seen the credit search results carried 
out by Smart Pig. The loans were for between 30 to 120 days and were meant to be paid off 
in one lump sum before the next Student Loan credit arrives. It could be repaid early. 
Miss H says that her outgoings exceeded her income and she was not able to afford these 
loans. She has referred to a £299 debt with a bank at the time and says, I didn't enough [sic] 
to live on for the next couple of months until my next student finance which caused me even 
more debt than ever. She has told us that she lived at home, paid rent to her mother when 
she could, and had to pay for her travel costs and some groceries. 
Smart Pig says it carried out proportionate checks and that a debt Miss H refers to was a 
pre-arranged overdraft facility which had been in place for over 12 months. 
Smart Pig has told us that the loan refusals seen on Miss Hs on-line screenshot of her 
account around this time relate to applications where documentation or dates were inputted 
incorrectly or the older website was used instead of the new one. These were corrected and 
the loans approved. So, they were not refused due to any financial assessment. The loans 
refused from 2016 onwards were due to Smart Pigs assessment of Miss Hs credit situation 
but are not relevant to this complaint as they post-date Loans 1 to 4. 
In February 2020 one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that 
Smart Pig had lent to her irresponsibly. The debt the adjudicator could see on Miss Hs credit 
search results (provided by Smart Pig) was a £299 overdraft debt. A default was registered 
but as it was in 2012 and pre-dated the loans by at least 18 months, then she did not think 
that would have been enough, on its own, to stop Smart Pig lending. Our adjudicator 
received copies of bank statements from Miss H and having looked at them her opinion did 
not alter. 
Miss H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. It was passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element 
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things, 
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Miss Hs main argument is affordability so it was important for me to check her income and 
expenditure. I had many copies of bank statements to view but they were difficult to read, 
and I asked Miss H to send to me a complete set in chronological order and scanned copies 
rather than photographs. I am grateful to Miss H for doing that as it has assisted in me 
seeing a comprehensive picture of her financial situation from March 2014 to February 2015. 
And Miss H has explained that a second account she had at the time was closed and she 
was not able to get statements easily. The account for which I do have the statements was 
her main account.
Having seen all the transfers in and out between the two accounts for Miss H it does seem 
that the main account was for everyday expenditure, bills and cash withdrawals, and her 
second account was used as a sort of holding account as the transfers in, appear to match 
the spending sums or bill payments going out. So, I am satisfied that I have enough 
information here. 
When reviewing the bank statements, what I do see is that Miss H had very little regular 
expenditure. I regularly see her phone bill (around £38 a month) and I can see sometimes 
that sums were transferred to another account or there is a large cash withdrawal. Miss H 
has marked these as rent, therefore I take these to be the payments to her mother. I have 
seen at least one payment back to Miss H of £200 which appears to be that same family 
member to whom she had recently paid £300. I have seen some travel costs. I have seen that Miss H received salary credits from a supermarket and as this was during 
the summer months and leading up to Christmas 2014 then I think that was a supplementary 
job and therefore additional income.
For Loans 1 and 2, early in the lending relationship, I would have expected Smart Pig to 
have carried out proportionate checks to gather information about her income and 
expenditure. I do know that Smart Pig did confirm the sums she was expecting to receive 
from the Student Loan organisation, so it knew her income for the relevant academic year.
I have not seen that it knew her outgoings, but if it had checked more details, then its likely 
that the figures Smart Pig would have seen amounting to her regular expenditure and 
essential outgoings are the ones I saw when reviewing her bank statements. 
And if Smart Pig asked Miss H for her outgoings at the time she applied, I doubt that the 
information she gave them amounted to figures likely to lead to Smart Pig refusing her loan. 
So, I do think that had Smart Pig carried out the proportionate checks I would have expected 
it to do then its likely it would not have considered the loans unaffordable. I do not uphold 
Miss Hs complaint about Loans 1 and 2. 
For Loans 3 and 4, I would have expected Smart Pig to have carried out further checks and 
so I looked at Miss Hs bank statements to see what it would likely have seen. For these 
loans Smart Pig had carried out credit searches and I have seen the results for those.
Overall, I am not persuaded that Miss Hs regular expenditure exceeded her income. And 
had Smart Pig carried out the additional checks for Loans 3 and 4 as our adjudicator 
considered it ought to have done, then its likely it would have seen from her bank 
statements what I have seen. Its not likely that Smart Pig would have seen debt and 
expenditure or regular credit commitments to lead it to think that the loans were 
unaffordable. 
I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman