DRN-3133030
The complaint
 Mr H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) changes to its overdraft pricing 
structure caused him financial difficulty and it continued charging him excessive amounts for 
his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Mr H complained to HSBC after it changed its overdraft pricing structure. He said the extra 
cost would make his overdraft more difficult to repay. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. And 
as Mr H was dis-satisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that HSBC ought 
to have realised that Mr H was experiencing financial difficulty by 2 March 2014 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. HSBC 
didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mr Hs 
overdraft from 2 March 2014. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr H was in no 
position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr H was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. HSBCs own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Mr Hs overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to have realised that Mr 
H wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mr Hs overdraft usage and instead continued charging 
in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr H ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mr H fairly and he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Hs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 2 March 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Hs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft on 2 March 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr H along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman