DRN-1608138
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. Mr M says 
he was mis-sold such a policy in 1997 with a new mortgage. Lloyds Bank PLC is responsible 
for the sale. 
What happened
The MPPI covered Mr M in the event of being unable to work or losing his job and cost 
around £34 per month.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint shouldnt be upheld, but Mr M disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint.
Broadly, Mr M raised two points of complaint. He says the MPPI was portrayed as something 
he was required to have with his mortgage, and also that he didnt need this type of cover 
because of the financial means he had at his disposal.
In relation to the first issue, Im afraid the evidence points the other way. The mortgage 
documents he filled out and signed in 1997 showed there was a choice about MPPI, with a 
yes and no option box included. Mr Ms form had the yes box ticked and he went on to 
authorise the monthly premiums to leave his bank account.
I therefore think hed have known, at the time, that he had a choice. Also, various other 
pieces of documentation from the sale Ive seen go on to set out the cost, who was covered 
and what was covered. I note Mr M borrowed more money later on, without applying MPPI to 
that portion of his borrowing. So, whilst I accept that Mr M may genuinely feel now that the 
policy was mis-sold to him, the actual physical evidence from 24 years ago shows he was 
given a choice. Its obviously possible Mr M doesnt remember all this now, but I think the 
records show Lloyds correctly obtained his consent.
Secondly, Mr M says he didnt need the cover. Lloyds concedes it recommended it to him as 
part of an advised sale so it needed to make sure the MPPI was suitable for Mr Ms 
particular situation. Understandably, Mr M refers to point of sale documents which hes 
retained, and which list his financial resources. He points out that he had some savings, 
some assets (such as a car) and certain life-related insurance policies and he implies these 
things made the MPPI unnecessary.
Ive considered all these things with great care. However, the point of sale documents Mr M 
refers to as listing his resources, also record that he wanted to be protected in the event of 
something unexpected happening, such as him losing his job or being too ill to work. And Im 
afraid I dont consider the things hes listed as being mutually exclusive to having mortgage 
protection. Life cover, for example, protects a different eventuality and whilst the savings 
would no doubt have been useful to him, Mr Ms mortgage was a substantial and long-term 
financial commitment. It was secured against his home and policies like the MPPI are there 
to help in financially difficult times. It could have paid out a monthly sum of over £500 for up 
to 12 months in the event of a successful claim.
Mr M was also eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend 
to see in these types of policy. I dont think the cost of the cover was substantially different 
from similar policies being marketed at the time and Ive seen nothing to say Mr M found the 
monthly premiums unaffordable. Ive considered he may also have had some sick pay 
through his job but again, this doesnt mean the MPPI wasnt of value. 
Overall, I think the MPPI was suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to make sure the information it provided was clear, fair and not misleading. I 
cant say whether Mr M was told everything about the policy or that Lloyds did everything 
right. But the disclosure of information does seem quite good for this sale. Ive mentioned 
this above, but he was given a schedule which basically outlined all the main aspects of the 
cover. He had enough, in my view, with which to make an informed decision.
Ive considered everything Mr M has said, including his opinion on whether he is due any of 
the commission Lloyds got from the sale. However, taking all the evidence and relevant 
dates into account, it shows there was most likely a lengthy discussion with the adviser 
about this policy which Mr M engaged in. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but the policy wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
I do not direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr M any compensation for the mis-ale or any 
commission element.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman