DRN-1973173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined their Contents 
Insurance claim.
All references to AXA include their agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AXAs report says entry appears to have been gained through a first-floor window to 
the side of the property, via the roof or a lean too. They said it appeared the thieves 
used items from a neighbours garden to lay across the roof of the glass lean too to 
gain access. 
AXA also said there were no signs of forced entry but noted muddy foot and hand 
marks in the bathrooms and toilet. They concluded the window wasnt appropriately 
locked which mean the intruders were able to enter the property without causing 
damage 
Because of this, AXA declined Mr and Mrs S claim as they havent fulfilled additional 
endorsements and requirements which were applied to their policy. The relevant 
wording in the policy endorsement says Mr and Mrs S will not be covered for loss or 
damage involving theft, attempted theft or malicious damage if any, or all, of the 
protections are not fitted, or not maintained in full working order - and if they were not 
being used at the time of the loss
The endorsement also says all accessible windows and skylights (accessible from 
the ground or from adjoining roofs and porches or via downpipes) must be fitted with 
locks and bolts, which are defined as key operated integral multipoint locking 
system and key operated window locking devices. Mr and Mrs S have said they 
didnt think the wording of these endorsements were clear. But Ive looked at the 
wording sent to Mr and Mrs S, and I think it clearly sets out what was expected in 
clear language
Mr and Mrs S disagree the window could be classed as accessible. I can appreciate 
why Mr and Mrs S feel this way, as the window may not seem to be accessible from 
an everyday means. Ive also considered all of the information theyve provided me 
from various sources about their opinions on the windows accessibility. Including the 
opinion of builders and neighbours. But Ive not seen any information to persuade me 
entry was gained in another way. 
AXAs report also includes a photo of the lean too and window with items of what 
seems to be wooden garden furniture laid across it, leading up to the window. They 
also noted no repairs were carried out to the window. So Im more persuaded by 
what AXA have said here.
As Im persuaded by AXAs explanation that the thieves gained access via the lean 
too roof, and there were no signs of forced entry, I think its more likely than not the 
locks werent engaged or in use. So I think it is fair for AXA to rely on the 
endorsement to decline Mr and Mrs S claim
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman