DRN-2024871
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that hes been sent a refund by Lloyds Bank PLC, but it wont explain to him 
in detail what that refund is for. 
What happened
Mr H said that Lloyds paid him a refund in December 2018, but despite repeated questions, 
he still hasnt got the full details of what the refund was for, and how it was calculated. Mr H 
said that meant he didnt know whether the refund had been calculated properly, or whether 
he was actually owed more money. 
Lloyds said the money it had paid was £38.80 in fees and a £15.02 payment of net 
compensatory interest. It then wrote again, and said it knew he was hoping for more 
information, but it wasnt able to clarify further with respect to such specifics. It said that all of 
the charges applied were in line with its terms and conditions. But it had identified a period 
when notification mailings werent sent out, so it had refunded charges incurred during that 
period. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Lloyds had given 
Mr H a breakdown. Although he could understand why Mr H was asking for more 
information, Lloyds had said it was planning to send that to him. So our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr H said the breakdown hed been given was of no use at all. He couldnt work out what 
had been paid back to him from this. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Lloyds has written to our service since our investigator issued his view, with more 
detail on the refund Mr H received. That email reads as follows  
Customer missed PNOC mailings (pre notification of overdraft interest and 
fees) during the period 07/11/2012  27/04/2013 due to the presence of 020 
and 659 indicators (gone away indicators). Therefore the customer missed 
mailings which pre-notified of interest and fees that would be incurred. 
On reviewing the 6 months before the first of these missed pre-notification 
letters, it was noted that the customer had consistently been overdrawn and 
been charged fees and interest during this period, so the customer was 
treated as always going beyond their overdraft limit. As a result only the first 
planned overdraft related fees in the 659 period have been refunded. 
So the total planned fees to be refunded was calculated as £38.80 based on 
planned overdraft related fees during 1 month. Additionally, interest was also 
refunded based on 8% simple (not compounded) annual interest over the 
period between the debit of the refunded fee and 13/12/2018. This interest 
came to £18.77 in total, however any interest charges attract UK tax and this 
amount of £3.75 was deducted from the final payment amount. 
So overall £53.82 was refunded after deducting tax of £3.75 (£38.80+£18.77-
£3.75) 
We asked Lloyds if it had sent the same information to Mr H at the same time as it 
sent this to our service. It told us it hadnt, but that it would send this to him if he 
registered a subject access request. 
I dont think that Mr H should have to raise a subject access request, or make a 
complaint to our service, to receive this sort of information. I think that this 
information shouldve been obtained for Mr H and communicated to him when he first 
asked. I note in particular that this information has tax implications. Mr H may have 
found it rather easier to deal with the implications of this information if it had been 
given to him before the deadline for his 2018/19 tax return. 
For those reasons, I propose to award Mr H £150 in compensation now.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied to accept my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr H £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman