DRN-1840516
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) and its agents handled a 
travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr E had annual multi-trip travel insurance with Aviva. Whilst abroad, Mr E suffered a 
medical emergency and contacted Avivas medical assistance company. Hes unhappy 
because he feels Aviva didnt provide the appropriate level of support in an emergency 
situation. As a result, he suffered stress, inconvenience, loss of time and costs in dealing 
with his claim whilst abroad and when he returned. 
Mr E is unhappy because he thinks Aviva were more interested in bureaucracy than 
providing assistance, that he had to pay hospital fees himself and reclaim them and with the 
fact Avivas agent gave him no help while he was abroad. When Mr E returned, he 
complained about the service he received and is unhappy with how his complaint was 
handled. Hes unhappy he was told he needed to complain in writing, he couldnt add further 
complaint points, the complaints handling team told him after a number of unreturned calls 
they generally didnt take calls, about inaccuracies in what he was told and with Avivas 
failure to take responsibility for the assistance companys failings. 
Aviva accepted they had made some mistakes in dealing with Mr Es claim and subsequent 
complaint and offered Mr E £250 compensation. Mr E didnt think this adequately reflected 
the poor service provided by Aviva. He brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered Mr Es complaint and said Aviva had done enough. He recognised Aviva could 
have provided Mr E with more support, Avivas agent didnt contact Mr E, some calls werent 
returned or were dropped, and Aviva should have allowed Mr E to make a telephone 
complaint, but felt the compensation offered was reasonable. Mr E didnt accept the 
investigators opinion. He said the investigator hadnt taken everything in to account, Aviva 
had no regard for his well-being and failed to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him. Mr E has also pointed to inaccuracies in the assistance companys records.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 April 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Although I havent commented on every 
piece of correspondence and evidence I have considered everything. Having done so, Im 
provisionally minded not to ask Aviva to do anything more. Ill explain why. 
Im sorry to hear Mr E suffered ill health while abroad. Having a medical emergency whilst 
abroad always involves a level of stress and inconvenience. What I need to decide is 
whether Aviva provided the cover Mr E could expect under his policy of travel insurance and 
whether they handled his claim reasonably. If I consider Aviva have made mistakes I need to 
consider the impact on Mr E. My role is not to punish or fine Aviva. 
As Mr E has a number of complaints Ive grouped them under headings below. Medical assistance company
Mr Es policy makes it clear Aviva uses a medical assistance company for medical 
emergency claims. There is nothing wrong with this, and its something many travel 
insurance companies do. The assistance company is an agent of Aviva, and so Aviva is 
responsible for the assistance companys actions. Mr Es policy says, 
24-hour Worldwide Medical Emergency Assistance service
The cost of the Medical Emergency Assistance Service will be met under this insurance. The 
service will be governed by the terms, conditions and exclusions in this Travel Insurance 
policy and will be operated by our appointed Medical Emergency Assistance provider.
Ill consider below the service provided by Aviva and their agents.
Lack of support putting health at risk
Ive looked at Avivas notes, listened to calls and reviewed Mr Es comments about the 
service he received. I understand that when Mr E first contacted the medical assistance 
company he was experiencing a lot of pain and wanted to know how to get help. Having 
listened to Mr Es early call Im satisfied the assistance company acting on behalf of Aviva 
provided the right advice. Mr E asked about an approved hospital and the handler correctly 
explained Aviva dont have a list of approved hospitals, but she could find the details of a 
local hospital. Alternatively, Mr E could go to a hospital of his choice. Mr E said hed find a 
hospital himself. He went to a local hospital, and was transferred from there to another 
hospital. I cant hold Aviva responsible for this. Whilst it was inconvenient, Mr E was moved 
so that he could be provided with appropriate care at a specialist hospital.
In the call referred to above, the handler then said she needed to read Mr E a consent 
wording. Mr E was unhappy with this, as he was feeling ill and wanted emergency help. At 
this point the handler said Mr E could hang up, go to a hospital and set the claim up later. I 
consider this to be reasonable advice. Mr Es policy of travel insurance says he should 
contact the emergency assistance company helpline before he makes any arrangements if 
he needs to seek emergency medical advice. It goes on to say,
If you cannot call before you are admitted as an in-patient because the condition is serious 
you must contact the Medical Emergency Assistance helpline number as soon as possible 
after you go into hospital.
Mr E mentioned the high cost of the call, and the handler asked if he wanted her to call back. 
Im satisfied this was the right thing to do. 
Mr E feels Aviva were more concerned about bureaucracy than helping him because in the 
above call the handler asked to read the consent wording and in a later call Mr E was asked 
to complete a verbal consent and disclaimer. I appreciate the most important thing to Mr E 
was to receive emergency medical treatment, but I consider Aviva acted reasonably in 
asking Mr E for information and consent. Insurers dont have to pay all medical emergency 
claims. They must consider whether each claim is valid in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. So, for example, Aviva needed to ask about Mr Es past medical 
history, because certain claims related to conditions previously suffered and not declared to 
Aviva wouldnt be payable. If Aviva accepted every claim without looking in to whether it 
should be covered premiums for all policyholders would rise significantly. I appreciate this 
seemed bureaucratic to Mr E, but cant say Aviva did anything wrong. If Aviva hadnt 
completed the disclaimer over the telephone they would have sent it to the hospital, which 
would have taken longer and may have delayed Mr Es treatment.Mr E has also referred to the fact he was asked to repeat information to Aviva a number of 
times when he was in pain. Its also clear some of Mr Es calls were dropped. I understand 
this cant have been easy for Mr E, but must balance this against Avivas need to ensure 
they are talking to the right person each time and to check information to ensure they 
provide appropriate help. I dont believe any calls were lost deliberately.
Overall, I dont agree Mr E wasnt provided with help and support while he was abroad. 
Aviva took appropriate steps to ensure cover was in place, contacted Mr E while he was in 
hospital to see how he was doing and asked whether Mr E had help and support while 
recovering. Whilst I understand Mr E had a difficult time abroad, I dont consider Aviva can 
be held responsible for this. Ive also not seen any evidence to suggest Avivas actions put 
Mr Es health at risk. 
Lack of help from Avivas agent
Aviva instructed a local agent to help them with Mr Es claim. This is not unusual and 
happens because local agents have knowledge of hospitals and procedures in their region 
and speak the language  meaning claims can be dealt with more efficiently. Mr E has 
pointed out that Aviva didnt have a representative in the city or state he was in, but I 
wouldnt expect them to. I dont believe its reasonable to expect Aviva to have 
representatives across the world.
Aviva instructed the agent on the day of Mr Es admission and asked them to get a medical 
report. This was necessary to understand Mr Es condition and establish if the claim was 
covered. The agents liaised with the hospital and got the report, allowing Aviva to confirm 
cover subject to the disclaimer. The agent did report to Aviva Mr E had been discharged 
from hospital when he hadnt been. I understand this caused some confusion but cant hold 
Aviva responsible if their agent wasnt given correct information when they contacted the 
hospital. Also, whilst the information wasnt correct, I cant see Mr Es treatment was affected 
by it and I note the position was clarified soon after. Mr E said in recent correspondence the 
mistake potentially impacted on his hospital stay, but I dont consider it did. And my role is to 
consider what actually happened, rather than what might have happened. 
I believe Aviva could have instructed their agent to provide more support to Mr E while he 
was in hospital abroad though. Ive covered this under the heading below.
Level of compensation offered
Mr E says the £250 compensation offered by Aviva doesnt reflect their lack of support in an 
emergency situation and the stress, inconvenience, time and cost whilst abroad and when 
he returned home. In particular, Mr E says the compensation figure doesnt even cover the 
cost of his calls and letters. 
Although Mr Es policy of travel insurance does not cover the cost of calls, I see Aviva paid 
Mr E £295.86 for calls made whilst abroad. This was the amount claimed by Mr E when he 
provided an itemised bill identifying the relevant calls. I consider Aviva acted reasonably and 
went beyond the terms of the policy in meeting these costs. There is no cover in Mr Es 
policy for costs incurred on his return home and while making a complaint. This is the same 
for any policy of travel insurance Im aware of. 
Mr E also claimed for the cost of a translator while abroad and Aviva paid him the full 
amount he claimed of £379.45 without asking for an invoice. Mr Es policy doesnt cover the 
cost of a translator, so Aviva paid for one outside the terms of Mr Es policy. Given this point, 
Im not asking Aviva to further compensate Mr E for the fact they didnt ask their agent to 
contact Mr E and see if he needed more help. In his recent submission to me Mr E has referred to various inaccuracies in Avivas file. I 
dont propose to consider whether each statement Mr E has referred to was correct, 
because I dont consider that even if I accept Mr E is right his care or the service provided to 
Mr E was affected while he was abroad. The medical information Mr E refers to though was 
taken from a translation of a medical report while Mr E was abroad. 
Overall, I consider the amount Aviva have already offered Mr E and the amount theyve paid 
outside of the terms of the policy exceeds any compensation I might award. Avivas offer is 
still open, and if Mr E wishes to accept it he should contact Aviva directly. 
Payment of hospital costs
Mr E said he made an initial credit card payment on admission to hospital abroad. At this 
stage Aviva hadnt had the opportunity to assess Mr Es claim and so werent in a position to 
guarantee payment for his treatment. So I wouldnt expect Aviva to authorise any costs on 
admission. Whilst Mr E was in hospital Aviva communicated with their agents about the 
payment of Mr Es medical expenses.  After Mr E was discharged from hospital Aviva 
discussed the payment of the remaining hospital fees with him. Mr E said he didnt want to 
use Avivas agent and would pay the remaining bill himself when he returned to the hospital 
for an injection. I appreciate Mr E made this decision because he felt Avivas agent hadnt 
added value, particularly as they said hed been discharged when he hadnt. But I cant say 
Aviva have done anything wrong in the circumstances. I understand Aviva refunded Mr E his 
emergency medical costs once he returned home, as Id expect.
Extensive costs incurred by Mr E
Mr E has referred to the extensive costs hes incurred as a result of the failings of Aviva. Ive 
not seen any evidence of these costs, other than the cost of calls. If Mr E has evidence of 
other costs covered by the policy which have not been met he should provide it in his 
response to this provisional decision. 
Further treatment in the UK
I understand Mr E has received further treatment since returning to the UK, which he says 
has been necessary because of Avivas lack of support abroad. Mr E received emergency 
medical treatment abroad on the day he reported symptoms. The following day Aviva 
confirmed cover on a cover on disclaimer basis, so I dont consider Aviva delayed Mr Es 
treatment or have contributed to Mr Es need for further treatment. Mr Es policy of insurance 
doesnt cover treatment once he has returned home. 
Complaints about Avivas complaint handling in the UK
This service operates under rules published by the Financial Conduct Authority on its 
website. These specify the types of complaints we can consider. Complaint has a specific 
definition, which is any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, 
from, or on behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial 
service, claims management service or a redress determination. Complaint handling is not 
in itself a financial service, a claims management service or a redress determination. So I 
cant help with Mr Es complaint about the service he received when he complained to Aviva 
on his return home.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva confirmed they are satisfied with my provisional decision and have nothing further to 
add. Mr E didnt accept my provisional findings. He said:The UK element of his costs are relevant to his dispute with AXA and were part of his 
original dispute and not raised in isolation. My provisional decision makes no 
reference to his costs or Avivas failure to respond to his correspondence on his 
return to the UK in a timely and accurate way. 
We have misunderstood our rules in respect of the service he received when he 
returned to the UK. 
If he went to court, and the court found in his favour, hed be entitled to his costs, so 
Mr E questioned why I discounted them.
I failed to address his complaint based on negligence and lack of client care abroad 
and on his return. Mr E asked if it is my opinion that Aviva werent negligent. 
Mr E referred to the fact Aviva said in a letter to him he was in a hotel abroad rather 
than hospital and asked whether I accept this as fact.
My reference to what the agent did was wrong. The agent didnt help and told Aviva 
hed been discharged from hospital when this wasnt the case. 
That Aviva failed in their duty to provide him with adequate care and support abroad 
and on his return to the UK is a matter of fact not opinion, and Aviva recognised this 
by offering £250.
I paid scant notice to Mr Es correspondence with Aviva in which he set out their 
failings and events abroad and in the UK. 
My review is not fair and balanced, and this is a matter of fact and not driven by 
emotion. 
There are a number of issues arising from this complaint that need to be addressed 
for the benefit of all Aviva customers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons
This service is an alternative dispute resolution service and operates differently to courts. 
We do not award costs in the same way as a court, and were not required to make findings 
of negligence. Instead, we consider all the available evidence to find an answer thats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. In doing so, we take in to account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
This is what Ive done in Mr Es case. 
It is in the nature of our work that one party will be disappointed in the outcome. I understand 
Mr Es opinion that my provisional decision wasnt balanced, but dont accept this as fact. 
I understand Mr E feels Ive not taken in to account all that hes told me, but this isnt the 
case. Id like to reassure Mr E that Ive considered all the evidence provided by both parties, 
even if I havent specifically referred to it. I have accepted some failings by Aviva while Mr E 
was abroad, and referenced the fact Aviva said he was in a hotel rather than hospital, which 
was incorrect, but I dont believe Aviva should further compensate Mr E. In my provisional 
decision I noted Aviva has met costs that are not covered by Mr Es policy amounting to 
£675.31. I also said if Mr E has evidence of other costs incurred, he should provide them in 
his response to my provisional decision. He hasnt provided any such evidence for me to 
consider. And I referred to Avivas offer of £250 and suggested that if Mr E now wishes to 
accept this sum, he should contact Aviva. Taking all of these matters in to account I dont 
consider Mr E should be paid further compensation. 
My comments on the actions of Avivas agent are based on notes made at the time. I 
appreciate Mr E feels the agent added no value at all and agree they could have provided more support. But I balanced this against the fact Aviva paid for a translator when they were 
not required by the terms of Mr Es policy to do so.
I turn now to Mr Es complaint about the complaint handling service he received when he 
returned to the UK. DISP 2.3 sets out the activities our compulsory jurisdiction apples to. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity or in the list of other activities we can consider 
complaints about. There is also case law that confirms a complaint about case handling isnt 
a complaint about a financial service and is not one we can consider. This means Mr Es 
complaint about Avivas actions and failings when he returned to the UK falls outside of this 
services jurisdiction. For this reason, I havent commented on Mr Es communications with 
Aviva when he returned home and complained to them. 
Mr E said there are issues arising from this complaint that need to be addressed for the 
benefit of all Aviva customers. I note Mr E's concern, but this service deals with individual 
complaints. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not asking Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more about Mr 
Es complaint about its handling of his claim while he was abroad, and I cant consider his 
complaint about the service he was provided with when he complained after he returned 
home.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman