DRN-4418373
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited have considered and offered to settle a 
home insurance claim he made.
Aviva are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Much of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Aviva accept they are accountable for the actions of 
their agents, in my decision, any reference to Aviva should be interpreted as also covering 
the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mr P and Aviva. In my decision, Ill focus 
mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr P had a home insurance policy with Aviva. Unfortunately, his property suffered fire 
damage in September 2021. Mr P raised a claim with Aviva but felt their offer to resolve the 
complaint was unfair and didnt fully indemnify him. 
He complained to Aviva and in their final response letter dated 17 May 2023, they offered to 
send out a loss adjuster to try and agree a scope of works and costs for the items that Mr P 
believes werent included in their scope of works.
Mr P remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our Service for an independent review. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
recommended that the offer from Aviva to send someone out was fair. As Mr P didnt accept, 
the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Mr P previously made a separate complaint to Aviva about claim delays and received a final 
response on 28 September 2022. My decision doesnt concern that complaint and will only 
be considering the final response letter dated 17 May 2023 around the scope of works and 
settlement amount. 
Have Aviva fairly considered this claim in line with the policy terms?
Mr P feels that Avivas scope of works doesnt fully indemnify him. By this I mean put him 
(his property) back in the position it was in prior to the fire damage. 
Ive compared the quote/scope of works provided by Mr P alongside the scope from Aviva. I 
find that there are certain works not included in Avivas that Mr P might expect to see. That 
said, it is often the case that the scope of works on behalf of an insurer can refer to general 
areas that need attention and not always go into the greater detail that a private scope of 
works might do. This isnt to say this is correct or the case here - Im just adding it for 
context. I also note that Mr P has said Aviva told him that once works have been completed 
some outstanding issues would be addressed (painting etc). This is fair and isnt unusual or 
unexpected. 
Is Avivas offer fair?
Aviva have said:
As you will note, the policy wording clearly states that we will not pay more than the 
cost of repairs confirmed could be completed by our preferred contractor. [Business 
agent name redacted by Ombudsman] have confirmed that our preferred contractor 
can complete the repairs for £19,426.64 which is the amount offered. Unless you 
avail of their offer for a further adjuster visit, your claim that items have been 
missed cannot be investigated and verified. [bold added for emphasis by 
Ombudsman].. I would advise that their offer will remain unchanged unless you 
allow for a further visit to be arranged and the discrepancies to be identified. 
[bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman]
As Mr Ps quotes arent drastically higher than Avivas costs, I find Avivas offer to send out 
another loss adjuster to be fair and reasonable. I acknowledge that Mr P has said he wants 
an independent person to be appointed, but I dont feel thats necessary at this point. 
Given the length of time this claim has been going on for, in the interests of bringing it to a 
close, the email from Mr P to Aviva dated 18 August 2022 should form the starting point for a 
review of their scope of works - as this highlights in detail what Mr P feels is missing. 
I cant advise Mr P on what to do next, but I would encourage him to avail of Avivas offer 
which I consider to be fair. Should a dispute remain after that, that would be grounds for a 
new complaint. I understand Mr Ps frustration given hes had a number of visits already, but 
I find its the next fair step to allow this claim to move forward. As it currently stands, I dont 
conclude, on balance, that Aviva have acted unfairly here when making their offer to arrange 
another site visit. 
My decision may disappoint Mr P, but it brings to an end our Services involvement, at this 
time, in trying to resolve this particular dispute with Aviva. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman