DRN-3288983
The complaint
Mr M has complained about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim under a 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr M had a landlords insurance policy, which included home emergency cover, for a 
property he owned. He contacted UKI to report a loss of heating and hot water at the 
property. UKI sent an engineer. The engineer bled the radiators and repressurised the 
system. The heating and hot water was restored.
A few days later, Mr M contacted UKI again because the boiler had lost pressure. UKI sent 
an engineer who found a leak. A new part was then fitted. A couple of days later, the boiler 
had an error message, so UKI, again, sent an engineer. The engineer said a leak detection 
company would be needed to find the source of the issue. Leak detection wasnt covered by 
the policy.
Mr M arranged for a leak detection company to visit. That company found a leak coming 
from a radiator. So, Mr M complained to UKI because he said the UKI engineer should have 
been able to find source of the leak, rather than him having to pay for a leak detection 
company to visit.
When UKI replied to the complaint, it said its engineer had carried out a range of work to try 
and deal with the reported issues. However, the tenants hadnt allowed the engineer to 
check all of the radiators. It was also appropriate for the engineer to have said a leak 
detection company was required.
So, Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he 
didnt think the UKI engineer should have found the leak. The engineer only had limited 
access to the property, as the tenants didnt want him to check all of the radiators. The leak 
detection company had also used specialist equipment to find the source of the leak.
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
From what Ive seen, UKIs engineer tried to find the source of the issue with the boiler. 
However, he reached a point where he had identified there was a leak but was unable to find 
the source of it. Mr M has said the engineer should have been able to find the leak, as it was 
from a radiator in the hall and the leak was visible. So, Ive thought about this.
Mr M has provided the leak detection report. He also provided a later comment from the leak 
detection company that said:
We spoke yesterday about your leak and Ive got a response from the engineer  saying it 
wasnt obvious but probably should have been found if a professional plumber was 
searching for it, so it didnt need our specialist equipment specifically in this instance to find 
that leak is the main point here.
Ive looked at the report itself. This had a section called Description of problem as reported 
by customer, which said:
Boiler losing pressure, 1.5 bar to 0 within 10 hours. Extension raised flooring, concrete 
flooring. No sealant as far as aware. 10 radiators. No visible evidence. Boiler itself okay, 
changed PRV.
The Observations upon arrival section said: Heating working. Boiler pressure below 1 bar. 
No obvious signs of a leak.
The report went on to say:
The heating was drained and pressurised to 1.5 bar for 30 minutes. There was a pressure 
drop of approximately 0.25 bar over the test period. The heating pipework was then 
pressurised again, and the ground floor was checked using the acoustic equipment. The 
sound of the leak was located by the hallway radiator farthest from the front doorway. On 
further inspection the leak was found to be coming from an area of corrosion on the back of 
the radiator. A damp area was found on the floor and skirting board at the back of the 
radiator. The radiator was removed, and the heating system was re-tested at 1.5 bar for 30 
minutes. No drop in pressure was observed over the test period. The heating was refilled 
and checked and found to be working correctly.
So, based on what the report said, there werent visible signs of a leak and the leak 
detection company used acoustic equipment, which was specialist equipment, to find the 
source of the leak. This identified that it was a radiator in the hallway, which had corrosion 
on the back of it. 
Even though the leak detection company later said a professional plumber should have 
found the leak by searching for it, Im not persuaded that was the case. In my view, that isnt 
consistent with the findings or actions of the leak detection company when it was at the 
property. It said there werent any visible signs of a leak and it used specialist equipment to 
find the source of it. Although, with hindsight, it might have thought it could have been found 
by other means, the engineer didnt seem to think that at the time and seemed to reach the 
same conclusion as the UKI engineer, which was that specialist equipment was required to 
find the leak. 
So, thinking about all of the above, I think the way UKI dealt with the claim was reasonable, 
including saying leak detection was required. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or 
require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman