DRN-1689135
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M says St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 2009.They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint for the following reasons.
The PPI was sold three years after the mortgage started, and St Andrews has records 
showing that the PPI was discussed. So, I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve been aware that 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it. 
St Andrews recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, and it seems to have been right for 
them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. The PPI wouldve paid out 
for up to 12 months if Mr or Mrs M had been unable to work. Thats on top of their existing 
sick and redundancy pay  making those employee benefits last up to 12 months longer. It 
wouldve protected their savings, as they wouldnt have had to dip into them to keep up with 
their mortgage payments for up to 12 months. So, I think the policy was suitable. 
Mr and Mrs M now think they had sufficient cover without the PPI. But at the time, the PPI 
was discussed and they chose how to split the cover between them. I think that suggests 
that they thought it would be useful at the time they agreed to buy it.
Its possible that St Andrews couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs M would still have bought it. It wasnt expensive given the 
cover it provided, and it appears to have been affordable for them.
Its possible St Andrews didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and 
Mrs M dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
St Andrews is the insurer of the PPI in this case, not the lender. And the PPI protected a 
regulated mortgage. So, the regulators rules on high levels of undisclosed commission and 
profit share dont apply. Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ms comments, including what theyve said about having 
death in service, endowment, life and critical illness cover. But these points dont change my 
conclusion. Those types of cover would pay out in different circumstance  for example on 
death or the diagnosis of specific serious illnesses. So, they wouldnt have helped in the 
same situations that the PPI would have. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman