DRN-3986460
The complaint
Miss J complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) irresponsibly gave her a credit 
card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 22 January 2020, Miss J applied for a credit card account with Sainsburys. She was 
given an initial credit limit of £1000. The credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Miss J complained to Sainsburys to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Sainsburys ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss J didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Sainsburys will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Js complaint is that Sainsburys made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Sainsburys has explained that it relied in part on information that Miss J provided at the 
time of the application to assess affordability. Sainsburys said they carried out a credit 
search in Miss Js name to assess her level of debt at that time and to understand how she 
had been managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, 
Sainsburys decided not to agree the credit limit of £6,500 that Miss J had requested in her 
application. Sainsburys referred the case to one of their underwriters to assess affordability. 
So, it seems that Sainsburys were taking Miss Js affordability seriously at the time it made 
its lending decision. And the fact that Sainsburys passed the decision to an underwriter also 
reflects that the decision was not a straightforward one.
The income that Miss J declared was not modest. And the Sainsburys checks showed that 
Miss J already owed an amount in unsecured borrowings that was a significant amount of 
revolving credit borrowing but it wasnt immodest when compared to the good salary that 
Miss J declared. 
Sainsburys told us that the credit checks they performed showed that Miss Js credit file 
was very clean at the time of the loan application. I have noted the credit file that Miss J 
provided. It supports the information that Sainsburys said they gathered at the time. The 
credit file shows that Miss J had no immediate history of defaults, CCJs or arrears on her 
credit. So, it seemed from the credit checks that at the point that the lending decision was 
made, Miss J was affording her existing credit. 
So, I have seen insufficient evidence that the other information that Sainsburys acquired or 
had presented to it at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to think that they 
were remiss in not checking Miss Js expenditure more closely, especially in view of the 
modest credit limit they eventually offered Miss J.
I say that because Sainsburys declined Miss Js request for a credit limit of £6,500 and 
offered, based on the information it had presented to it and that it secured for itself, that it 
would lend a credit limit of £1,000. At the point that Miss J applied for the credit card there 
was nothing from the credit reference agency that made that level of credit automatically 
unreasonable or that would have put Sainsburys off supplying the credit. And having 
considered all the submissions made in this case, I think that was reasonable. 
In this case, I have also noted that the first use of the card was for a series of balance 
transfers. Within three months of getting the credit, Miss J had completed balance 
transfers that were the equivalent of her credit limit. The credit card had offered a 
promotional offer of 0% interest on balance transfers until 12 August 2021. 
So, I dont see the new credit card as evidence solely of new credit being provided by 
Sainsburys, adding to an already significant amount of personal borrowing. Instead, it 
looks more likely that Miss J was taking steps, that could be termed sensible, to manage 
her existing debt by taking out this card and using it to secure more favourable terms to 
existing credit. I say that because Miss J would have been saving money on interest she 
would have been paying elsewhere. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for 
Sainsburys to have facilitated that.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Sainsburys provided Miss J was unreasonable. Further, 
Im not persuaded that the way Miss J was managing her account or what Sainsburys 
could see of her management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted 
differently than it did. 
I know that Miss J will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss J to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman