DRN-2880801
The complaint
Ms W complains about how Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) has administered and 
managed her hire purchase agreement following her decision to voluntary terminate it.
What happened
In June 2016 Ms W entered into a hire purchase agreement (agreement) with Black Horse 
for a car. 
In February 2020 Ms W contacted Black Horse to enquire about voluntarily terminating her 
agreement. 
In March 2020 Black Horse received the relevant paperwork from Ms W for the voluntary 
termination of her agreement. 
On 24 June 2020 the car was collected from Ms W.
On 31 July 2020 Black Horse wrote to Ms W to inform her that she owed £339.71.
On 25 August 2020 Black Horse wrote to Ms W to say that it would no longer be actively 
seeking recovery of the sum of £339.71 and to remind her that her agreement would remain 
marked as being in default (with credit reference agencies) for six years from the date it was 
first registered as being in default.
Ms Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
having paid Ms W £100 then all Black Horse needed to do was to refund Ms W any cost she 
had incurred (and could evidence) in respect of Vehicle Excise Duty (car tax) for March, 
April, May and June 2020.
Black Horse didnt respond to the investigators view.
Ms W responded to the investigators view to say that she didnt accept it.
Because Black Horse didnt respond to the investigators view, and because Ms W didnt 
accept it, the complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Its clear Ms W has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed 
submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Ms W will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I accept that Ms W experienced some delays when trying to get through to Black Horse on 
the phone. But I think these delays, in all the circumstances, were both reasonable and 
understandable. It should also be remembered that at this point in time businesses were still 
trying to adjust to new and different ways of working because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
I accept that Black Horse sent a letter to Ms W when she had asked for all correspondence 
be sent by email. But in my view although this would have been frustrating for Ms W, Im not 
persuaded it would have caused her material distress or inconvenience.
I accept that there was a delay in the car being collected. But other than a small amount in 
respect of car tax (more on this point later) I cant see that this delay has caused Ms W a 
financial loss. 
I say this because in March 2020 Black Horse marked the agreement as requiring no further 
payments from Ms W (her last payment having been received on 21 February 2020), the 
balance for voluntary termination having been crystallised at £339.71, and the car was now 
covered under its block insurance policy and didnt need insuring separately and individually 
by Ms W. 
I would also add that although Ms W shouldnt lose out as a result of the delay in the car 
being collected, this delay was entirely reasonable and understandable given at this point in 
time businesses were still trying to adjust to new and different ways of working because of 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms W says an email she was sent by Black Horse didnt address her complaint, but simply 
reiterated and repeated what she had already been told, or knew. But in my view, it was 
entirely appropriate for Black Horse to send this email and Im not persuaded that the receipt 
of it would have caused Ms W anything other than minor frustration.
Ms W disputes the balance Black Horse says she still owes following her decision to 
voluntary terminate her agreement. Notwithstanding what the investigator said on this point I 
can confirm Ive seen insufficient evidence to conclude that the figure of £339.71 is wrong. 
Therefore, I dont uphold this aspect of Ms Ws complaint.
Ms W says that she was provided with poor service and incorrect advice during two phone 
calls in April 2020. Ive listened to both calls and I can confirm that Im satisfied that 
Black Horse didnt provide Ms W with a poor level of service. 
Im also satisfied that Black Horse didnt give Ms W incorrect or inappropriate advice when it 
said she could cancel her insurance because the car would be covered under its block 
policy. So, I see no reason to direct Black Horse to make any refunds in this respect.Now I dont think Black Horse gave Ms W incorrect advice when it said she could cease 
paying car tax by making a SORN. But even if I was to accept that this advice was 
inappropriate, I cant see that Ms W relied on it to her detriment. So, with this in mind, I find 
that the investigators view that Black Horse should refund any cost Ms W incurred (and is 
able to evidence) in respect of car tax for March, April, May and June 2020 represents a fair 
outcome to this aspect of Ms Ws complaint.
Finally, and for the avoidance of doubt, I would add that Ive seen nothing that would lead 
me to conclude that Black Horse, in its dealings with Ms W, breached any of its regulatory 
obligations, including those specifically cited by Ms W.
Given what I say above I find that having already paid Ms W £100 all Black Horse now 
needs to do is to refund any car tax that Ms W can evidence she paid for March, April, May 
and June 2020, but it need do nothing further.
My final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited must refund any car tax that Ms W can 
evidence she paid for March, April, May and June 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman