DRN-1747930
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are dissatisfied with what Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has offered 
to do to put things right following their complaint about a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H complained that Halifax mis-sold a PPI policy alongside their mortgage. 
Halifax has investigated this a number of times. First, in 2014, Halifax concluded that Mr and 
Mrs H hadn't bought PPI to begin with. But after Mr and Mrs H contacted Halifax more 
recently, Halifax looked into the complaint again.
First, in March 2019, Halifax said the policy wasn't mis-sold - and although it hadn't told Mr 
and Mrs H about the commission it got from selling them the PPI, their mortgage wasn't 
covered by the Financial Conduct Authority's new rules for that type of complaint.
Following further contact, in June 2019, Halifax reassessed the complaint and agreed to 
uphold it. It offered to refund the premiums Mr and Mrs H paid towards the policy, plus 
compensatory interest for the time they'd been out of pocket. After tax, they offered to pay 
Mr and Mrs H £3,486.12.
Mr and Mrs H think they should get more.
First, Mr H says he's spent over 50 hours dealing with this complaint - time he says he could 
have been working. He's also had to pay for things like postage. He thinks he should get 
back the cost of dealing with the complaint, as well as compensation for all the 
inconvenience this caused
Second, Mr and Mrs H say that Halifax have admitted it didn't tell them about the 
commission and profit share it got - and this was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but thought that what Halifax had already offered 
was fair. Mr and Mrs H didn't agree with the adjudicator. The complaint has been referred to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has agreed the policy was mis-sold, so I don't need to look at that further in this 
decision. In this decision I'm looking at whether what Halifax has offered is fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a PPI policy was mis-sold, I'd tell the business to 
put the consumer in the position they'd be in if they hadn't bought the policy. Halifax says 
Mr and Mrs H paid £2,016.60 towards the PPI, and Mr and Mrs H get this back.As Mr and Mrs H have been out of pocket, Halifax has also awarded interest - the rate is 8% 
simple per year - from the date they paid each premium until the date they got it back. This is 
to compensate Mr and Mrs H for the time they haven't had this money. HM Revenue and 
Customs requires Halifax to deduct income tax from this interest. So Mr and Mrs H get 
£1,469.54.
In total Halifax has paid Mr and Mrs H £3,486.14. Halifax sent this by cheque, which I 
understand Mr and Mrs H have cashed.
Based on what I've seen I'm satisfied that Halifax has refunded the extra Mr and Mrs H paid 
towards the PPI - and included compensation for the time they haven't had this money.
I've considered whether Halifax needs to pay more.
First, Mr and Mrs H want compensation for the time they took to pursue this complaint, 
together with the costs of copying and sending all the paperwork to the business. I've 
carefully considered this. Mr and Mrs H say this comes to around £780. But while I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs H feel strongly they should get this money back, I'm not 
persuaded these costs were reasonable. The complaint isn't particularly complicated, and Mr 
and Mrs H appear to have known throughout this correspondence that they could refer the 
complaint to us if they were still unhappy - and that would have just taken a phone call or an 
email. Mr and Mrs H chose to continue corresponding with the business when they didn't 
need to - and so this isn't something I'm going to award compensation for.
Similarly, Mr and Mrs H have asked for a goodwill payment to reflect the trouble and 
inconvenience they've suffered. They've suggested Halifax pay £720.
Where I award compensation for trouble or upset, distress or inconvenience, this isn't to 
punish the business but to reflect the impact its actions had on the consumer.  The 
compensation Halifax has already paid includes compensation for the time they've been 
deprived of the money - and while I appreciate it took a while to sort things out, Halifax has 
apologised. I'm also mindful that Halifax looked at Mr and Mrs H's complaint again when it 
didn't have to: it could instead have just referred them back to its response in 2014 and 
refused to consider the matter further. And so I don't think that any inconvenience Mr and 
Mrs H have suffered warrants further compensation.
Finally, I've considered the points Mr and Mrs H have raised about the commission and profit 
share Halifax got. The Financial Conduct Authority introduced rules covering how 
businesses need to look at this type of complaint in 2017 - but these rules do not apply to Mr 
and Mrs H's mortgage. That said, Halifax has already agreed to refund everything Mr and 
Mrs H has paid towards the PPI - and so this refund already includes any commission it got. 
Halifax has refunded everything Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI, and awarded interest to 
compensate them for the time they've been out of pocket. In all the circumstances, I think 
what Halifax has awarded is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I think Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has awarded fair 
compensation for mis-selling PPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Edward HardmanOmbudsman