DRN-2564306
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how Acromas Insurance Company Limited dealt with their 
claim for roadside assistance. 
Any references to Acromas include their agents.  
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made. Some information has been included for 
context and background purposes only. 
Mr and Mrs M have a car breakdown policy. It provides cover for the car to be fixed at the 
roadside, or if it cant be, for it to be taken to a garage. Mr and Mrs M also have an extension 
on the policy which provides for the onward journey. Acromas are the insurer for this 
section of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M broke down around 7pm in the evening and called for assistance. The car 
couldnt be fixed, so Mr and Mrs M had to wait at the roadside with the patrol vehicle. 
Mr and Mrs M broke down during the Covid-19 national lockdown which meant certain 
services were limited. It is for this reason, Mr and Mrs M werent taken home by the patrol 
vehicle as would normally have been offered. Acromas attempted to arrange a hire car for 
them.
Some three hours later Mr and Mrs M were still at the roadside. The patrolman had stayed 
with them during that time and eventually decided to take them himself, to the nearest 
service station to continue their wait. Mr and Mrs M made Acromas aware during a call at 
this time that Mr M was unwell.
Sometime after 11pm Mr M was told no hire cars were available and they were offered the 
opportunity to take a taxi home. In a call with Acromas just after 11:30pm Mr and Mrs M 
explained that given how far away they were from home and the Covid-19 lockdown, they 
had concerns about getting in a taxi with an unknown person for such a significant amount of 
time. Further calls were made to Acromas but no further alternatives or solutions were 
offered.
Mr M has various medical conditions and as time passed, the situation became more 
stressful for him and, Mrs M. Due to the impact Mr Ms health, the emergency services were 
called in the early hours of the next morning. Mr and Mrs M were then taken by the 
emergency services to a hotel, to stay for the rest of the night. Mr and Mrs M returned home 
the next day in a hire car. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to Acromas about the way they were treated. They were unhappy 
they were left at a service station with little assistance and the severe impact this had on 
Mr Ms health. They also raised issues about the way in which their car was returned to 
them. 
Acromas apologised for the way Mr and Mrs M had been treated. It explained its services 
were limited at the time Mr and Mrs M broke down which was unavoidable. It confirmed no 
hire cars were available that evening but, an offer was made for a taxi which was 
understandably declined.  Acromas offered Mr and Mrs M £150 compensation for the service 
they received and to pay for their hotel stay. 
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service as they were unhappy with Acromas 
response. 
Our investigator explained to Mr and Mrs M this service is limited to only considering the 
cover provided under the onward journey section of their policy, as this is the only part of 
the policy which is insured. This started from the point their vehicle was deemed unfixable to 
the time when they were provided with a hire car. She explained the service cant consider 
Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about how long it took for someone to attend to them at the 
roadside or, the issues they had with their car being returned to them. 
However, having considered what happened, the investigator thought the complaint should 
be upheld. She said Acromas was made aware that Mr M had medical conditions and 
although no specifics were mentioned, it was aware at that point he was a potentially 
vulnerable person. The investigator identified the possibility of an overnight hotel stay was 
an option under the onward journey section of the policy. Because of this, she thought 
Acromas should have offered this option to Mr and Mrs M. And, had they of done so, the 
impact the situation had on Mr M could have been less severe and the time they were left 
waiting reduced.  The investigator recommended that in addition to meeting the hotel costs, 
Acomas should pay a total of £350 compensation. 
Acromas disagreed. It pointed out the onward journey section of the policy offers the 
customer a choice of one of three options. In this case, it actually paid out for two of them, 
the hotel stay and the hire car. It said Mr and Mrs Ms priority was to return home and it did 
its best to arrange this for them. It didnt agree the compensation payment should be 
increased from £150. It also reiterated the breakdown happened during the Covid-19 
lockdown and therefore services were limited. It asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
Mr M has made it clear that money isnt important to him. He wants Acromas to understand 
how severely its actions impacted him, to ensure as far as possible, the situation doesnt 
happen to anyone else in the future.  
The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate Mr and Mrs M are very unhappy about the whole situation, the fact it took 
so long for them to be recovered from the roadside and then onto the service station. That 
they were left for many hours at the service station, with the emergency services eventually 
having to take them to a hotel. And then, their car was delivered to the incorrect place when 
it was returned, with keys left under the wheel arch. 
However, as the investigator explained, in this decision, I only have the power to look at 
what happened after their car was deemed unfixable, up until they were provided with car 
hire the next day. Acromas has admitted its service could have been better but it disagrees with how the 
complaint should be put right. Specifically, how much compensation it should pay to Mr and 
Mrs M. So, this is what I need to consider.  
Ive first looked at the relevant policy terms to see what options could have been offered to 
Mr and Mrs M that evening. The policy says Mr and Mrs M could choose from a replacement 
car, public transport costs or overnight hotel stay.
In this case, Acromas couldnt offer a hire car that evening as none were available. It did 
offer Mr and Mr M the option of a taxi. However, I fully understand Mr and Mrs Ms concerns 
about taking a taxi, especially given the time the breakdown took place, the concerns about 
Covid-19 and the long distance they had to travel. Given the fact the same reason had been 
cited to them, to explain why they couldnt be taken home in the patrol vehicle, I dont think 
their concerns were unreasonable. 
That left the option of a hotel stay. 
Acromas were made aware in a call at around 10:40pm Mr M had medical conditions 
although not the specifics of these. I havent been able to establish if Acromas asked Mr or 
Mrs M if they were willing to provide those details so it could better understand their 
circumstances. Based on what happened however, I think its more likely than not it didnt, 
as I think if it had of done, what happened later in the evening could have been mitigated to 
an extent.
At 11:30pm Acromas were aware no hire car was available, and a taxi wasnt an option. 
However I cant see that any mention was made of the possibility of an overnight hotel stay.  
It seems at that point, Acromas were content to leave Mr and Mrs M at a service station 
overnight until a hire car could potentially be sourced the next day. I dont think, based on 
what information they did have about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, this was reasonable. 
Acromas has said they didnt mention a hotel stay as Mr and Mrs M were focussed on 
getting home. While that may have been the case, as time went on, I think it should have 
been mentioned so that Mr and Mrs M could have had that choice. Given how the situation 
was impacting Mr M, and based on the fact the emergency services suggested this early the 
next morning, I think Acromas missed an opportunity here and it is something Mr and Mrs M 
may have considered given the other options werent possible at that time. 
Acromas has made a point about the fact services were limited due to the Covid-19 
lockdown. I must stress that I fully appreciate this, however the fact remains in this instance, 
it didnt offer Mr and Mrs M all of the options that were available under the policy. Whether 
Acromas arranged this directly or Mr and Mrs M were expected to find a hotel is, to a certain 
extent irrelevant, as the option wasnt mentioned so Mr and Mrs M couldnt have considered 
it.  
Its always difficult to put a figure on an amount of compensation that reflects the impact a 
situation has had on an individual. And, its important to remember that this will vary from 
person to person, depending on their experiences and circumstances at the time.  
When considering what a fair amount is in this case, Ive taken into consideration what 
Mr and Mrs M have explained about what happened that evening, how it impacted them and 
how it escalated to the emergency services being called. Mr M explains that he was driven to 
the edge of despair and the emergency services were called due to concerns about his 
welfare.
I have however also considered the fact the breakdown happened during the Covid-19 lockdown and services at that time were limited. And, Ive also taken into account Acromas 
has paid for the hotel stay as well as the hire car, when strictly as per the policy terms it only 
had to provide cover for one of these.  
Overall however it is clear to me this situation became very distressing for Mr M and I do 
think Acromas could have done more to recognise his vulnerability. I think it underestimated 
the impact the situation was having on Mr and Mrs M and why it was important to find a 
solution to the matter. There were steps available to it, which it could have offered earlier to 
potentially lessen that impact. 
I realise nothing will truly put matters right for Mr and Mrs M. And, I recognise Mr Ms 
strength of feeling about what happened that evening.  However, I think £350 compensation 
is a reasonable amount for Acromas to pay to reflect the impact its poor service had on 
them. 
Putting things right
Acromas should pay Mr and Mrs M a total of £350 compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited. To put things right it should pay Mr and Mrs M a total of £350 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman