DRN-3259342
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that TBO Services Limited renewed a commercial 
insurance policy after it had been told not to.
What happened
B held a commercial insurance policy with an insurer. TBO Services acted as Bs broker and 
had arranged the policy for B.
The policy was due to renew on 9 January 2021. TBO Services sent B the renewal pack on 
16 December 2020, and followed this up on 18 December 2020. Bs director spoke with TBO 
Services in January 2021 about the renewal. The renewal then went ahead. 
In April 2021, B sold the office space that was insured. 
In October 2021, Bs director noticed that the monthly direct debit was still being collected. 
He contacted TBO Services and found out the policy had renewed. He complained about 
this, and said hed called TBO Services before the renewal to say he didnt want the policy to 
renew.
TBO Services looked at its records but couldnt find any record of Bs director advising it that 
he didnt want to renew the policy. Unhappy with TBO Services response, B brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think TBO Services 
had done anything wrong. 
Bs director didnt agree with our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I havent seen the renewal email that was sent on 16 December 2020. However, Ive 
seen the follow-up document about the renewal that was sent to B on 18 December 
2020. This made it clear that the policy would renew automatically if the premiums 
were paid by direct debit.
Ive listened to a call that took place between Bs director and TBO Services in early 
January 2021. During that call, the parties discussed the renewal, and Bs director 
said hed review the renewal documents and decide whether he wanted to renew, or 
shop around. 
Bs director said he called TBO Services again, and confirmed he didnt want to 
renew the policy. However, TBO Services doesnt have a record of that call. 
Unfortunately, Bs director couldnt remember which phone number he had called 
from, but TBO Services said it would be willing to search its records again if he could 
provide it with another number. I think that was reasonable. 
B didnt receive any confirmation from TBO Services or the insurer that the policy 
wouldnt renew. B also continued to pay the monthly premiums by direct debit. 
I dont find that TBO Services did anything wrong here. Theres no evidence to 
support that Bs director had told TBO Services not to renew the cover. 
Bs director says that he sold the insured property in April 2021. Bs director hasnt 
provided us with evidence of this. Though if this is correct, then B may wish to make 
a complaint to the insurer of the policy to see if itll refund the premiums paid after the 
property was sold. If it doesnt do so, B may be able to bring a new complaint to this 
service. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman