DRN-3093434
The complaint
Mrs L complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) handling of her claim 
following an escape of water under her building insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs L returned home to find a spray of hot water and steam escaping in 
her kitchen. She says this caused damage to a wide area including the kitchen fittings, 
flooring as well as into the living room. 
Mrs L contacted RSA. It inspected the damage and agreed to cover the claim. After an initial 
assessment, it was suspected that the floor tiles contained asbestos. Following testing this 
was found to be the case and a specialist was brought in to remove the tiles in December 
2020. Works were planned out to ensure the property was dry and to repair and replace the 
damaged areas. 
Mrs L remained living in the property initially. An electrician checked the electrical installation 
was safe to use. She went on holiday for most of December 2020. When she returned the 
repairs were ongoing, but alternative accommodation had been arranged for her to stay in 
an apartment. The repair work took longer than anticipated and the apartment was 
unavailable for Mrs L to stay in beyond the first week.
RSA struggled to find similar accommodation and a hotel was all that was available. Mrs L 
found accommodation she thought was suitable, but the company was unable to go outside 
of its set process and arrange this accommodation. 
Mrs L remained in hotel accommodation until she was able to return to her property at the 
beginning of the second week in February 2021. During this time RSA was able to offer 
some alternative options for accommodation, but none were suitable for Mrs L. A disruption 
allowance was provided for the time she was in hotel accommodation calculated at £10 per 
day, amounting to a total payment of £380.  
Kickboards were replaced in the kitchen, but it was found these did not match the rest of the 
units. RSA subsequently agreed to replace the whole kitchen because of this mis-match. 
When returning home Mrs L found the kitchen sink drain had been disconnected, when the 
old washing machine had been removed, causing a leak. 
Mrs L felt the standard of communication from RSA was poor, and she had to make regular 
contact to resolve issues and try and sort out suitable accommodation.
RSA apologised that Mrs L wasnt happy with its service. It said it was unavoidable that 
some inconvenience would be experienced in these situations. The company partially upheld 
the complaint, because of the need for Mrs L to arrange a plumber to resolve the issue with 
the pipework under the sink. 
Mrs L wasnt happy with this outcome and referred to this service.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought it was known the kickboards 
wouldnt match at an early stage  meaning this delayed the new kitchen being installed. He 
thought the disturbance allowance while Mrs L was in hotel accommodation was 
appropriate. But felt the alternative accommodation part of the claim could have been 
managed and communicated better. He suggested RSA pay Mrs L £300 compensation for 
these failings. 
RSA agreed but Mrs L thought the compensation was inadequate and requested an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I will explain why I think this is 
fair.  
Alternative accommodation
After the source of the water leak was fixed, Mrs L remained in her home whilst the damage 
was inspected, and arrangements made to carry out repairs. RSAs records show she was 
worried about using the electrical sockets because of dampness. It arranged for an 
electrician to attend to make sure the installation was safe, which it was confirmed to be. A 
dehumidifier was put in place and the property was considered liveable in the period prior 
to works commencing. 
Mrs L says that she had to live in damp conditions while waiting for alternative 
accommodation to be agreed. I have thought about this point. 
From the available information, the issue of alternative accommodation wasnt raised until 
later in November several weeks after the escape of water. At this time Mrs L asked if 
alternative accommodation would be needed as she understood shed be without a kitchen 
for a while. I can understand this situation was distressing and disruptive for Mrs L. But 
alternative accommodation wasnt identified as needed, by either party, until the repair works 
began. 
Referring to the telephone records, there are several calls between Mrs L and RSA where 
alternative accommodation is discussed. These discussions start in late November 2020 and 
continue into January 2021. I note she initially expressed concern that the accommodation 
should be close by, and on a bus route as she doesnt drive.
Mrs L was happy with the accommodation first arranged for the end of December 2020. 
However, when it was understood the works would take longer, RSA was unable to extend 
the booking at the apartment. Alternatives were offered, but these were considered 
unsuitable by Mrs L for various reasons. A hotel was then booked for her to stay at.  
Mrs L has explained why the hotel accommodation was problematic. She had no cooking 
facilities and no means to wash clothes. In addition, the hotel offered no food from Friday to 
Sunday. I understand she regularly visited her sister during this time, because of the lack of 
facilities at the hotel.
Miss L says she managed to find accommodation online that she thought was suitable. RSA 
didnt agree to these suggestions. I can understand why she found this frustrating. But I also accept RSA has its processes to follow when making these arrangements. 
Although RSA wasnt able to agree to the accommodation Mrs L had found online, it did offer 
several different options during the period Mrs L needed alternative accommodation. And it 
did ensure she was accommodated until she returned home at the beginning of February. 
Whilst I can sympathise with her position, I dont think RSA behaved unfairly in this respect.  
The policy terms say: 
If your home is uninhabitable as a result of damage to your buildings caused by an event 
covered under your policy well pay: the additional cost of similar short-term 
accommodation for your family, including accommodation for any pets living with you.   
Arguably the hotel accommodation wasnt similar in that facilities werent available to 
launder clothes or prepare meals. RSA did, however, provide a disruption payment for the 
period Mrs L was in hotel accommodation. This was calculated at £10 per day totalling £380. 
I think this payment was appropriate given the accommodation lacked these facilities, which 
meant Mrs L had to rely on visiting her sister. 
I note Mrs L says the standard of service and communication from RSA wasnt good in 
relation to the alternative accommodation. She says it was the apartment owner that first told 
her this accommodation wasnt available beyond the first week. She says she then had to 
make RSA aware, so she had somewhere to stay. Mrs L explains that not knowing if she 
had accommodation, or where this was, caused her distress. 
RSA says it contacted its agent to extend the arrangement at the apartment. Its not clear if 
this was as a result of Mrs Ls contact or it was doing this anyway. However, I do think Mrs L 
should have been kept better informed on the situation with her accommodation. Having 
considered the available information, I think RSAs communication fell short of what was 
needed here. 
I agree with our investigator that RSA should compensate Mrs L for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. I will confirm this below. 
Kickboards didnt match
RSA explains the original scope of works identified kickboards and end units needed 
replacing. It says the plan was to match these with the existing kitchen. Its records from 
December 2020 say, there is a small chance they can get a match and contractors are 
going to try Howdens. A note in February 2021 says J&B advise they did say the plinths 
wouldnt match from the start.  
Mrs L felt it was clear early on that the replacement kickboards wouldnt match, and she had 
let RSA know her concerns. 
I have thought about whether RSA acted fairly in relation to this point. 
The policy terms allow RSA the opportunity to either repair or replace damaged items. I note 
Mrs L has Matching Items Cover, which says, if a kitchen cupboard is damaged and we 
cant find an exact replacement, well pay to replace all the kitchen units. 
From what I have read, there was still a chance that a match could be found to allow for an 
effective repair. When it was found not to be the case  RSA agreed to replace Mrs Ls 
kitchen in full. I think it was reasonable for RSA to attempt the repair initially, this would 
involve a lot less work and time to complete the repair. But as the kickboards were found not to match, the policy terms require the kitchen to be replaced, which is ultimately what 
happened.    
Washing Machine/Leaking sink
Mrs L says her old washing machine was removed but the pipework was not capped off. 
This resulted in a leak when the sink was used.
In RSAs response to Mrs Ls complaint its not clear on what date or by which contractor the 
washing machine was disconnected. However, I think its clear that a contractor acting on its 
behalf disconnected the machine. When Mrs L subsequently used the sink, water flooded 
out from underneath because of the way the drain had been left. 
It was agreed that a plumber could attend to resolve the problem, which Mrs L arranged. 
I think this mishap was avoidable and has added to the overall distress and inconvenience 
felt by Mrs L. I will consider this in the compensation payment below.  
Communication/Service
Mrs L says that throughout her claim she felt she didnt know what was going on and had to 
push RSA for information to be provided.
In its complaint submission RSA says Mrs L was particularly concerned that she was told 
latex flooring would be in place by the time she returned from holiday. This didnt happen 
until later in January 2021. That she was given assurances her old washing machine would 
be removed, when it wasnt. And that her neighbour informed her that her sofa was left 
outside. To do this it meant the external door had to be removed, which RSA said it wouldnt 
do. 
I have read through all the available records in detail when considering Mrs Ls concerns. 
The records show regular telephone contact from Mrs L to RSA. In a number of these calls 
she is complaining of a lack of communication. This covers various points relating to the 
arrangements for repairs to take place. As well as the points highlighted above, Mrs L 
complained that the flooring contractor didnt wear protective equipment, with respect to the 
pandemic. She recalls him saying that, covid was a hoax.     
With respect to her sofa being left outside, I can understand why this was a concern for Mrs 
L. She understood the door wasnt going to be removed, and there was potential for damage 
to be caused to the sofa. RSAs response is that it was necessary to move the sofa so 
flooring could be laid. It says it was wrapped in plastic whilst it was outside.  
Having considered all this, I think there is evidence RSA didnt treat Mrs L fairly. She should 
have been kept informed of what was happening and when there were valid reasons for 
plans to change. I accept some inconvenience is unavoidable whilst the claim was handled, 
and repairs carried out. But I think this was made worse by the lack of proactive updates, 
and poor communication from RSA. 
The available information shows Mrs L instigated a lot of the contact to RSA, this left her 
feeling unsupported. I can understand that this was a distressing time for her. I think its fair 
to say that RSAs handling of the claim added to the distress and frustration. 
In summary, although there were some shortfalls in the service provided, I think the available 
information shows repairs were carried out effectively. When the mis-match was confirmed with the kickboards, work progressed swiftly to replace the kitchen in full. Overall, I dont 
think the time RSA has shown it took to reinstate the damaged areas was unreasonable.      
That said, I dont think RSA treated Mrs L fairly in relation to communication concerning 
alternative accommodation, distress caused by the unconnected sink drain, and the overall 
standard of communication. To acknowledge this, RSA should pay Mrs L compensation of 
£300. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
should:
pay Mrs L £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman