DRN-4225474
The complaint
Mr W complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W took out two fixed sum loan agreements with AvantCredit. The first was in March 2016 
and the second was in February 2018.
 
Mr W says he couldnt afford the credit. He says he struggled to pay it and so took a loan 
from another company to pay it off and then took the second loan from AvantCredit in 2018 
to pay off the earlier reconsolidation loan. Mr W hasnt said what he thinks AvantCredit did 
wrong, but it is suggested that Mr W thinks it didnt check he could afford the borrowing 
before it provided it to him. 
AvantCredit says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr W and it didnt see 
anything which might make it think he couldnt afford the loans. 
Our investigator considered that Mr Ws complaint should be partially upheld. They thought 
that AvantCredit had completed necessary and proportionate checks in relation to the first 
loan but that in the case of the second loan it had failed to act fairly on the outcome of those 
checks. 
Mr W accepted the investigators view. AvantCredit disagreed with the view. It said that it 
agreed with the investigators view about the first loan, but not the second one. 
As AvantCredit did not agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision.
As both parties agreed with our investigators finding in relation to the first loan I have not 
reconsidered that element of the view. Instead, I focus only on the second loan, ending 
x5238.
AvantCredit needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, how much borrowing Mr W had elsewhere and Mr Ws income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
AvantCredit said that it conducted checks to ensure that the credit would be affordable for Mr 
W when he took out the loan. It has provided some evidence of what it saw about Mr Ws 
finances at the time. This shows that Mr W was very indebted. He had settled his first loan 
with AvantCredit two months earlier and had returned to borrow a further amount. His 
repayments to existing unsecured loans, his mortgage, and his proposed new loan 
repayments would have committed more than 60% of his net income each month. He also 
had unsecured loans in the form of revolving credit of over £8,800. Monthly sustainable 
repayments on this, which would allow Mr W to repay the credit in a reasonable time, would 
have been about £440 a month  a further 25% of his net income. I think that this level of 
indebtedness was entirely unsustainable. Mr W had very little money to pay for other 
essential outgoings, such as utilities, food and council tax. While I do not know for sure what 
those expenses amounted to I think its likely Mr W had no disposable income left each 
month. 
AvantCredit has highlighted that two of the loans on the list it provided of existing credit were 
not current. I have not included these in my calculations, so it does not make a difference to 
my conclusion. Further, AvantCredit has sought to suggest that Mr W could have used his 
loan to clear three of his credit accounts, reducing his credit card balances by 13%, making 
the loan more affordable. 
While Mr W indicated that the loan was taken for debt consolidation, AvantCredit didnt 
attempt to find out which debts he was proposing to consolidate. And it didnt make the 
consolidation of any debts a condition of the lending. As such, AvantCredit didnt have any 
assurance that Mr W wouldnt just be adding to his overall debt.
On the basis of the information available to me, I am satisfied that AvantCredit acted unfairly 
on the outcome of its checks. I do not think that AvantCredit ought to have loaned Mr W the 
money. 
Putting things right
ntCredit should not have provided the second loan to Mr W. To settle this complaint 
AvantCredit should do the following:
Add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of having been given 
this loan.
Subtract the repayments Mr W has made from this amount.
If this results in Mr W having paid more than he received, any overpayments must be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the overpayments 
were made to the date of settlement.
If any capital balance remains outstanding, AvantCredit should arrange an affordable 
and suitable payment plan with Mr W. If no such arrangement can be agreed, Mr W 
can return to this service to make a further complaint.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges of the loan, but also to remove any negative information 
recorded on his credit file regarding the loan once the outstanding balance has been 
cleared.*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I have decided that AvantCredit acted unfairly when it gave Mr W the second loan. To put 
things right I direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to pay compensation as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman