DRN-3087299
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the advice he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) in 2001 
to invest into an Asset Management Service (AMS) portfolio. Mr G says he was advised to 
invest too much of his capital and with too much risk.
Mr G is represented by a third party, but for ease of reference Ill refer to Mr G in my final 
decision. 
What happened
As a result of a compensation payment Mr G received a considerable sum of money. It was 
agreed in May 2001 that Mr G would meet with Lloyds  along with his brother  because of 
Mr Gs need for support. In advance of the meeting Mr Gs brother was sent a copy of the 
financial report which was to be discussed at the meeting held in June 2001. 
At the time Mr Gs assets and circumstances were recorded in the financial report as being:
£317,000 held on deposit,
£7,000 in a stocks and shares ISA with another provider,
The expectation of an additional £200,000 to £250,000 to be available in the next 12 
months.
Mr G wasnt able to work and Lloyds told us he wanted an income of £12,500.
Lloyds has told us it was only possible for Mr G to achieve an annual income of £10,500 with 
the amount of capital he had. As a result of the meeting an AMS account valued at £317,000 
was to be opened with Lloyds with the following investment portfolio:
£115,000 to be invested into gilts,
£20,000 to be invested in a with profits bond,
£110,000 to be invested into a mixture of equities,
£72,000 to be retained in cash. 
In March 2002 Mr G received an additional £50,000 and was expecting another £400,000. 
He wanted to keep £67,000 in cash for a potential business opportunity with a member of his 
family. He required more income with safety so an additional £50,000 was invested in gilts 
which increased his income by a further £3,000 per year.
In June 2002 Mr G wanted to make a payment of £15,000 to a family member. He had 
received a further £50,000 which was to be kept in cash. As a result, his portfolio was 
invested:
£115,000 held in cash, 
£200,000 invested in gilts, 
£84,000 invested in a with profit bond and equities. 
A total investment of £399,000.
In 2003 Mr G wanted £200,000 for a deposit on some properties he was to buy for rental 
purposes. After such a withdrawal the AMS portfolio couldnt be sustained and was closed. 
Mr G complained to Lloyds. He said he wasnt able to work, couldnt replace any lost capital 
and needed support from carers. Mr G suffered from memory loss and was unable to recall 
his brother being in attendance at the meeting. Mr G said he had been advised to invest too 
much of his capital and with too much investment risk. He didnt have any prior investment 
knowledge or experience. 
Lloyds responded to Mr Gs complaint in November 2020. It said:
It was aware that Mr G had only limited experience and dealings with large sums of 
money and making the type of investment that he did.
Mr G had had a significant change in his circumstances in the five years prior to his 
investment. He needed immediate income, it was prudent for him to have sought 
advice and his investment in 2001 was appropriate. Additional income had been 
needed in March 2002 and the further investment into gilts met that requirement.
Mr Gs decision to invest into property in 2003 wasnt known at the outset of his 
relationship with Lloyds when he had been recommended medium to long term 
investments.
He was 26 years of age in 2001, needed income over the longer term and the AMS 
portfolio recommendation was appropriate.
Mr G wasnt happy with the outcome to his complaint so brought it to this service. Our 
adjudicator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. They thought that 
Lloyds recommendation wasnt unsuitable.
Mr G disagreed. He had been a vulnerable client and he said the advice was unsuitable for 
him.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds doesnt have all of the documents from the point of sale in 2001. However, I dont find 
this surprising given how long ago this recommendation was made and the subsequent 
closure of the portfolio in 2003. 
But Lloyds has been able to give us a copy of the Financial Report from June 2001. Its 
recorded at the top of that Report that it was based on the information gathered between   
Mr G, his brother and the adviser.
It said the portfolio would be constructed taking into account Mr Gs overall aims, the degree 
of security he required, the length of time of investment, his income and capital requirements 
and his need for cash reserves. At that time Mr Gs assets totalled £317,000 in cash/deposit 
type products as well as £7,000 within another product providers ISA which was recorded 
as being a medium risk investment. In the Report, its recorded Mr Gs personal objectives were (when further funds were 
received) to invest a total of £400,000 with a balance between capital growth and income 
and also wanted to maintain a cash reserve of £200,000. 
The recommended action included an exposure to the UK equity stock market in blue chip 
shareholdings to provide for the potential of capital growth. And that increase in risk was to 
be balanced with gilts which would provide capital security and provide the majority of the 
income needed. Tax efficient products were to be considered.
The low risk investments recommended included gilts, a Tessa, £51,600 cash in a current 
account and an IGSA all totalling £187,100. The medium risk investments included an 
equity-based portfolio, a with profits bond and the ISA. They totalled £137,500. Mr Gs main 
residence and goods were valued at £180,000. No high-risk investments were included. The 
total portfolio was valued at £504,600, or £324,600 excluding Mr Gs property. 
The outcome of the recommendation was that 58% of Mr Gs investible funds at the time 
were to be invested into lower risk investments and 42% in medium risk investments which 
were to provide the potential for capital growth over the medium to longer term. 
After the changes made in 2002, and compared to the 2001 portfolio, the portfolio was now 
invested:
£115,000 held in cash (plus £43,000),
£200,000 invested in gilts (plus £85,000),
£84,000 invested in a with profit bond and equities (minus £46,000),
Of the amended portfolio 79% of Mr Gs invested assets were in lower risk investments and 
the balance in equities and with profits bond. 
Mr Gs investment objectives and attitude to risk
In the absence paperwork from 2001 evidencing how Mr Gs attitude to risk Lloyds 
concluded he was willing to take and what his investment objectives were, I have to consider 
whether the conclusion it did reach was reasonable.  Ive also borne in mind Mr G was new 
to investing and would be reliant upon the advice given to him. 
While I cant know for sure what was discussed before and at the July 2001 meeting and 
how Mr Gs attitude to risk and investment objectives were ascertained and identified, Ive 
reviewed the information I do have and taken into account what was known about Mr Gs 
circumstances at the time.
Mr G had been awarded a large sum of money. Those funds were to help sustain Mr G, who 
was unlikely to be able to work, and who needed support. Mr G had very limited investment 
experience  particularly with this amount of funds  and Lloyds had to take this into account
Ive also carefully considered Mr Gs capacity for loss and inability to replace any losses 
bearing in mind the funds were to sustain him for the long term. Mr G was aged 26 years at 
the time and unexpected to be able to work. 
Over this kind of timescale, I dont think the conclusions reached by Lloyds were unsuitable. 
Mr G had a long term need for his money and had an immediate need for income but too 
cautious an approach may have increased the risks of his capital not meeting his growth 
objectives or eroding his moneys value against inflation. Some capital growth would have been needed to sustain that level of income over the longer-term and this would mean 
accepting a certain level of risk. A low/medium attitude to risk meant Mr G could have lower 
risk investments to produce his income but also achieve the capital growth hed need over 
the longer term by adding in some medium risk investments. I dont think this was an 
unreasonable outcome. 
Ive also taken into account that at the time of the recommendation it wasnt known that Mr G 
would be removing half of the funds to invest into property  a different asset class and with 
a different risk rating. 
So, I dont think its unreasonable to assume the investment objectives and subsequent 
recommendations would have been different if that had been known, and in particular the 
medium to longer term investment objective which would be needed for equity growth. 
Were the investment recommendations suitable?
As identified by Lloyds, Mr G was inexperienced in dealing with these large sums of money 
and had little investment experience and knowledge. Its clear these funds were very 
important to Mr G.
The Financial Report which was discussed with Mr G and his brother in June 2001 explained 
Lloyds rationale for making the various investment recommendations that it did. It also 
explained the types of risks involved including fluctuations in value, the suggested length of 
time for investment and the various returns and growth the different investments would 
potentially provide. 
So, I think the reasons for the suggested portfolio and investments were more likely 
discussed and agreed along with the risks involved being explained to Mr G. 
I dont find the recommendation to invest a proportion of the portfolio into blue chip equities 
over the medium to longer term unsuitable even though there was potential in the short term 
for stock market volatility and fluctuations in value. And it wasnt known Mr G would be 
taking half of his capital out of the portfolio.
The portfolio that resulted in 2002  when more of the expected cash had been received  
had a significant exposure to lower risk investments and cash, and just over 20% exposure 
to medium risk equities to provide the capital growth. I dont think those investments 
exposed Mr G to too much risk.
In conclusion, I dont find that the investment recommendations made were unsuitable for  
Mr Gs needs and were in line with his investment objectives and attitude to risk that that I 
think were reasonably identified at the outset in 2001. 
The rationale to invest for a mixture of income and capital growth for the medium to longer 
term wasnt unreasonable bearing in mind Mr Gs circumstances at the time. And the 
underlying investments reflected his investment objectives and attitude to risk in order to 
meet those objectives. 
Having considered the overall evidence and in the individual circumstances of this complaint 
I have not seen sufficient persuasive evidence that the AMS portfolio was unsuitable for     
Mr G. I have not seen any evidence he wasnt prepared to take some risk with the money in 
order to achieve his investment objectives. And the amount invested left sufficient cash 
available to him if he needed it.I appreciate that Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope I have been able to 
explain how I have reached it and why.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman