DRN-2745711
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) have
handled claims he made on his buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Ocaso includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and
have taken place over a number of years as the initial claim dates back to 2018.
Rather than repeat in detail what is already known to both parties and not generally in
dispute, in my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I
have.
In summary, in January 2018 Mr A made a claim on his policy for an escape of water from
an adjacent property. Mr A was moved to alternative accommodation, but in June 2018,
shortly after hed moved back in, a pipe burst. Mr A made another claim and was again
moved into alternative accommodation whilst the repairs were being carried out. Mr A and
his family eventually moved back into the insured property in January 2020 when Ocaso
have recorded that all works are completed to the Insureds satisfaction. Call notes indicate
that in February 2020 there were still some of the works unfinished or incomplete.
Ocaso had awarded Mr A £100 prior to our services involvement. Mr A remained unhappy
and referred his complaint to our service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He
suggested that as Ocaso had already settled the claim, they should pay Mr A £1,600 for any
trouble and upset caused by how theyd handled things overall. Ocaso accepted the
investigators recommendation. Initially Mr A accepted this recommendation, but then
withdrew his acceptance. Mr A was seeking £3,500 compensation. 
I issued my intended findings in a provisional decision dated 24 June 2021. Both parties 
were given two weeks (until 8 July) to provide any additional comments or responses. Ocaso 
accepted the decision. 
Mr A responded on 5 July to say he disagreed and was drafting a response. He further 
responded on 7 July asking for a two-day deadline extension. I agreed to this and instead, 
for fairness, offered a further seven-day extension. 
This meant Mr A needed to respond before 15 July. Mr A emailed on 16 July asking for a 
further extension which Im not granting as I feel both parties have had sufficient time to 
respond already.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no material new evidence or arguments have been presented since my provisional 
decision was issued, I see no reason to depart from my intended findings. For ease, Ive 
included a copy of my provisional decision below as it forms the basis of my overall findings.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
As the outstanding claims have been settled, my decision will focus on the issue of how
much compensation is appropriate here.
Although Ocaso were agreeable to our investigators findings on the delays, the figure of
£1,600 and have already paid it - Mr A wasnt. He feels that £3,500 would be more
appropriate. I have to tell both parties that I currently intend to increase the compensation
award to £2,100 in total for any trouble and upset caused by how Ocaso have handled
Mr As claims.
As Ocaso accepted our investigators findings and the background to this complaint has
taken place over a long period of time, Ill focus on the key reasons and provide some
examples - rather than every reason why I currently intend to direct Ocaso to increase the
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Delays to repair works
Ocaso are responsible for any delays caused by suppliers or contractors acting on their
behalf. They arent responsible for any supplier or agent Mr A appointed himself. For
example, in July 2019 when works were stopped as Mr A was unhappy with the work
completed by Ocasos approved contractors, Mr A appointed contractors to carry out work
between October 2019 and January 2020. This is important in this case as some of the
delays were as a result of third-party suppliers or agents not appointed by Ocaso.
Ocaso arent responsible for any delays caused by Mr A appointing his own contractors. Ive
kept this in mind. However, there are specific delays that Ocaso are responsible for as they
were caused by contractors appointed on Ocasos behalf. Many of these delays are not fully
explained, potentially avoidable and go beyond what would be reasonably acceptable.
Ill give examples of some, but not all of the delays below.
The drying out process not commencing until November 2018 - despite the issues having
been reported months earlier. A report from Ocaso dated 23 October 2018 sates:
Drying contractors have attended and provided a strip out request and this has been
forwarded to [redacted] to attend and complete these works. Once the strip out has
been completed we will arrange for the drying programme to commence following
which reinstatement work can commence.
But this was around six months after the claim had first been made. As a result,
reinstatement works couldnt commence until around February 2019. As another example, a
sub-contracted builder used gloss paint to paint some windows and doors shut causingdelays and extra remedial work.
Another example was around July 2019. Work paused as Ocasos contractors felt the
kitchen doors could be reused and only the kitchen units were damaged. But the correct
sized units were no longer made by the manufacturer and both parties agreed to provide
their own quotations and discuss further. In my opinion, given the delays that had already
occurred prior to this, it wouldnt have been unreasonable to save time and agree to cover
the cost of the new units. In August 2019 a payment was then agreed.
Ive also noted from Ocasos records it was recorded in February 2020 that Mr A raised
concerns that the works hasnt been completed. For example; plaster issues, unfinished
electrical works, extractor fan and splash back issues and end panels and one unit not
installed. The claim handling notes from February 2020 support this:
.site visit report received. Original attendance was in December, report received
today as previously overlooked.has highlighted a number of areas that will require
adding to the schedule as a variation. On review of the PHs recent call this is inline
with what has been highlighted.
Therefore, this was a further three-month delay caused by Ocaso overlooking the December
report that delayed the claim being finalised.
Overall, I find that there were delays that are Ocasos responsibility that I estimate added
around 12 months to the repairs and go far beyond what is reasonably acceptable. I can
understand why Mr A resorted to appointing his own contractors towards the end of the
claim to complete the works - given all that had gone before.
Mr A has said that he was initially told works would take around five months in total. I also
note it important that initially Ocaso instructed their agent to find suitable alternative
accommodation for 6 months. This, in my opinion, supports that the works took far longer
than was reasonably expected.
Delayed payments
There are numerous instances where payment of a claim was approved by Ocasos loss
adjusters but not paid for months. For example on 3 December 2019 Mr A requested a
contribution towards food costs, this was approved on 21 January 2020 but not actually paid
until 1 April 2020.
As another example, in August 2019 there was a gap of six weeks between the loss adjuster
approving payment for council tax owed and loss of housing benefit and it being paid. Again,
in January 2020 the loss adjuster approved payment for alternative accommodation but this
wasnt paid until April 2020.
In an email to Ocaso and their agents dated 26 June 2019 Mr A said:
this insurance claim has been ongoing for a long time now. The process you
follow has placed me into financial hardship. This is due to the fact I am having to
pay out bills on credit cards.why do I always have to pay out for money I dont have
and then wait months to reclaim my money back?.....if you can contact council tax
immediately on my behalf and make payment explaining the situation that would be
one step forward.
Its important to point out that the process Mr A followed (pay and then reclaim) is within the
terms of his insurance policy and is relatively normal across the insurance sector when it
comes to these types of claims. Generally speaking wed expect insurers to handle anyclaim promptly  including processing agreed payments and this tends to happen in weeks
rather than the months it took in some instances in this claim.
I find that Ocaso didnt process many of the claim payments here within a reasonable
timeframe. In this particular case - given Mr As specific circumstances, Im not satisfied that
Ocaso fairly took into consideration the impact of the payment delays on Mr A and his family
 particularly as there were a number of payments across a long period of time and hed
made them aware of the impact the whole claim process was having on him.
Im satisfied that, overall, these payment delays by Ocaso contributed towards avoidable
trouble and upset for Mr A and his family .
Delayed decision making
In June 2019 Mr A contacted Ocaso to let them know his existing accommodation would end
at the end of August 2019. Ive seen evidence that Ocaso were made aware by builders in
July 2019 that the required remedial works wouldnt be completed for a further 4 months. But
Ocaso would only approve accommodation for 3 months, rather than the certainty of 6
months in the same building that Mr A wanted  despite the expected completion of works.
I find that eventually Ocaso did agree to a 6-month extension. But by the time Ocaso made
that delayed decision, suitable options were limited and Mr A and his wife were
accommodated in a hotel for 11 weeks with 2 young children. Given Mr As circumstances
and young children, I think that staying in a hotel for a prolonged period rather than Mr As
proposed option of rented accommodation in the same building hed been staying in was
unsuitable. I also find this uncertainty and delay will have had a negative impact on Mr A.
These delays caused by Ocaso ultimately lead to a situation where the landlord was
threatening to evict Mr A and his family - causing more trouble, upset and uncertainty for
Mr A with the threat of being made homeless loomed over him.
Ive noted from an Ocaso report dated November 2019:
The landlord did not wish to extend the tenancy with the Insured and therefore we
had no option but to place the insured in hotel accommodation.
Whilst I cant hold Ocaso responsible for the decision made by Mr A when choosing not to
vacate the property as required, I do find that but for their delays in sourcing alternative
accommodation, it seems reasonable to assume this situation couldve been avoided.
I say this because although it may well have been the case that Ocaso had no other (or very
limited) options around the time they finally made their delayed decision to accommodate
Mr A and his family in hotel accommodation, I find it more likely than not this was because of
the delays in their decision making limited the options available to them at that time (October
2019). Had they acted sooner its possible there wouldve been other, more suitable options
available.
Ocaso said theyd made Mr A aware that he was responsible for paying the council tax at the
insured property. Ive seen a copy of the court summons (Ocaso have previously been
provided with a copy too) and its not for the insured address - but for the alternative
accommodation. Although Ocaso may have made Mr A aware that hed need to pay any bills
due and then be reimbursed, I still find that their overall delays when handling this claim will
have negatively impacted Mr A as well as causing further trouble and upset.
The impact on Mr As healthOcasos system notes show that Mr A made them aware very early on in the claims process
about his health circumstances. Mr A has provided medical evidence to support what hes
said about the overall impact this whole experience has had on his health. For example,
shortly after the claim was made, Ocaso arranged for Mr A and his family to stay in a local
hotel. But a plumber was arranged to reconnect the water supply and Mr A was living at the
insured address temporally. Ocaso shouldve been reasonably aware that sending Mr A
back to a still damp property initially was not going to be any good for his health conditions. I
find that this was neither fair nor reasonable.
Summary
I find that Ocasos handling of this entire claim has caused Mr A avoidable trouble and upset.
Ive outlined some of, but not all, examples above of why the £1,600 compensation already
paid doesnt go far enough to recognise the impact on Mr A.
Although Mr A feels £3,500 is a fair settlement, I dont agree. Ive carefully considered
everything Mr A had told us about the impact this whole claim experience has had on his
familys lives and I intend to direct Ocaso to increase their offer of compensation from £1,600
to £2,100.
As it seems £1,600 has already been paid, Ocaso should pay Mr A an additional £500. I feel
that this overall figure is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the impact of Ocasos actions
on Mr A.
For completeness and to help both parties draw this claim to a close, it should be noted by
Ocaso that my intended direction of £2,100 in total compensation for any trouble and upset
caused to Mr A, as a result of the impact of their actions, is separate to and not conditional
on Mr As cooperation in relation to the action Ocaso have taken in relation to the third party
who they say may be liable for the water leak as a result of their workmanship.
However, Id also politely remind Mr A, that under the terms of this policy its stated:
We have the right, at our expense and in your name to:
 take over the defence or settlement of any claim
 start legal action in your name to get compensation from anyone else; or
 start legal action in your name to get back from anyone else any payments that
have already been made.
You must give us, and pay for, all the information we reasonably ask for about any
claim. You must also help us to take legal action against anyone or help us defend
any legal action if we ask you to.
To be clear, Im not directing Mr A to cooperate. Im simply stating that the policy terms
require his reasonable cooperation in this matter.
Putting things right
I direct Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to increase their offer of 
compensation for any trouble and upset caused by how theyve handled the claims from 
£1,600 to £2,100.
As it seems £1,600 has already been paid, Ocaso should now pay Mr A an additional £500. I feel that this overall figure is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the impact of Ocasos 
actions on Mr A.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros should now follow 
my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman