DRN-3588796
The complaint
Ms C complains through her representative, (PR), that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt 
fairly or reasonably deal with her claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product in 2014. The purchase 
was in Ms C and Ms Ts name but, as it was funded in part by a payment made by Ms C 
using her Lloyds credit card, she is the eligible complainant. For simplicity, in this decision I 
will refer to her as the sole purchaser.
What happened
In 2014 Ms C took what she says was a cheap holiday. During that holiday she was taken to 
another resort where she was pressurised to purchase a holiday product. She says she was 
told that it could be sold back to the Seller after a year.  The process took some three hours 
and only when she was reassured that it could be sold back did she agree to make the 
purchase. Ms C said that she wasnt given the chance to read the documents she initialled 
and signed. She paid a deposit by credit card and signed a promissory note for the balance. 
Ms C said she wasnt told about the maintenance fees until after the contract had been 
signed. After a year she tried to sell it back but was unable to and her emails and calls went 
unanswered.
In March 2020 PR submitted a letter of claim to Lloyds under s. 75 CCA. It said the product 
was misrepresented and was worthless. It also claimed there had been a breach of contract 
by the Seller since Ms C was unable to sell it back.  The claim was rejected as was the 
subsequent complaint. Lloyds said PR and Ms C had not submitted evidence in support of 
the claim to support Ms Cs testimony.
PR brought a complaint to this service. It said that Lloyds had not properly assessed Ms Cs 
ability to afford the loan. It claimed Lloyds had paid commission to the Seller without 
declaring it to Ms C. Finally it claimed the Seller had applied pressure to Ms C.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He noted Ms Cs testimony, but without any supporting evidence he didnt think 
Lloyds had been wrong to refuse the claim. Although PR had not raised the issue of an 
unfair relationship under s.140a CCA with Lloyds he didnt believe there were any grounds to 
support this claim. 
PR didnt agree and said it had no information as to what contractual terms had been 
reviewed and our investigators view was vague and opaque. It said no weight had been 
given to Ms Cs testimony and it was unacceptable to presume she was lying. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. It would appear that two of the three points of complaint brought 
by PR to this service have no relevance. Lloyds did not grant a loan to Ms C. She used her 
credit card account to make a payment to the Seller and so the issue of affordability was not 
something Lloyds had reason to consider in respect of this transaction. Nor does the 
allegation that payment of commission by Lloyds have any relevance. 
I have noted PRs response in which it says it does not know what was considered by our 
investigator. I have considered all the material provided by it and Lloyds, but would point out 
that no contract or agreement has been supplied. The claim is based on the assertions 
made by Ms C.
Strictly, the only complaint for me to consider is that of the alleged unfair relationship, but 
this was not something which PR raised with Lloyds. However, despite the inconsistencies 
between PRs claim and the complaint I consider it best if I address the claim made under 
s.75 and also the point raised with this service concerning s.140A. 
S.75 CCA
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Ms C) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (Lloyds) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
Its important to note that, as Lloyds was the lender rather than the supplier, under the Act a 
claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
Misrepresentation
On Ms Cs behalf PR alleges that the holiday product was mispresented to her as she had 
been told she could sell it back after a year. Regrettably PR has submitted little in the way of 
documentary evidence of what was purchased. In its submission to this service it provided a 
copy of a promissory note, an email from the finance company regarding the promissory 
note and a copy of a sales certificate. In its response to the claim Lloyds said that it had 
insufficient evidence to support the claim and I gather it too did not have the full paperwork.
Not having been present at the sale its not possible for me to say exactly what was said, and in what circumstances. I have noted Ms Cs testimony but I have no supporting evidence 
and no records have been supplied of her attempt(s) to sell the product or the Sellers 
refusal to buy it back. 
Lloyds is being asked to make a significant payment to Ms C and I consider it reasonable 
that it seeks supporting evidence. Other than Ms Cs testimony it has no grounds on which it 
can uphold the claim. 
In any event I can imagine that the sales representatives would have put the best gloss on 
the product and emphasised the benefits membership would offer, but that does not mean 
that this amounted to misrepresentation.
Overall it is difficult for me to conclude that any misrepresentations were made.
Breach of Contract
As our investigator has explained under s.75 of the CCA, we can only consider whether the 
Seller failed to perform one or more of the contracts terms  thereby breaching the contract. 
I have not seen evidence that this occurred which makes it difficult for me to conclude there 
has been one or more breaches.
S.140A CCA
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Ms C and Lloyds 
were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Ms C could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against Lloyds anyway.
Ms Cs alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to her personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Lloyds assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
I appreciate Ms C is dissatisfied with her purchase and she has my sympathies for this, but, 
in summary I cannot see why any of her claims were likely to have succeeded. So overall I 
think that Lloyds acted reasonably in declining the claim under s.75 and would have been 
entitled to do so for a claim under s. 140A CCA if one had been made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman