DRN-2815348
The complaint
Miss T complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Moneybarn No.1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss T, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss T acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Our investigator explained to Miss T that we couldnt consider all the issues she raised. 
That was because her complaint, about the problems the business covered in their May 
2019 final response, was made out of time and the rules we operate under prevented this 
service considering it. I understand Miss T accepted the investigators view on that matter so 
Im only considering any new issues she raised to Moneybarn and that they responded to in 
their final response issued in October 2019.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss T. The car here had 
already completed over 90,000 miles and was about seven years old when supplied. So, I 
think a reasonable person would expect it to have quite a bit of wear and tear.
As Miss T reported further issues to Moneybarn in August 2019 and within the first six 
months of ownership. The relevant legislation explains we should assume the issues were 
present at the point of supply and that the onus is therefore on the business to demonstrate 
that wasnt the case.
The independent inspector noted that the car had passed an MOT when supplied and, whilst 
he was able to confirm the faults Miss T reported, he was of the opinion the car was 
probably fit for purpose when supplied.
I dont think a reasonable person would think it unusual for a car of this age and 
considerable mileage to develop faults with the sort of issues Miss T reported i.e. window 
faults, heater controls, I think theyd think they were examples of normal wear and tear on a 
vehicle of this age and mileage. So, I agree with the independent inspectors view that none 
of the problems identified during that inspection could fairly be considered not to have been 
related to fair wear and tear and that their presence now doesnt suggest the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Miss T has also provided a health check report completed in September 2019 that suggests 
there are other problems with the car. It suggests there is wear to both lower ball joints on 
the front suspension and that a steering coil spring is failing. I think these are issues that, if 
unsatisfactory at the point the car was supplied, would have been picked up in the MOT 
completed around that time. And, as they werent, Im persuaded they are examples of 
normal wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage.
I also understand that Miss T has reported shes had recent issues with the rear differential 
on the car. Thats not something Moneybarn have been asked to consider, but in the 
absence of evidence to the contrary, given the time the car has been in Miss Ts possession 
it would seem most likely that issue has developed since Miss T took receipt of the vehicle. I 
appreciate Miss Ts frustration with the faults that have occurred but Im afraid I dont think 
Ive seen evidence that suggests Moneybarn should be responsible for them.
So, I dont this car was of unsatisfactory quality and Im not asking Moneybarn to take any 
further action.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman