DRN-4028076
The complaint
 The trustees of a trust, which Ill refer to as T, complain about delays by Lloyds Bank Plc 
(Lloyds) agreeing to their request to make changes to the wording of their standard legal 
charge so that T could complete a loan that the charge was intended to secure.  
What happened
 The background to the case is well known to the parties and, therefore, I wont repeat it in 
detail. 
Briefly:
In January 2021, Lloyds agreed to grant a £90,000 loan (the Loan) to T to help fund 
repair work to a property that it owned. The trustees have told us that at that time 
theyd been given a quote by a builder of £81,500 plus VAT to complete the work.
Lloyds intended granting the Loan on their standard terms and conditions. These 
were set out in the banks legal charge which the trustees were required to execute in 
order to complete the Loan.
But the trustees wanted the legal charge to be made more bespoke, the purpose of 
which the trustees say was so that it would better reflect Ts structure as well limit 
certain aspects of the trustees personal liabilities. To achieve this, amendments 
were necessary to various clauses in the banks document without which the trustees 
didnt think they could proceed with the Loan. 
So, in June 2021, Ts solicitors raised the issue of the amendments with Lloyds.
Between August and October 2021, there were various discussions and exchanges 
of correspondence between the bank, the trustees as well as Ts lawyers about the 
amendments. The banks legal department was also involved in those discussions 
and provided advice to Ts relationship manager (RM) from time to time. 
At first Lloyds declined the trustees request. But in September 2021, Ts solicitors 
told the bank that it had made similar amendments in the past for customers and so 
had set a precedent. 
In October 2021, Lloyds changed their mind and agreed that the amendments could 
be made, subject to Ts solicitors providing the wordings that were acceptable to T 
and also evidence confirming that the changes that were being requested had indeed 
been agreed in the past and for whom.
In December 2021 Ts solicitors provided the wording and the evidence the bank had 
asked for. Lloyds accepted the amendments that were proposed. 
But trustees believed it took too long for the bank to do so and they said in the 
meantime the cost of the repair work had risen from £81,500 plus vat to £96,800. 
Furthermore, the trustees said that Lloyds request for evidence to show for whom 
theyd agreed the amendments historically was unfair. In particular, because the 
trustees were being asked to breach confidence by giving details of third parties for 
whom Lloyds had previously made the change. They felt Lloyds should have had 
access to that information from their own records without recourse to the trustees.  
Lloyds didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said ordinarily they would not 
create bespoke documents and in any event any wording that may have been agreed 
in previous loan applications might have fallen foul of current regulations. 
Lloyds said they sought advice from their legal and credit teams regarding the 
trustees request and ultimately, exercised their discretion by agreeing the changes 
the trustees solicitors proposed. 
Since the complaint remained unresolved the trustees referred it to this service to 
consider. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She acknowledged there were extensive 
discussions between Lloyds and the trustees regarding the changes the trustees wanted to 
make to the legal charge. But she said Lloyds were entitled to make business decisions 
regarding the wording in their agreements. And in relation to the trustees request, she didnt 
think the banks approach was unreasonable nor that it was responsible for the delays the 
trustees alleged. 
The trustees didnt agree with the investigators conclusion. On their behalf, one of the 
trustees, who Ill refer to as Mr E, asked that their case be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
In summary, the trustees acknowledge Lloyds were entitled to make decisions about the 
wording in their agreements. 
But according to Mr E in order for Lloyds to make the changes, the bank was asking the 
trustees for evidence in the form of account names, sort codes and account numbers of its 
own clients for whom previous changes to the legal charge had been made. He said Lloyds 
security department could easily have obtained that information rather than approach the 
matter as the bank did by insisting the trustees provide this information even though theyd 
be risking a breach of Data Protection legislation.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Lloyds decision regarding the amendments to the legal charge
Whilst I can understand the trustees wish to make changes to the banks standard 
document, in order for them to be more comfortable executing it, I note their acknowledgement that ultimately it was for Lloyds to determine whether they were willing to 
do so, and I agree. 
It seems to me unlikely that the trustees request would have been a routine one. So, I can 
understand why the RM referred it to the banks legal department to advise whether any 
change would be acceptable. As noted above, at first the bank was not in favour of any 
changes. And in the absence of any indication the bank had done so historically, which the 
trustees solicitors initial email to Lloyds in June 2021 failed to provide, I do not think the 
bank acted unreasonably when at first it declined to make changes.
In October 2021, after being told theyd made such changes in the past, Lloyds indicated 
they were open to reverse their initial decision subject to the trustees solicitors providing the 
wording the trustees wish to substitute for their standard clauses, as well as proof the 
changes had been done before. 
The trustees have argued that the bank could have searched its records to verify what it had 
done historically. Lloyds on the other hand have said they couldnt see how reasonably they 
would have been able to find relevant documents based solely on the trustees assertion of 
what had taken place historically. 
As I noted above, these amendments were intended to benefit T. In particular, as the 
trustees explained to better reflect Ts structure and to ensure certain limits to the liabilities, 
they as trustees were willing to assume. Against that background, I do not think the banks 
decision to place the onus on the trustees not only to come up with appropriate wording but 
also proof the bank had historically agreed similar changes and for whom was necessarily 
an unreasonable approach to take. And besides, which I come to later, the bank was merely 
responding to the trustees solicitors invitation to revert if further information was needed to 
help Lloyds make their decision. 
Were there delays by Lloyds in making their decision? 
The trustees believe there were delays, especially against the background that the bank had 
agreed to similar changes in the past, meaning the process should have been more 
straightforward and taken less time. So, Ive thought about this carefully. 
Lloyds did agree in principle to make the changes the trustees wanted in October 2021 and 
Ts solicitors were told this at the time. But the wording the trustees wanted and evidence 
theyd been agreed previously for other customers were not received until December 2021. 
Im satisfied the bank was not responsible for any delays in the months between October 
and December 2021. I say that especially having regard to Mr Es acknowledgement in early 
December 2021 that the solicitors had been awaiting instructions from the trustees during 
that time. 
Ive gone on therefore to consider whether the bank was responsible for the delays before 
October 2021 bearing in mind, the matter of the amendments was first raised with the bank 
in June 2021. 
I cant be sure when the banks legal department was asked for guidance regarding the 
trustees request for amendments. But I note from the banks records that in mid-August their 
lawyers had considered it. And they were concerned, among other things, with the proposed 
amendments limiting the personal liabilities of the trustees.   
On 10 September 2021, Ts solicitors wrote to Lloyds explaining why the existing liability 
clause in the legal charge was unacceptable to the trustees and they confirmed to the bank their instructions that in the past Lloyds had agreed to variations to that particular clause. 
The solicitors set out an extract from one of the most recently amended charge, relating to a 
loan facility and added:
Our client has advised they can provide further details directly in connection with the above, 
if required. In the interim, please reconsider the position and let us have an update.
On the same day - 10 September 2021 the RM returned to the legal department with the 
information hed received from Ts solicitors and requested advice on a possible legal 
wording with which he could go back to the solicitors. 
The banks records show that its legal department reverted shortly afterwards  on 14 
September 2021 and confirmed that in view of what Ts solicitors had said, they no longer 
had concerns, albeit it was a matter for the banks Credit department to give final approval - 
which the RM then consulted. 
Following that discussion, the RM wrote to Ts solicitors to let them know that the wording on 
the legal charge could be amended. And, that: 
The next steps however are for you to send over an exact mark-up of how the legal charge 
should be amended, together with previous legal charges where the same amendments 
have been made, then from a legal perspective there would be no issue with accepting those 
changes (as long as the wording tracks existing legal charges(s)  as the wording will have 
been considered previously).
The solicitors did so in December 2021.  
Given this timeline of events, along with the evidence Ive seen overall, I find it difficult to 
conclude the bank was responsible any significant delays in agreeing to the changes the 
trustees wanted. 
I acknowledge its a little unclear on receiving Ts solicitors initial email in June 2021, when 
precisely the banks legal department was asked for its advice. But that was provided in 
August 2021. 
Quite possibly this could have happened more speedily but on balance I do not think this 
amounted to significant delay. Afterwards the bank actively considered the trustees 
proposal, and in the process requested information, as it was invited to do if needed, to be 
able to give final approval to their proposal. Therefore, I do not find that the bank should be 
held responsible for any increase in building costs that may have arisen during the period of 
its consideration.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman