DRN-2485163
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
February 1999. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold him 
PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below.
 
Ive noticed that Mr R hasnt said he didnt know he had agreed to take out this policy, or that 
he was told he had to have it. So I think its fair to conclude he agreed to take out this policy 
because it was a form of protection he wanted to have. Whilst the paperwork from the sale is 
no longer available, this is supported by the fact that Ive seen BoSs record showing Mr R 
answered several questions to check that he was eligible for the cover. 
It looks likely that BoS recommended the PPI to Mr R and that he took the policy out at a 
meeting in a branch. BoS therefore had to check that the PPI was right for him. And the 
evidence about Mr Rs circumstances at the time shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable for him. For example as Ive mentioned above, Mr R was eligible for the 
cover and although he told us he was entitled to work benefits of up to 3 months if he was 
unable to work, the policy would pay out for much longer  up to 12 months  if he made a 
successful claim on the policy. And it would have avoided the necessity on him having to fall 
back on other financial resources he may have had. 
There was nothing else about Mr Rs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt us about any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect his ability to claim. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr R as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to 
what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was given. It also looks 
like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr R would have declined the cover had BoS done 
anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and 
other exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think he 
would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr R would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Rs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022. Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman