DRN-4019800
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB) failed to refund monies they lost 
as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H were looking for a replacement car to purchase and saw one advertised on 
a popular online marketplace. The car was being offered for sale from a business Ill refer to 
as V. Mr H contacted V by email and asked about the car. He also asked them to provide the 
best price for a direct payment into their bank account.
Mr H and the representative of V continued to discuss the sale of the car. Mr H was unable 
to view the car in person due to the distance from his home to where the car was for sale, 
but a video of the car was provided by V. The car was being offered at roughly half the 
market value and V explained that they sold repossessed cars which enabled them to offer 
them at such a good price.
Mr H conducted a number of checks on both V and the car, including checking that the 
company were properly registered with Companies House (they were) and that the car 
wasnt stolen or had any outstanding debt on it. After reassuring himself and Mrs H, they 
paid half of the agreed price (£3,700) via a bank transfer to a company bank account given 
to them by V. The bank account was a different company name to V.
V issued an invoice for the car to Mr H and Mrs H and about a week after the first payment, 
Mrs H made the final £3,700 payment for the car. Mr H and Mrs H couldnt see that the 
payment had successfully reached Vs accounts and called AIB about the payment. 
A conversation about the payment was held which identified that the payment that morning 
had been completed, but it had then been sent back by the company to Mr H and Mrs Hs 
account. The original payment had also been returned, but there didnt appear to be any 
reason for this. AIB checked their systems and couldnt see that there had been any problem 
with the payment and concluded that the company had returned it to Mr H and Mrs Hs 
accounts. Mrs H advised AIB that she would check with the company to see what was going 
on.
V told Mr H and Mrs H in an email that the mistake was their fault and sent them updated 
bank details for the car payments, for a different company bank account. Mr H and Mrs H 
then made two further payments (2 x £3,700) to them for the full price of the car.
V didnt deliver the vehicle and couldnt be contacted by Mr H. Eventually Mr H and Mrs H 
realised theyd been scammed and contacted AIB about the issue. AIB attempted to recover 
the funds, but they had already been removed from the account. Mr H and Mrs H 
complained to AIB about their loss, believing that theyd failed them by not intervening, 
particularly when the original payments had been returned into their account. AIB rejected 
their complaint and Mr H and Mrs H brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review.
It was looked into by one of our investigators who examined the evidence provided by both 
parties. Mr H was able to supply copies of the emails hed had with V and checks hed 
carried out. AIB provided details about the account and calls held with Mr H and Mrs H.
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that 
the first payment wasnt so unusual that AIB should have intervened and didnt think that AIB 
could have prevented the scam, even if theyd have done more when the payments were 
returned and had a conversation with Mr H and Mrs H before they resent their payments for 
the car. 
Mr H and Mrs H disagreed and asked for a further review of their complaint, commenting 
that:
The first payment was unusual compared to the normal running of the account, so 
AIB should have intervened at that point.
AIB should have considered that the return of the funds was unusual and done more 
to protect them. Because AIB didnt consider the returns as suspicious, this gave 
confidence to Mr H and Mrs H that the transaction was legitimate. 
If AIB had given any indication that something was wrong, the payments wouldnt 
have been made.
Mr H and Mrs H feel that they are being penalised for being diligent and carrying out 
research to protect themselves.
The loss has had a negative impact on Mr Hs health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
I was sorry to hear that Mr H and Mrs H were the victims of a scam which has had a 
negative impact on Mr Hs health. Firstly, I need to assess the issue of who authorised the 
payments.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises. These were all authorised payments even 
though Mr H and Mrs H were the victim of a scam. Mr H and Mrs H made the payments 
themselves.
So, although they did not intend the money to go to a fraudster, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of the account, theyre presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.
But that is not the end of the story. AIB also has an obligation to be on the lookout for, and to 
protect its customers from, potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and identifying suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of 
character. In situations when potential fraud is identified, I would expect AIB to intervene and 
attempt to prevent the loss.
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
Mr H and Mrs H think AIB should have intervened on the first payment, but here, I dont think 
theres enough about the transaction that AIB should have reasonably concluded there was 
something suspicious. The size of this payment wouldnt generally alert the bank that it was 
unusual, even though the account wasnt normally used to make these types of payments. If 
there were other factors such as the payment emptying the account, then I would probably 
have a different opinion. The size of the payment to a company account that left funds 
available just wasnt enough for AIB to conclude there was something unusual about it.
When the second payment was made and all the funds sent were returned to Mr H and Mrs 
Hs account, this resulted in a conversation with AIB to try to work out what had happened. 
Listening to the call, its apparent there was some initial confusion about what had 
happened. Eventually, after consulting another colleague, it was established that the 
payment made by Mrs H that morning had been sent back by the company, rather than it 
being rejected for some reason.
There were no indications at that point that any of the payments returned into Mr H and Mrs 
Hs account were the result of suspicions by the receiving bank. If there had been, then I 
would expect AIB to have acted on them. But, as they appeared to have been sent back with 
no further explanation, I dont think AIB had any reason to suspect a scam was taking place. 
Mr H and Mrs H think that AIB had enough reason to discuss the background to the third and 
fourth payments and I tend to agree. On the day they sent these payments, several 
transactions had been made into and out of their account which werent usual and had the 
added issues of payments being returned for no particular reason. Mr H and Mrs H believe 
that if AIB had raised questions about the third and fourth payments, they wouldnt have 
gone on to make them. 
But, whilst I think AIB could have done more at the point Mr H and Mrs H made the final two 
payments, I dont think it would have made a difference to whether they would have gone on 
to make those payments. Thats because at that point Mr H and Mrs H had enquired with V 
about the failed payments, theyd been given new company and bank account details to 
send the money to. If AIB had again spoken to Mr H and Mrs H, Im not sure what they could 
have added to the situation. Thats because Mr H and Mrs H had already carried out 
research on V and the car to satisfy themselves about the sale, including checking the 
company selling the vehicle which confirmed they were registered with Companies House as 
a vehicle sales business, the vehicle itself through an independent car checking service and 
theyd also received a legitimate looking receipt and invoice from V. 
I dont think the use of other company accounts (rather than a private account) to accept the 
payment is particularly unusual and the fact that real companies were involved strengthened 
the appearance that this was a legitimate sale of a car. What AIB should likely have said is 
that Mr H and Mrs H view the car before parting with any funds, because this is general 
advice given in similar situations. This had already been ruled out due to the perceived 
distance required to travel and V had provided a video of the car. AIB may also have advised 
that it would be safer to pay for the vehicle through the site that advertised the car, because 
there is often buyer protection available. But Mr H had already approached V to seek their best price to pay for the vehicle directly through a bank transfer. 
I appreciate Mr H and Mrs H feel that theyre being penalised for being diligent and trying to 
protect themselves by carrying out research, but I can only find in their favour if AIB have 
failed to prevent the scam when theres evidence to show they should have done.
Fund recovery attempts
Once AIB were told about the loss, they attempted to recover the funds from the beneficiary 
bank, but unfortunately the bulk of the funds had been removed from the account within a 
few hours of its receipt. I dont think that AIB could have reasonably done any more here to 
recover the bulk of  the funds as they were already gone by the time the alarm was raised.
AIB were told that £20 was left in the account which they advised they were attempting to 
recover. I appreciate this will likely be cold comfort to Mr H and Mrs H, but AIB should 
continue to make attempts to recover the funds for payment back to them if this hasnt 
already taken place.
Overall here, I dont think that AIB could reasonably have identified there was a scam and 
whilst Im sympathetic to Mr H and Mrs Hs loss as they were the victims of a cruel fraud, I 
cant fairly hold AIB responsible for failing to prevent it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman