DRN-3492321
The complaint
Ms Y complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with a payment out of her account.
What happened
Ms Y says she asked HSBC to transfer just over £1,000 from her account to her account 
held abroad in October 2021. She says there were a number of delays and problems which 
resulted in her making numerous calls to HSBC. Ms Y says the payment was held on two 
occasions for fraud checks and in the end, she transferred the money to a friend as she was 
told her HSBC account was closing. She says it took some time for her friend to repay the 
money and says she was caused distress as a result of the delay. Ms Y says her 
professional charging rate is over £300 an hour and would like compensation of at least 
£600 based on that charging rate.
HSBC accepts it didnt deal with the transfer as it should and has apologised. It says it was 
entitled to hold a payment where it had security concerns but accepts that it could have dealt 
more appropriately with this transfer. HSBC says it has paid £200 compensation and would 
consider any additional costs such as call costs.
Ms Y brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation award was 
appropriate. The investigator thought HSBC was entitled to hold a payment where there 
were security concerns and didnt think HSBC responsible for the delay in Ms Y being repaid 
by her friend. The investigator didnt think Ms Y would have lost her money if her account 
was closed.
Ms Y doesnt accept that view and maintains the compensation award isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has paid an appropriate 
compensation amount.
I am sure Ms Y appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies 
and that they must have measures in place to protect its and its customers money. I accept 
on occasions that legitimate transactions can be subject to security measures and inevitably 
customers are caused inconvenience in those circumstances. I am satisfied that is what took 
place here that Ms Ys attempted payment was blocked, and that HSBC tried to speak with 
her about it but without success. So, I dont think HSBC made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
blocking the payment and that it fairly tried to speak with Ms Y about it.
I accept that there was a delay in sorting matters out and that a further payment attempt 
appears to have been blocked. But I can see that HSBC accepts there were issues dealing 
with that transfer and has apologised for them.
The only real issue for me to decide in this complaint is the level of compensation. And Im 
satisfied that Ms Y received her money and that it was her choice to sent it to her friend. I 
dont think, by HSBC saying it would close Ms Ys account, that would have had any impact 
on her receiving her money. I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for any delay caused by 
sending the money to her friend. I can also see that Ms Y was able to send the money 
shortly after the issues and that she didnt suffer any real financial loss as a result of what 
took place. For those reasons Im satisfied the compensation paid by HSBC is fair and 
reasonable and fairly reflects the impact on Ms Y.
I appreciate Ms Y says compensation here should be calculated in line with her professional 
charging rate. But I disagree and dont think Ms Y was acting in a professional capacity here 
or providing a legal service to HSBC that would justify such a fee. I also make clear that is 
not how we approach awarding compensation.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC has acted fairly by apologising to Ms Y and by paying 
appropriate compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman