DRN-4055757
The complaint
Mr R complains about Hiscox Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his claim made on a 
home contents insurance policy.
Hiscox is the underwriter of the policy. Aspects of this complaint concern the actions of its 
agent, a firm of loss adjusters Ill refer to as S. As Hiscox has accepted its accountable for 
the actions of S, in my decision, any reference to Hiscox also includes the actions of S.
Mr Rs brought his complaint via a third-party representative. For convenience Ill simply 
refer to Mr R.
What happened
Very briefly, in July 2021 Mr Rs home was unfortunately affected by flooding which resulted 
in damage to the building and its contents. Mr R contacted Hiscox as the policy he held with 
it covered the latter (though not the former). 
Hiscox arranged for a disaster restoration company (DRC) to initially assess the damage 
and for S to act as Hiscoxs loss adjuster. A list of items deemed by one or more parties to 
be beyond economic repair (BER) was compiled. 
Ultimately, Hiscox accepted the claim in part and offered to pay Mr R £20,633.24. Mr R 
argued that didnt reflect the true value of the claim, which he put at £52,850.07 in total. But 
Hiscox responded that it was entitled to act on the advice of S, which Hiscox felt had acted 
reasonably throughout the process and hadnt ignored Mr R as previously alleged. Hiscox 
added it expected S to validate any substantiated costs that remained outstanding in line 
with the policy terms and conditions  meaning it might be in a position to offer Mr R more 
depending on any supporting evidence he could provide.
Unhappy with Hiscoxs response, Mr R complained to this service. In essence, he said S 
refused to enter into discussions on the claim for between three to four months and ignored 
his complaints. Mr R felt Hiscoxs list of items deemed BER was too limited and didnt take 
account of all the items affected, leaving a shortfall of around £25,000. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. In 
summary, they felt Hiscox had settled the claim fairly based on its list of items deemed BER 
and that there wasnt sufficient evidence to show otherwise. The investigator wasnt 
persuaded that Hiscox had caused avoidable delays in assessing the claim or complaint.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators findings. Among other things, he said S 
representative only worked part-time, slowing down the process, making them difficult to 
reach and resulting in delays. He felt hed been unfairly penalised for not mitigating his 
losses when in fact this was because of a lack of contact from S.  
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint to Mr Rs satisfaction, despite responding 
to his further comments, it was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr R feels the investigator was biased in reaching the findings that they did. 
Im sorry he feels that way, but I can assure him that Ive been led by the available evidence 
in deciding the complaint. Id also add that while Ive considered all the points the parties 
have made, Im not required to address them all in setting out my decision. Instead, Ive 
focussed on the key issues that I believe go to the heart of Mr Rs complaint.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr R suffered flood damage to his home and its contents and that at 
least some degree of cover for the latter was provided by the policy he held with Hiscox. Nor 
is it in dispute that the amount offered (and I believe paid) to Mr R was due to him. The key 
issue for me to consider is whether Hiscox offered him enough and, if not, what it should do 
to put things right for him. I also need to consider the way in which it handled Mr Rs 
concerns to see if it did so fairly. 
Taking the decision Hiscox made on the claim first, I recognise Mr R feels its offer was too 
low. But I think it was entitled to appoint S and the DRC it did to assist it in dealing with the 
claim. It follows that I consider Hiscox was entitled to rely on their findings in deciding the 
amount payable. 
Mr R and Hiscox agree that the latters DRC was turned away by Mr R when it attempted to 
carry out one of its on-site surveys in July 2021. That was because Mr R had by then 
arranged for his own DRC to deal with matters. While Mr R was entitled to instruct his own 
firm, Im satisfied this probably affected the claim. For example, S mentioned items damaged 
by being left in Mr Rs home, leaving them susceptible to damp and mould from the flood 
waters. S concluded that this damage was avoidable as, had it been allowed to enter at that 
time, Mr R would have been advised to remove the items for cleaning to or to prevent further 
damage. Im persuaded on balance the additional damage wouldnt have occurred had 
Hiscoxs DRC been allowed to assess Mr Rs home contents when it tried to.
There were also discrepancies in some of the amounts Mr R was claiming and, in some 
cases, the claim was shown to be excessive by thousands of pounds. Im aware that 
mistakes can happen, but such findings will inevitably lead to the value of the claim 
decreasing depending on the true value of those items. 
Taking everything into account, including the lack of persuasive evidence from Mr R showing 
otherwise, I consider that Hiscoxs offer to settle the claim was fair. 
Im aware that Mr R believes Hiscox could have acted more quickly in dealing with his claim, 
meaning it would have been resolved sooner. But Im mindful that claims such as these, for 
example involving third parties (either acting on the instruction of the consumer or the 
insurer) and numerous personal items to be assessed, can take time to investigate. Of 
course, I understand that Mr R would want his claim to be paid quickly  hes suffered flood 
damage and significant disruption to his day-to-day life. But I also understand Hiscoxs need 
to ensure the claim was legitimate and appropriately supported by the evidence before 
paying out. 
I take Mr Rs point about S representative working part-time. But Ive not seen enough 
evidence to show that materially impacted on how the claim was handled or that it led to 
delays. No-one could reasonably expect immediate responses in these circumstances and, overall, I think S replied to any queries from Mr R in a timely manner. That included S 
dealing promptly with queries from the loss adjuster acting for the third-party buildings 
insurance provider.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman