DRN-2662289
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled their 
home insurance claim for damage caused by a water leak.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their home insurance policy in January 2020 having 
discovered damage to their kitchen caused by a leak on their mains water pipe. Mr and 
Mrs B claimed on their home emergency policy and had the leak fixed.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to assess and validate the claim and he attended Mr and 
Mrs Bs home in mid-January once the leak was fixed. The claim was accepted and 
contractors appointed to carry out strip out works and dry the property. It was decided that 
the kitchen units needed to be removed in order to aid the drying process. They were to be 
stored off-site and reused if not damaged beyond repair. The drying contractor issued its 
drying certificate in early March 2020. 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy that the units could be reused and that they had been left with 
mould in their home. So in March 2020 they told the loss adjuster they no longer wished to 
deal with him, that they didnt want Lloyds contractor to undertake the repairs and that they 
had appointed their own loss assessor to assist them with their claim. Lloyds loss adjuster 
asked the loss assessor to present Mr and Mrs Bs claim for further consideration. That 
wasnt presented until early November 2020, despite the loss adjuster chasing for it. The 
loss assessor said Mr and Mrs Bs claim costs came to £57,949.45. 
Lloyds didnt agree with the costs presented or the fact that the kitchen units needed 
replacing. The loss adjuster said the schedule was significantly in excess of his scoped 
repairs and he asked for a breakdown of the kitchen costs  included at £20,000  as this 
formed a significant part of the loss assessors schedule of costs. 
By this time Mr and Mrs B had complained to Lloyds. They said they were unhappy with the 
service theyd received from Lloyds and its loss adjuster, that the loss adjuster hadnt 
communicated with them, that the units were to be reused and that they werent given the 
option to have their claim cash settled and to appoint their own builder. Lloyds looked into 
their complaint and issued its final response in late November 2020. Lloyds agreed to 
appoint a contractor to inspect the units and provide a professional opinion about whether 
they could be reused. Lloyds said it was sorry that its service had, at times, failed to meet Mr 
and Mrs Bs expectations for which it paid them compensation of £150.  
Unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to Lloyds, Mr and Mrs B complained to this 
service. They said they wanted their claim costs met by Lloyds in cash along with a 
substantial amount of compensation. Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt 
recommend that it was upheld. He thought that Lloyds had handled Mr and Mrs Bs claim 
fairly and reasonably and, for the poor communication and service failings, that itd paid 
them fair compensation of £150. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our investigators findings and said that their complaint to this 
service related only to the bad service theyd received. They said they only wanted what was 
due to them under the policy. And they said they felt this service wasnt impartial. 
Our investigator looked at what Mr and Mrs B had said but wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. He explained that this service acted impartially at all times. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B made their claim to Lloyds in mid-January 2020. A loss adjuster was 
appointed and attended within days. The claim was accepted and contractors appointed to 
dry out the house. They too arrived within a few days, sanitised any areas affected with 
mould and installed drying equipment. They returned again on 10 February 2020 to remove 
more mould and take moisture readings. The readings showed little improvement from the 
visit two weeks previously so the contractor recommended the removal of the kitchen base 
units to improve airflow. The contractor installed props so that the kitchen worktops could 
stay in situ and recommended the installation of heat mats once the units were removed.
 
A contractor was engaged to strip out and store the units. This took place on or around 25 
February and on 6 March 2020 the drying contractor returned to take further moisture 
readings. The property was declared dry, the necessary certificate issued and the equipment 
removed from site. The drying contractor told Lloyds that the claim could proceed to 
reinstatement. The reinstatement contractor was updated on 11 March 2020 and Lloyds 
asked it to contact Mr and Mrs B to arranged reinstatement works. 
The loss adjuster called Mr and Mrs B on 18 March 2020 and it was during this call that Mr B 
told him that they were to appoint their own loss assessor and that they no longer wished to 
communicate with Lloyds anymore. They also said that they didnt want Lloyds contractor to 
complete the repairs. 
The loss adjuster agreed to wait to hear from Mr and Mrs Bs loss assessor. Three weeks 
later the loss assessor sent the adjuster Mr and Mrs Bs signed mandate. Nothing further 
was heard until 18 May 2020 when the loss assessor said he was waiting for Lloyds 
response so the claim could be progressed. The loss adjuster replied the same day to say 
that that he was waiting for the loss assessor to present his proposals to settle the claim. 
The loss assessor replied to say that hed contacted his network of contractors who he 
hoped would visit the property shortly. 
The loss adjuster asked for an update on 24 June and was told a report was being compiled. 
Photos of the units in storage were also sought and provided on 3 July. The loss assessor 
was chased over the next few months, telling Lloyds in late October that he was still waiting 
for some information from Mr and Mrs B before he was in a position to present their 
proposal. I can see that was finally sent to Lloyds in early November.
This is an impartial dispute resolution service. We look at all the evidence we receive from 
both parties to reach a fair and reasonable resolution to any complaint that is brought to us. 
The nature of our work means that one party to a complaint will always be left disappointed 
with the outcome of the complaint. Here, Im afraid, thats going to be Mr and Mrs B. They have made it clear  despite stating in their complaint form that they were unhappy 
with the decisions taken by Lloyds on the claim itself  that they only want us to look at their 
complaint about the very bad service they have received from Lloyds.
All home insurance claims, by their very nature, attract a certain level of disruption and 
inconvenience, thats to be expected. But where an insurer, through its words or deeds, 
makes an already stressful situation worse, then this service can require it to pay 
compensation to the policyholder. To require Lloyds to pay Mr and Mrs B further 
compensation (beyond the £150 they have already received) I would have to be fairly and 
reasonably satisfied that Lloyds, and its agents, had caused them avoidable trouble and 
upset.  
Ive set out in the paragraphs above a detailed timeline of Lloyds interactions and 
communications with Mr and Mrs B. Escape of water claims can be some of the more 
protracted and difficult claims presented to an insurer. But here I can see that Lloyds 
handled Mr and Mrs Bs claim expeditiously. It was moving along  from notification to 
reinstatement in less than two months  at an admirable pace for a claim of this nature, until 
Mr and Mrs B decided they didnt want Lloyds contractor to carry out the repairs and that 
they wanted their own loss assessor to be appointed. 
Both actions are, of course, within Mr and Mrs Bs right to request and arrange. But these 
actions caused the claim to stall, something which I cant fairly agree was in any way the 
fault of Lloyds. And the decision about how the claim is to be settled rests, under the policy 
terms, with Lloyds. 
Mr and Mrs B made it clear to Lloyds in mid-March 2020 that they would no longer deal with 
it directly. They said they only wanted communications to go through their loss assessor. 
And, as can be seen from the timeline in the above paragraphs, it took him many months to 
present their claim to Lloyds. Indeed, he told Lloyds in late-October 2020 that he was still 
waiting for Mr and Mrs B to provide him with information so he could forward their claim 
proposal. 
So, Im unable to fairly and reasonably conclude from the evidence available to me that Mr 
and Mrs B were recipients of very bad service from Lloyds such that would warrant any 
further award of compensation. Lloyds has paid Mr and Mrs B compensation of £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience any shortcomings in the service they received caused them (I 
can see this included some unreturned phone calls). I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Indeed, if this complaint had passed across my desk without any such award 
having already been made, its unlikely I would have awarded as much.
I appreciate the strength of feeling Mr and Mrs B have expressed about their complaint and 
the shortcomings they believe to be evident with this service. I can only weigh up the 
evidence I am provided with and reach a fair and reasonable decision based upon it. And Im 
afraid for Mr and Mrs B that, having done so, Im unable to uphold their complaint. I know 
that they will be disappointed that I havent addressed in this decision the many questions 
and points they have made during the course of their complaint to us. But we arent obliged 
to do so. Ive concentrated on the relevant issues and crux of the complaint. And if Mr and 
Mrs B are unhappy with my decision then they need not accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman