DRN-2860233
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded her the money she lost when she 
fell victim to an online scam. 
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to the
bank upholding Miss Ds complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Miss D wanted to book flights for travel to visit family and was browsing the internet. 
She came across an advert for a travel company with deals she was interested in. 
She says she checked the companys details on the ATOL website and it came back 
as a genuine company with a certificate number. So Miss D filled in her details online 
and then received a call from an advisor. Unfortunately, Miss D was really speaking 
to a fraudster. 
The fraudster told Miss D that she needed to pay half as a deposit, so on 
24 February 2020 Miss D used her mobile banking to send a payment of £1,750 to 
the bank details the fraudster gave her in an invoice. She did so on the premise she 
was booking flights through a legitimate travel company.
The fraudsters provided false documents which were very similar to what a genuine
travel company would issue, such as an ATOL certificate.
Miss D discovered shed been scammed when she was unable to contact the 
company to pay the remaining balance. She contacted Barclays for help on 
27 February 2020, but it was unable to recover any of the money shed sent from the 
receiving bank. 
Miss D complained to Barclays and her complaint was considered under the Contingent
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is a voluntary scheme Barclays has signed up
to, designed to reimburse customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position
under the Code is for a customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it
establishes that a customer has not met their requisite level of care. In making such an
assessment, a firm may consider whether the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Barclays said it would not reimburse Miss D for the payment she sent. It said she did not 
take steps to satisfy herself the business she was paying was legitimate. It suggests Miss D 
assumed the business was genuine because it provided an ATOL number and she should 
have done more research. It also suggested that it provided Miss D with relevant warning 
messages at the time she made the payment, but she chose to proceed. 
Miss D brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with Barclays decision. 
When Barclays submitted its complaint papers to us, it said it was not upholding Miss Ds 
claim because she had not completed due diligence before making the payment. It pointed 
out Miss D had said the travel company did not have its own website, and that she didnt 
receive the ATOL certificate until after shed made the payment. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. 
She pointed out Barclays had not provided a copy of the warning it says Miss D saw and that 
the bank had not been clear about whether it considered Miss D had ignored an
effective warning. She was not persuaded that Barclays had been able to establish that 
Miss D should not be reimbursed on the basis that she ignored an effective warning about 
the circumstances of the payment she was making.
Our investigator also did not think that Barclays had been able to establish that Miss D did
not have a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person she was expecting 
to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the person or business 
with whom they transacted with was legitimate. She did not think there was anything 
concerning about the way the fraudster had interacted with Miss D when they spoke on the 
phone and over email and she did not think the price quoted for the flights was outside of 
what flights to this destination typically cost. She noted the fraudster had provided Miss D 
with an invoice, an ATOL certificate and that Miss D had also interacted on an online chat 
function. She felt it was more likely than not that the fraudster had cloned a genuine travel 
company. 
The investigator concluded Barclays ought to have reimbursed Miss Ds loss under the 
provisions of the CRM Code at the time she made her claim. She said Barclays should now 
settle the complaint by refunding Miss Ds £1,750 loss together with interest on the sum at 
the simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined her claim to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 9 February 2021 with a deadline for 
responding of 23 February 2021. Barclays responded on 18 February 2021 and said it would 
like to provide a copy of the scam warning Miss D would have seen before making the 
payment to us. It also asked our investigator to provide copies of Miss Ds correspondence 
with the fraudster, including the emails she received and a copy of the ATOL certificate. 
Our investigator provided the requested information to the bank that day. The bank has not 
responded further. As such, the case has now been escalated to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the
failure by a party to provide information requested;And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Barclays to say whether it 
accepts the investigators initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis 
of the evidence we already have and/or to take account of Barclays failure to reply to the
investigators opinion.
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Miss D ought to have been reimbursed when she
notified Barclays of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not she met her
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. I believe she did, and for substantively the 
same reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Miss D to have received a refund of her loss at the time.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Miss D ought
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay Miss D:
the money she lost as part of the scam - £1,750  within 28 days of
receiving notification of her acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly
deductible) from the date Barclays declined Miss Ds claim under the CRM to the
date of settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ds complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2021. 
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman