DRN-2142522
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (trading as Alliance & Leicester at the time) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr and Mrs W took out in 1999 to protect their existing 
mortgage repayments. It gave them accident, sickness and unemployment cover and they 
paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. They disagreed with the
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as some of it is here) I have reached my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. So on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and I have followed it here.
Santander hasnt been able to provide Mr and Mrs Ws exact policy document, so I have
relied on one from the nearest available date. 
I want to first comment on the date of sale. Mr and Mrs W recall they took out the PPI in 
1990 at the beginning of their mortgage and have sent in a quote for a Complete Home 
Protection Plan dated 1990 which lists a monthly payments insurance. But Santander has 
provided evidence showing the PPI was taken out in 1999  it has sent in a record of all 
premiums paid showing the start and end date of the policy and a copy of the welcome letter 
Mr and Mrs W were sent dated 12 October 1999. 
Like our adjudicator, I went back to Santander to ask about the listing of the monthly 
payments insurance on the document entitled Complete Home Protection Plan dated 
February 1990. Unfortunately, it cannot provide further information on what this is, but has 
re-confirmed that this does not relate to a PPI policy. Also, it seems to me that this document 
was a quote prepared for Mr and Mrs W in February 1990 so it possibly may not reflect the 
final package they selected. I suggest this as the April 1990 document entitled Mortgage 
Instructions sets out in section four (Particulars of Advance) that the only additional payment 
included within their monthly payment was the buildings insurance premium. Equally, the 
notification of a change to their interest rate sent in 1991 again says there is an amount 
included in the mortgage payment to cover their buildings insurance premium. It makes no 
mention of a PPI policy. 
So, on balance, given the available evidence I think its most likely the date of sale was 
1999, rather than in 1990 when their mortgage started. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander says for the PPI to be set up Mr and Mrs W would need to have completed and
signed an application form and a direct debit mandate. It cant provide copies of their forms
but this isnt unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. In cases like this where there is
limited evidence, I have to decide what I think is most likely. I have thought carefully about
Mr and Mrs Ws comments, but I also have to consider how long ago the sale was and how
that might affect what they recall. 
Mr and Mrs W took out the PPI as a standalone policy in 1999 to protect their existing 
mortgage, not at the same time as they applied to borrow any money. It seems likely 
therefore they would have understood it was a separate, optional product and they didnt 
need it to get their mortgage or a further advance.
Overall, I think its more likely than not that Santander made it clear the PPI was optional and 
Mr and Mrs W agreed to take it out. I can understand they might not recall this given how 
long ago the sale was.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to make sure it was suitable for 
them. They say the bank did no investigation and didnt establish if they had a need for the 
policy. They also say as they had recently reduced their mortgage the PPI was inappropriate 
for their circumstances. 
Santander says the adviser identified a need for both customers to secure their mortgage 
repayments and so recommended PPI. But it hasnt provided any evidence of how it did this, 
so I cant know that it carried out an appropriate review. However, this doesnt mean I can 
automatically conclude the policy was mis-sold. What I need to decide is that if Santander 
failed to take the right steps to make sure the PPI was suitable, whether Mr and Mrs W lost 
out as a result? And I dont think they have. I say this as based on what I know of their 
circumstances at the time I think the PPI was right for them. Ill explain why.
Mr W was entitled to six weeks full pay and six weeks half pay if he was sick, and Mrs W 
was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick, but the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 12 months for accident 
and sickness claims. It also gave them up to 12 months unemployment cover which would 
have allowed them to protect any lump sum redundancy payment(s) giving increased 
financial stability at an already difficult time. 
I know Mr W also had an income security plan giving him some accident and sickness cover, 
but it only paid out to a maximum of 50% of salary so I dont think this meant they had no 
need for the PPI. They told us they had around £2000 in savings, an endowment and a unit 
trust/PEP type savings plan. But the PPI would have allowed them to use any easily 
accessible savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working, and to protect their 
long-term investments that most likely would have had early access penalties or restrictions.
Mr and Mrs W had a debt secured on their home, and the consequences of missing a 
mortgage payment are serious. So, overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr 
and Mrs W, in addition to their existing means, if they were sick, had an accident or lost their 
job(s).
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs W all the information they need to make an
informed decision. But I dont think they have lost out because of this. The PPI wasapparently affordable and a reasonable cost for the benefit it offered. And it seems Mr and 
Mrs W werent affected by the main exclusions and limitation of the policy. So I dont think 
they would have made a different decision with better information.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of any problems with this and I 
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman