DRN-3257978
The complaint 
Mr M complains about the actions of Carey Pensions UK LLP (now Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP) in 2011. Mr M is represented and his representative says that Carey 
accepted an introduction by an unregulated investment broker. This introduction was 
made so that a pension switch could take place from Mr Ms existing pension to a Carey 
SIPP. That was so that a high risk unregulated investment could be made within the SIPP 
 which was unsuitable for Mr M.
Mr Ms representative says that Carey failed to carry out sufficient due diligence at the 
time on the introducer or the investment and this led to significant financial loss for Mr M. 
It says Carey did not check that the introducer had the relevant qualifications to provide 
advice on pensions. It said that Carey didnt act in Mr Ms best interests.
What happened
Carey is now Options so, whilst I note that many of the matters that are the subject of 
this complaint occurred when Mr M was dealing with Carey, I will refer to Options 
throughout. 
In 2011 Mr M says he was contacted by Mr Anthony Marchi of ILAWS Scotland (ILAWS) 
who offered to discuss his pension arrangements and persuaded him to switch his 
existing pension schemes into a SIPP. He was then advised by Mr Marchi to invest into 
Global Forestry Investments to generate better returns than his existing pension 
providers.
Mr M subsequently applied to switch his pensions to the Options SIPP in 2011 
and subsequently instructed investment into a Global Forestry investment in 
Brazil.
Ive set out the various parties involved in Mr Ms pension switch and subsequent 
investment in detail below.
Options Plc
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. It was regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) at the time of the events complained about  now the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It was  and still is  authorised to arrange (bring 
about) deals in investments; deal in investments as principal; establish, operate and 
wind up a personal pension scheme; and make arrangements with a view to 
transactions in investments.
ILAWS
ILAWS is a business based in Scotland. It sets out on its website that it specialises in Will 
writing and asset protection. It is also set out that it can provide pension and savings 
reviews. ILAWS current website does not set out that it is regulated to provide any services 
by any regulatory body or authority. It does not say it is regulated by the FCA. ILAWS does 
not appear on the FCA Register of regulated businesses for any activities.
Easson Financial Services (EFS)
Mr Easson of EFS is recorded on Mr Ms Options SIPP application as the adviser that 
provided him with advice as to his pension transfer. EFS is recorded on the FCA Register 
as a regulated firm from 15 October 2008. It is also recorded that it is an appointed 
representative of First Complete (FCA reference number 435779), and was an appointed 
representative of First Complete at the time of the events complained of. First Complete is 
authorised to undertake insurance activities. It is not authorised to provide pension and 
investment advice or undertake activities in respect of pensions and investments.
Global Forestry
Global Forestry was an investment in a leasehold plot of a Teak tree plantation in 
Brazil. This aim was for a positive investment return generated through the 
development of Teak trees. Mr Ms specific investment was the Belem Sky Plantation 
Project. Mr M invested
£40,000 of the money switched to his SIPP in this investment.
The relationship between ILAWS and Options
Options has not said how its relationship with ILAWS came about or what the nature of 
that relationship would be. It has not said what its agreement with ILAWS was. Factually 
speaking, it did accept an introduction from ILAWS (Mr M). And this seems to have been 
the first such introduction bearing in mind that when ILAWS sent Mr Ms SIPP application 
to it, ILAWS said, Please find enclosed applications for our first case with you.
Mr Ms submissions
Mr M has said that he was contacted by Mr Marchi of ILAWS as he was a previous 
customer of Capital Mortgage Connections (CMC) - Mr Marchis old firm. He said Mr 
Marchi offered to discuss his pension arrangements and persuaded him to switch his 
existing pension schemes into a SIPP. He was then advised by Mr Marchi to invest into 
Global Forestry Investments to generate better returns than his existing pension 
providers. He was then introduced to Options by ILAWS so that his pension could be 
switched to a SIPP and investment made in Global Forestry.
Options investigation of Mr Ms complaint
In its response to the complaint, Options:
Said Mr M instructed it to open his SIPP, switch his existing pensions to it and 
make the Global Forestry investment. Mr M decided to use ILAWS and also 
signed to indicate he had received advice from EFS.
Said Options did not provide advice in relation to the SIPP or subsequent 
investment. It acted on Mr Ms specific instructions. It acted on an execution only 
basis, as instructed by Mr M.Said Options is not responsible for the acts of ILAWS or EFS and it was not 
privy to any discussions Mr M had with them.
Said Options had acted in a transparent and reasonable manner in its dealings 
with Mr M.
Set out various declarations Mr M had signed when setting up the SIPP. 
These set out that Options wasnt responsible for any of the investment 
decisions Mr M made and it didnt provide him with any advice.
Said its terms and conditions set out that it was Mr Ms responsibility to 
ensure any transfers or investments were in his best interests, not Options.
Set out that the documentation Mr M completed explained that it did not 
provide advice and was not responsible for any investment decisions the 
individual made. It said it noted that it was indicated that Mr Easson had 
provided Mr M with advice.
Said ILAWS acted as an introducer to it and werent regulated. ILAWS didnt 
provide advice. It did not act inappropriately in accepting an instruction from 
ILAWS.
Said it did carry out due diligence on ILAWS. Whilst this was carried out after 
Mr M invested in Global Forestry through his SIPP, that due diligence showed 
no reason why it should not conduct business with it.
Said it did check that the Global Forestry investment could be held in a SIPP.
Said the SIPP application was submitted to it by Mr Anthony Marchi of ILAWS. 
The application was signed by Mr M on 26 April 2011. The financial adviser 
details part of the form, noting Mr Edward Easson, was received later  on 19 
July 2011. The section was signed by Mr Easson on 6 July 2011 and Mr M on 
14 July 2011.
Said it received a completed Investment Member Declaration dated by Mr M 
on 19 September 2011 setting out he wished to invest in Global Forestry. This 
was witnessed by Mr Marchi. The investment was then made.
Said that when Options became aware of issues with ILAWS it severed links 
with it and escalated its concerns to the FCA and Action Fraud. It said it came to 
its attention after the investment had been made that Mr Easson may not have 
provided Mr M with financial advice. It understands that Mr Eassons signature 
was forged by ILAWS. It had no reason to suspect there was anything untoward 
prior to this. Mr Marchi, had cleared due diligence checks and World-checks 
when these were carried out by Options.
Said ILAWS is still an active company but it no longer accepts introductions from it.
Confirmed it did not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Our investigators view of the complaint
Mr Ms complaint was considered by an investigator at this service. The investigator 
thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary she:Set out the relevant considerations  The FSA/FCAs Principles for 
Businesses and its communications relating to the duties of SIPP operators.
Said that Options should have thought carefully about the business it 
accepted to meet its regulatory obligations.
Said Options obligations would include undertaking appropriate due diligence 
on the introducer  ILAWS. She understood that Mr M was the first customer 
introduced to Options by ILAWS.
Said that when Options received Mr Ms application in April 2011 the financial 
adviser details page was missing. Options requested this and it was received in 
June 2011. However, it was not completed fully and Options requested a 
completed copy  which it did not receive until July 2011. The investigator 
thought that this missing information and the time it took to obtain it, should have 
resulted in Options treating the introduction with caution. Bearing that in mind, it 
should have checked the page carefully when it received it. Mr Edward Easson 
had apparently signed the page on the June and July copies. But the signatures 
differed markedly. The application form had also been altered to change Mr 
Eassons address to that of ILAWS. She said this should have put Options on 
alert and it should therefore have investigated the matter further.
Said that if Options had investigated the matter further then it would have 
discovered that Mr Easson was an appointed representative of First Complete  
which didnt have regulatory permissions to undertake investment and pension 
activities.
Said the issues with the application and the lack of any permissions to 
undertake pension and investment activities should alone have caused 
Options to reject the application.
Said that, in addition, a reasonable level of due diligence would have been to 
carry out checks on ILAWS and its Directors. If Options had carried out 
adequate due diligence on Mr Marchi it would have discovered that he had 
previously been a Director of CMC  which had been fined by the FSA in 
2006 for breaches of FSA Principles.
Said there were significant matters that should have put Options on notice that 
it should not accept Mr Ms introduction. Options had said that after it had 
investigated the matter in 2014 that it discovered Mr Eassons signature had 
been forged. The investigator thought that a reasonable level of investigation 
would have likely discovered the same issue in 2011. Which would have led to 
the application being rejected.
Said Mr M should never have got to the point of signing Options 
indemnities and declarations as his application should never have 
proceeded.
Set out how compensation should be calculated.
We did not receive any response from Options to the investigators assessment.
The complaint was then referred to me for review. 
After considering Mr Ms complaint, I issued a provisional decision on 17 November 2021. In 
the provisional decision I set out why I was minded to uphold the complaint and make an award. 
I have not received any further submissions from Options. 
Mr M has accepted the provisional decision.
As I revisit my provisional findings below I will not include a summary of them here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In arriving at a decision that I believe is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having reconsidered matters, I remain of the view set out in my provisional 
decision. So, as I have no further submissions to consider, I have repeated below 
the findings set out in my provisional decision.
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my 
decision. The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
(PRIN 1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include 
Principles 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of 
the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority 
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They 
are but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the 
Ombudsman to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its 
particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles 
which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the 
essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their 
relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the decision of 
an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The ombudsman 
considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. He 
concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out 
above, said (at paragraph 104):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBA judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in the Berkeley Burke case upheld the lawfulness of the approach 
taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included 
the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations 
that were required to be taken into account.
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of 
the High Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in 
Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken account 
of both these judgments when making this decision on Mr Ms case.
I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his 
initial case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the 
Principles to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no 
consideration to the application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of these 
judgments provide any assistance with the application of the Principles for Businesses, and 
in particular, they say nothing about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of 
statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into 
account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, 
Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in Berkeley 
Burke. So the Principles are a relevant consideration here and I will consider them in 
the specific circumstances of this complaint.Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles:
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
 The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have set out below what I consider to be the key parts of the publications (although I 
have considered them in their entirety).
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to 
ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 
includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual 
risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer 
outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them 
to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management 
information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and 
consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed 
in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to confirm the position, or 
by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are 
not responsible for the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP operators that 
facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor 
advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of 
individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not 
safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the 
Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made 
to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and 
clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP 
business. (my emphasis)
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or 
large transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted 
shares, together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This 
would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client 
or their adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was 
recommended. (my emphasis)
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and 
gathering and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such 
business. (my emphasis)
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 
and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is 
a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP 
operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer 
outcomes. The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the 
following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its 
approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and 
have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA 
website listings for un- authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and 
clarify the responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to 
a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature 
of the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they 
deal with, the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, 
the types of investments they recommend and whether they use other 
SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually 
small or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted 
shares which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, for example from the prospective member or their 
adviser, if it has any concerns. (my emphasis)
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as 
a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it 
administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, 
is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder 
money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting 
business from non- regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and 
retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring 
introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension 
schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators 
should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, 
HMRC is informed and the tax charge paidperiodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect 
of the introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate 
enhancing the processes that are in place in order to identify and 
mitigate any risks to the members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies 
House records, identifying connected parties and visiting 
introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has 
been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the 
minimum standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with 
introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-standard investments 
that have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations 
in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets 
is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at 
point of purchase and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment 
providers are credit worthy etc)
I acknowledge that the 2009 report (and the 2012 report and the Dear CEO letter) are 
not formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, I am of the view 
the fact that the reports and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal (i.e. statutory) 
guidance does not mean their importance or relevance should be underestimated.
The publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to 
good industry practice at the relevant time. I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to 
take them into account.
I do not think the fact that the later publications (i.e. those other than the 2009 Thematic 
Review Report), post-date the events that are the subject of this complaint mean that 
the examples of good industry practice they provide were not good practice at the time 
of the relevant events. It is clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and the 
Dear CEO letter published in 2014), that the regulator expected SIPP operators to 
have incorporated the recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their 
business already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry 
participants understanding of how the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP 
operators changed over time, it is clear the standards themselves had not changed.
The later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, but the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in 
accordance with those Principles. I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not 
consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO 
letter to be of relevance to his consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow 
that those publications are irrelevant to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I am required to take into account good industry 
practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I consider 
amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time.
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Options actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the 
suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the 
Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend 
on the circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
investment in the Global Forestry was suitable for Mr M. It is accepted Options was not 
required to give advice to Mr M, and could not give advice. And I accept the publications 
do not alter the meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what 
I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring 
about the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
I would also add, that even if I took the view that any publications or guidance that post- 
dated the events subject of this complaint do not help to clarify the type of good industry 
practice that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that does not alter my view on 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. That is because I find that 
the 2009 report together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what Options 
could and should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the 
relevant time before accepting any introduction from ILAWS and/or allowing the 
investment into the SIPP.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Options complied 
with its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and 
the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Options could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations.
COBS2.1.1R
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of 
Adams v Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in 
Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474.
I am of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles apply 
to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I do not say this means 
Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken account of both 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Ms case.
I acknowledge that COBS2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) was considered by HHJ Dight in the High 
Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA 
(the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had 
complied with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was 
radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr 
Adams appeal did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight 
had dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new 
case.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged 
by Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Ms complaint.  The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.
I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference 
to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in 
doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This 
is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings 
in Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Options was not obliged  and not able
 to give advice to Mr M on the suitability of its SIPP or the Global Forestry investment 
for him personally. But I am satisfied Options obligations included deciding whether to 
accept particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of 
business from particular businesses.
I acknowledge Options has applied to the Supreme Court for permission to appeal the 
Court of Appeal judgment and the outcome of that application is awaited. However, the 
grounds of appeal are in respect of issues not directly relevant to my determination of this 
case and therefore it is unnecessary to await either the consideration of the application or, 
if permission is granted, the Supreme Court judgment. I am satisfied it is appropriate to 
determine this complaint now.what did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would 
include deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of 
business.
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed 
by the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that 
a particular introducer is appropriate to deal with and a particular investment is an 
appropriate one for a SIPP.
I am satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, 
Options was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of 
business, with the Principles in mind.
the due diligence carried out by Options on ILAWS and what it should have concluded
I have considered what a level of due diligence consistent with Options regulatory 
obligations and the standards of good practice at the time ought to have revealed. And 
what, with those same obligations and standards in mind, Options ought to have 
concluded about ILAWS. And, when doing this, I have taken into account the evidence I 
have mentioned above.
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review Report deals specifically with the 
relationships between SIPP operators and introducers or intermediaries. And it gives 
non exhaustive examples of good practice. In my view, to meet these standards, and its 
regulatory obligations, set by the Principals, Options ought to have identified a significant 
risk of consumer detriment arising from accepting business from ILAWS. And so Options 
ought to have ensured it thought very carefully about accepting applications from ILAWS 
and, therefore, Mr Ms application.
I think it is fair and reasonable to say such consideration should have involved Options 
getting a full understanding of the business model of the introducer, the nature of the 
investments to be made and putting a clear agreement in place between it and the 
introducer and ensuring careful thought was given to the risk generally posed to 
consumers by the introducer.
I have not seen any evidence that Options put into place an agreement with ILAWS that 
set out their respective responsibilities or what the nature of the relationship was to be. I 
have not seen that Options obtained any understanding of the nature of the business that 
ILAWS would introduce or that it established the nature of the firm and what its objectives 
were, the types of clients it would deal with, the levels of business to be introduced or the 
types of investments it would introduce.
So in my view there isnt evidence that Options undertook a reasonable level of due 
diligence with respect to ILAWS and this clearly created the risk that consumer 
detriment would result.
Options has said that ILAWS/Mr Marchi cleared due diligence checks and a World-
check but it has not said what due diligence it carried out. And Options has pointed out 
that it undertook those checks after Mr Ms introduction and investment. Be that as it 
may, a reasonable level of due diligence before accepting Mr Ms introduction and setting up his SIPP would have revealed information that should have given Options 
cause for concern about accepting business from Mr Marchi or ILAWS and led it to 
investigate further.
Mr Anthony Marchi
Mr Marchi was a Director of ILAWS.
The evidence indicates that Mr Marchi was the primary contact with Options in terms of Mr 
Ms introduction. He submitted the SIPP application and witnessed that application. So 
being both a Director of ILAWS and the individual dealing with Options and specifically 
introducing Mr M, in fulfilling its obligations under the Principles Options should have 
carried out sufficient due diligence on him (as well as ILAWS and its other Directors).
If Options had carried out a basic level of due diligence, including checking the (at the 
time) FSA Register, it would have discovered that Mr Marchi was previously a Director of 
CMC. CMC was a mortgage broker, involved in the sale of mortgages and mortgage 
related insurance. In was previously authorised by the FSA to carry out such activities. Mr 
Marchi is listed on the Register as being CMCs CF1 - Director and CF3 - Chief 
Executive. He would therefore have been directly involved in the oversight and operation 
of that business.
The FSA imposed a financial penalty on CMC of £17,500 in 2006 for failing to comply 
with FSA Principles. This is clearly recorded on the Register and would have been 
recorded at the time of Mr Ms introduction.
This was a clear red flag that should have put Options on notice to treat an application 
from Mr Marchi and ILAWS with caution. Options should clearly have queried this and 
thought carefully about accepting introductions from him without further investigation.
The SIPP application
There is a letter from ILAWS dated 6 May 2011 to Options. This said it enclosed 
applications for our first case with you. It was signed by Tony Marchi. An application 
for Mr M was attached.
On the application were sections indicating which pension Transfers were to be made 
to Options. These sections contained the question, Please tick the box to indicate that 
you have received advice on the transfer of this policy. The box was ticked.
There followed the question, If you have ticked above please provide details of who has 
provided you with advice in respect of this transfer. The name Edward Easson was 
noted. Global Forestry was noted as the investment choice for the SIPP. The application 
was signed by Anthony Marchi on 26 April 2011. The Regulating Firm was noted as 
First Complete with the FSA reference number 435779. Mr M signed the application on 
26 April 2011.
I understand that when the application was first submitted, the page which requested 
details of the advice provided was not completed. So it was returned to ILAWS for 
completion. The second time (in June 2011) the relevant page was submitted Mr Easson 
was noted as the financial adviser. The section was still not fully completed so was 
returned to ILAWS again. Mr Easson was also noted as the financial adviser when the 
document was returned.
However, as the investigator said, the signatures on the relevant pages looked markedly 
different.Putting that to one side, Options had been approached by an unregulated introducer, 
ILAWS, and had apparently agreed to accept introductions from it on that basis and on 
the basis that Mr M was not being advised. However, it then received documentation 
which set out that Mr M had received financial advice  from a party that had not 
previously been mentioned.
It is unclear on what basis Options was treating this business  on the basis that Mr M had 
received advice from a regulated party as to the suitability of the SIPP and investment, or 
on the basis that he had not received such advice and was being referred by an 
unregulated introducer. But the information it was supplied with in June and July 2011 did 
indicate that Mr M had received advice.
Rights under a personal pension scheme are a security and relevant investment. Under 
Article 25(1) Regulated Activity Order (RAO), making arrangements for another person to 
buy and sell these types of investments is a regulated activity. And under Article 25(2) 
RAO, making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the arrangements 
buying and selling these types of investments is also a regulated activity.
Given that and the conflicting information it had received as to the nature of Mr Ms 
application (advised or non-advised), Options, acting fairly and reasonably to meet its 
regulatory obligations and good practice at the time, ought to have undertaken a 
reasonable level of due diligence on Mr Easson and the noted business, Easson Financial 
Services. If it had done that, it would have discovered that Mr Easson was an appointed 
representative of First Complete. First Complete was not authorised to give advice on 
pensions and investments and consequently neither was Mr Easson.
If Options had investigated the matter further it is likely that it would then have 
discovered, as it did later, that there were issues with Mr Eassons involvement  
Options has said that his signature was being forged by ILAWS. 
It is clear that there were a number of issues here which individually should have 
caused Options concern as to whether to accept introductions from ILAWS and 
specifically Mr Ms introduction and application.
Other matters
When considering Mr Eassons belated, apparent, involvement, not only should Options 
have recognised the inconsistency between the signatures it had received, but it also 
should
have noted that the contact email for him was  info@ilawsscotland.co.uk  ILAWS contact 
email. Furthermore on the last application pages that Options received, Mr Eassons 
address details had been crossed through and different address details substituted. Those 
address details have been altered to ILAWS business address.
So all contact was being diverted to ILAWS. There could have been an explanation for 
this  but Options did not apparently query it and it is clear that there was an overall 
picture of concern created by the various inconsistencies.
Global Forestry
As I have set out above, I think that if due diligence which was consistent with Options 
regulatory obligations and the standards of good practice at the time had been carried out on ILAWS and EFS, that ought to have led to the conclusion Options should not accept Mr 
Ms application from ILAWS at all. So it doesnt necessarily follow that the due diligence on 
the Green Forestry investment needs to be considered. Having said that, I have not seen 
evidence from Options that it did carry out any due diligence on the investment. I have not 
seen, for example, that Options checked there was a valid lease agreement for the plot or 
checked it was not fraudulent.
But when considering Options due diligence on ILAWS and whether Options should have 
accepted an introduction from it, it is relevant that what was being proposed was the 
investment of most of the pension fund in an unregulated esoteric high risk overseas 
asset. So it was clear that there were significant risks in investing in that kind of product  
of the type that the FSA/FCA had highlighted in its guidance. Options should have borne 
that in mind as another relevant factor when considering the other matters that should 
have caused concern.
In summary:
Options should have been aware that Mr Marchi was previously the Director of a 
regulated business that had a financial penalty imposed by the regulator for 
breaches of the Principles. And it should have been aware of that at the 
beginning of its relationship with him and ILAWS, and before it accepted Mr Ms 
introduction.
Options had received inconsistent information from ILAWS about the nature 
of the application and whether Mr M had received advice.
Options had belatedly been informed that, according to ILAWS, advice had 
been given and a regulated adviser was involved.
There was an inconsistency in the signatures noted for that adviser 
on the documentation.
The adviser noted as providing advice was not authorised to give that advice or 
carry out activities in relation to pensions or investments.
The proposed investment was an unregulated, esoteric, high risk 
overseas investment in which most of Mr Ms pension fund was being 
invested.
After considering these points, I dont regard it as fair and reasonable to conclude that 
Options acted with due skill, care and diligence, or treated Mr M fairly by accepting Mr 
Ms introduction and setting up the SIPP, facilitating the switches to it, or facilitating the 
investment in Green Forestry. Options didnt meet its regulatory obligations or the 
standards of good practice at the time, and it allowed Mr Ms funds to be put at significant 
risk as a result.
Did Options act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Ms instructions?
In my view, for the reasons given, Options simply should have refused to accept Mr 
Ms application. So things should not have got beyond that. Had Options acted in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations and best practice, it is fair and reasonable 
in my view to conclude that it should not have accepted Mr Ms application to open 
a SIPP.
I acknowledge Mr M was asked to sign an Options SIPP application and members declaration(s) and it would have put some reliance on that. The indemnities sought 
to confirm that Mr M wouldnt hold Options responsible for any liability resulting 
from the investment.
However, I dont think this document demonstrates Options acted fairly 
and reasonably when proceeding with Mr Ms instructions.
For the reasons set out, I dont think Options should have accepted the application 
from ILAWS. So, Mr M shouldnt have got to the point of signing declarations as the 
business shouldnt have come about at all. Furthermore, asking Mr M to sign 
declarations absolving Options of all its responsibilities when it ought to have known 
that Mr Ms dealings with ILAWS were putting him at significant risk was not the fair 
and reasonable thing to do.
My remit is, of course, to make a decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. And my view is that its fair and reasonable to say that just asking 
Mr M to sign declarations was not an effective way for Options to meet its regulatory 
obligations to treat him fairly, given the concerns Options ought to have had about his 
introduction.
I am also satisfied that, had Options not accepted Mr Ms application to open a SIPP 
introduced from ILAWS, the arrangement for Mr M would not have come about in the 
first place, and the loss he suffered could have been avoided.
Mr M was contacted by ILAWS and he was not actively looking to do anything with 
his pension. And ILAWS was clearly reliant on Options to facilitate things  but for 
Options acceptance of the application, Mr Ms business would not have been able 
to proceed.
In any event, I think it fair to say Mr M should simply have been unable to complete 
this transaction. I do not think any SIPP operator, acting properly, would have dealt 
with ILAWS.
Options might argue that another SIPP operator would have accepted Mr Ms 
application, had it declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say 
that Options should not compensate Mr M for his loss on the basis of 
speculation that another SIPP operator would have made the same mistakes 
as Ive found it did.
I think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with its 
regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted the 
application from Caledonian, or would have terminated the transaction before completion.
For all the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr M 
actions mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of Options failings. In 
the circumstances, I am satisfied that Options should not have asked him to sign 
the declarations at all. For the reasons I have set out, I am satisfied that the 
application should never have been accepted in the first place.
Putting things right
Bearing in mind and that I have not received any further submissions since the issue of my 
provisional decison, having reviewed the complaint, I would confirm that my decision 
remains that the complaint should be upheld. I am satisfied that Options failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and 
industry best practice at the relevant time have led to Mr M suffering a 
significant loss to his pension. And, my aim is therefore to return Mr M to the 
pension position he would now be in but for Options failings.
Options should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position 
to the position Mr M would be in if he had not transferred from his existing 
pension. In summary, Options should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr M has suffered as a result of making the switch.
2. Take ownership of the Global Forestry investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ms pension. If that is not 
possible pay compensation for the loss to Mr M direct. In either case 
the payment should take into account necessary adjustments set 
out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above 
in further detail below:
1 Calculate the loss Mr M has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Options should work out the likely value of Mr Ms pension as at 
the date of my final decision, had he left it where it was instead of switching 
to the SIPP.
Options should ask Mr Ms former pension provider to calculate the current 
notional transfer value(s) had he not switched his pension. If there are any 
difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return index should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to 
be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if 
suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP 
at the date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr M has suffered. The 
Global Forestry investment should be assumed to have no value.
2 Take ownership of the Global Forestry investment
If Options is unable to take ownership of the Global Forestry investment it should remain 
in the SIPP. I think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant 
realisable value in the future. However, it would not be fair for Mr M to have any ongoing 
fees to pay in relation to the SIPP. So, in the event Options is unable to take ownership of 
the Global Forestry investment (and it cant otherwise be removed from the SIPP), it 
should waive any fees associated with the SIPP, until such a time as the SIPP can be 
closed.
3 Pay compensation to Mr M for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr M has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the 
compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow 
for the income tax relief Mr M could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated 
using Mr Ms marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr M may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr M direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mr M should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Ms marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr M is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction 
in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 
75% of the total amount.
4 Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr M has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of his pension 
benefits. This is money Mr M cannot afford to lose and its loss has undoubtedly caused 
him distress. I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that.
Interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Options 
receives notification of Mr Ms acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days. If 
Options considers that it is legally required to deduct income tax from the interest, it must 
send a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr M can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and order that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
David Bird
Ombudsman