DRN-2921957
The complaint
X and Mr I complain about the service and settlement they received after making a claim on 
their motor insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc. X is the main policyholder and Mr I 
is a named driver on the policy. For ease of reading, Ill refer to both as X in this complaint. 
Reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
X was involved in a road traffic accident they didnt think was their fault. They made a claim 
on their motor insurance policy with AXA in March 2020.
AXA agreed to settle the claim. It thought Xs vehicle couldnt be repaired and deemed it a 
total loss. It made an offer to X to settle their claim. But X rejected that offer three times - 
they didnt think it was a fair offer. They said the offer wasnt enough to allow them to 
purchase a replacement. AXA made another offer of £5,000 to settle Xs claim. X accepted 
this offer and payment was raised. But X remained unhappy with the offer and still didnt 
think it was enough.
X complained to AXA. They said AXA hadnt offered a good service throughout the claim. 
They said the offers it made to settle their claim were unfair. X also said they werent happy 
they hadnt received all their excess back. They wanted documents from AXA to help them 
pursue the excess from the third party and they were unhappy AXA didnt provide them. X 
also wasnt happy AXA tried to end the hire car it provided them. X said they needed the car 
during the pandemic as a family member was pregnant and needed to go to appointments.
AXA looked into Xs complaint and offered a total of £650 compensation. It said it agreed to 
extend the hire car for longer than the policy required it to. And it also said the offer it made 
to settle the claim was fair and wasnt willing to change it.
X remained unhappy and brought their complaint to us. They didnt think the offer was fair. 
And they said in a call with AXA they were told theyd be given £1,000 compensation. They 
were then disappointed to find that offer had halved to £500. X thinks AXA should honour its 
offer of £1,000 compensation  taking the total offered to £1,150. X also said £50 of the 
compensation remains unpaid.
One of our investigators looked into Xs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought AXA had made errors along the way but thought the offer it made to settle Xs claim 
was fair. She thought taking into account the extended hire car, the £650 offer of 
compensation was fair.
X remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said they were asked to 
provide evidence of what they thought their car was worth. They said they provided this and 
feel it was ignored. And they said our investigator didnt listen to the call where AXA said 
theyd offer £1,000 compensation and thinks that should be honoured. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Xs complaint. I understand this wont be the answer X 
was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning below. To be clear, my decision doesnt mean I 
think AXA did nothing wrong, but that Im satisfied what it did to put things right for X was 
fair.
Xs policy says the most AXA will pay on any claim is the market value of Xs car. And much 
of this dispute centres around that. X has said it provided a number of adverts to AXA to 
evidence the market value of their car. And theyve said they dont think AXA, or indeed we, 
have taken those adverts into account. AXA maintains the offer of £5,000 is fair.
Determining the market value of a vehicle isnt an exact science. And its not for me, or 
anyone at this service to value Xs car. What I have to determine is whether or not AXAs 
offer to settle their claim is fair.
Xs policy defines market value as the cost of replacing their car with another of the same 
make and model and of a similar age, mileage and condition at the time of the accident or 
loss.
We often find trade guides to be the most persuasive evidence when looking at the value of 
vehicles. And using two of these guides - CAP and Glasss  Xs car was valued at £3,800 
and £3,670 respectively. AXAs final offer of £5,000 is significantly higher than both these 
guides. But Im aware its still short of the adverts X presented. We often dont find adverts 
as persuasive as the trade guides. This is because the trade guides use nationwide data and 
take into account all the factors AXA said it considers when determining the market value of 
a car. Adverts are confined to the specific car they are advertising, and changes in age and 
mileage can change the value of a car, sometimes significantly.
In light of all the evidence, Im satisfied AXAs final offer of £5,000 takes into consideration 
the evidence provided by X and the trade guides and ultimately is a fair and reasonable offer 
made in line with the terms and conditions of Xs policy. 
Im aware AXA didnt initially make this offer, and X questioned AXAs offer a number of 
times before this offer was made. But Ill consider the trouble and upset caused as a whole  
which will include this aspect.
I understand X is unhappy AXA tried to take away the hire car it provided throughout the 
claim. And I can understand why. While the claim was progressing, the country was in a 
national lockdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic. And X has told us a member of their 
family was pregnant and needed to use the car to attend appointments while shielding from 
the public.
Xs policy only provided a hire car in the event of a total loss for 14 days. But as well as 
looking at what the policy says, I need to be satisfied AXA treated X fairly in all the 
circumstances. I can see ultimately AXA extended the hire car until X purchased another car 
in June. This means AXA provided the hire car for a period around three months as opposed 
to the 14 days the policy provided cover for. In the circumstances Im satisfied this was fair.
I understand too that X is unhappy theyre yet to have their full excess returned. They feel 
they should have this back as the incident wasnt their fault. AXA agrees it wasnt their fault, 
but the third-party insurer doesnt and is disputing liability on behalf of their insured. The 
excess is the first part of any claim X has to pay, and strictly speaking its not something 
theyre entitled to get back from AXA. But its common practice for an insurer to include the policyholders excess in the amount they try to recover from the third partys insurer and then 
return it to the policyholder. I can see AXA are doing this. And I can see AXA has already 
returned half the excess, which isnt something it needs to do  but Im satisfied its fair it 
does in the circumstances. And while AXA is pursuing the third-party insurer for its outlay - 
including Xs excess  I think its reasonable it says it cant provide X the documentation it 
needs to pursue their excess themselves as its something already being pursued.
Throughout the claim AXA hasnt provided the best service, and its acknowledged that by 
offering £650 total in compensation. And I also have to consider it did provide a courtesy car 
for significantly longer than the policy provided provision for. I understand X doesnt think this 
is enough. And I understand particularly that theyre unhappy as theyve said AXA offered 
£1,000 at one point, to later half it to £500.
Like our investigator, I havent been able to listen to that call. But I dont feel I need to. Even 
if AXA did say it would offer £1,000 compensation (which it is saying it didnt say), this isnt 
something it needs to honour if it was made in error. I have to look at what I consider to be 
fair compensation for the whole complaint  and I dont consider what was or wasnt said on 
this one call to be pivotal to that. Had AXA said it would offer £500 in that call  Id be 
satisfied that offer was fair. Had AXA said it would offer £1,000 on that call, then reduced its 
offer to £500  I appreciate it would add to the frustration felt by X but Id still be satisfied that 
offer was fair.
Overall, Im satisfied that £650 compensation is fair and reasonable when taking everything 
into account. So, Im not requiring AXA to increase its offer. However, Im aware X has said 
£50 remains unpaid. If this is still the case, AXA should pay X this £50. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman