DRN-3206412
The complaint
Mrs B has complained through her claims management company (CMC) about The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) allowing a transfer of her pension fund 
to what she believes was an unregulated and fraudulent scheme.
What happened
In September 2015 Mrs B requested a transfer from her personal pension fund held with 
Prudential to a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pensions Scheme (QROPS) registered in 
Malta.
The CMC has told us that at the time the transfer was requested Mrs B was 54 years of age. 
She wasnt receiving a high income and wasnt a high net worth client or a sophisticated 
investor. It has explained she was cold called by an unregulated third party who told her 
pension fund with Prudential was underperforming and she could make more growth if she 
transferred it to the QROPS which the third party was recommending. It has said that Mrs B 
didnt know the scheme being recommended wasnt a UK scheme and had she known this 
she wouldnt have agreed to transfer. To date Mrs B hasnt received any valuations for the 
scheme and had been unable to contact it. The CMC has suggested that Mrs B has been 
the subject of some sort of pension fraud.
The transfer of Mrs Bs pension fund (around £40,000) was completed in January 2016.
The CMC has said Prudential should have seen that the transfer was unsuitable for Mrs B 
based on the scheme being a QROPS and it didnt think Prudential carried out the 
necessary due diligence when authorising the transfer.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. She 
was satisfied that Prudential had carried out all of the checks it was required to before 
authorising the transfer. She didnt think there was anything in Mrs Bs circumstances 
regarding the request to transfer that should have caused Prudential to suspect a pension 
scam was underway. She saw Prudential had sent Mrs B the necessary warning insert to 
raise her awareness to potential pension fraud (the Scorpion insert). And she 
acknowledged that the terms of Mrs Bs pension scheme with Prudential confirmed she had 
a contractual right to transfer providing the receiving scheme met all the stated 
requirements.
On behalf of Mrs B the CMC disagreed with the assessment and reiterated why it thought 
Prudential hadnt carried out the necessary checks. It also stated that as the transfer was 
advised by an unregulated business Prudential, at the very least, should have tried to make 
Mrs B fully aware of the risks involved.
I issued my provisional findings in November 2021 where I set out why I was of the view the 
complaint should not be upheld. An extract is below and forms part of this final decision:
It is important to first point out that Prudential didnt give Mrs B advice in relation to the 
transfer of her pension to the QROPS. As the administrator of the scheme this wasnt its 
role. Therefore, while I appreciate the points the CMC has made in relation to the suitability 
of transferring into the QROPS, this was the responsibility of whichever party gave Mrs B 
advice (if indeed any advice was given).
Relevant guidance
The Pension Regulators (TPR) Scorpion Guidance:
At the time of Mrs Bs transfer, pension scams had become quite prevalent due to the recent 
pension reforms which allowed for greater flexibility and access to pension funds. In 
response to this The Pensions Regulator (TPR), as well as other industry bodies including 
the Financial Services Authority (FSA) (now the Financial Conduct Authority, the FCA), 
acted to educate and alert retirement savers, pension administrators and trustees to the 
risks involved in relation to their pensions. A campaign was launched, known as the 
scorpion campaign and TPR first released guidance on this issue (known as the scorpion 
guidance) on 14 February 2013 (this was subsequently updated several times over the next 
few years).
Briefly, the scorpion campaign involved providing an action pack that highlighted the 
warning signs present in a number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, 
money being transferred overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about 
investments and pressure to complete a transfer quickly. It suggested transferring schemes 
should look out for these issues, as well as receiving occupational schemes that were 
newly registered or were suddenly involved in multiple transfer requests.
The action pack provided a checklist schemes could use which suggested asking the 
member for copies of promotional materials, emails or letters about the scheme and for 
further details about how they became aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been 
described to them. If those enquiries established the member had been advised, it went on 
to suggest checking whether the adviser had been registered with the FSA. Where 
transferring schemes had concerns, they were encouraged to consider delaying the transfer 
and to seek legal advice.
The scorpion campaign also included:
An insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was requested. The insert warns 
about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, cold calling, being put under 
pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences of accessing pensions early.
A longer insert which gives more information, including real life examples, about 
pension liberation. This was to be used in order to help raise awareness about 
pension liberation amongst pension scheme members.
The Pension Scams Industry Group (PSIG) Code of Good Practice:
The version of the scorpion action pack from the time of Mrs Bs transfer also referred to a 
Code of Good Practice which had been developed by the Pension Liberation Industry Group 
(PLIG), subsequently renamed Pension Scams Industry Group (PSIG). This became 
effective from 16 March 2015 and set an industry standard for dealing with pension transfer 
requests from members to a UK registered pension scheme or a QROPS.
The Code was written by a group made up of stakeholders including trustee administrators, 
legal advisers and insurers and was reviewed by a wide group of industry bodies and 
organisations to ensure broad acceptance and encourage widespread adoption of its 
principles. It aimed to help trustees/providers ensure only a valid transfer was made as well as helping to put the member in a position to make an informed choice in relation to a valid 
transfer where there were suspicious circumstances. Essentially the code set out a structure 
for the due diligence process to be carried out by trustees and administrators along with 
sample questions to ask the member throughout the transfer process to ensure the transfer 
was a valid one.
In my view, the scorpion guidance and the PSIG code worked together. It wasnt a case of 
administrators following one or the other. TPR expected all trustees and administrators to 
follow the Scorpion guidance. It was also endorsed by FSA, which meant FSA-regulated 
firms ought to have given it similar attention as they would to other guidance issued by FSA. 
Furthermore, the scorpion insert also referred to the PSIG Code of Good Practice, which 
was welcomed by TPR, so while there is no explicit instruction as such to use the PSIG 
code I think it would have been good industry practice to do so.
I therefore consider its fair and reasonable for Prudential to have followed both these 
guidance documents as they represented good industry practice for transferring personal 
pension schemes.
Did Prudential follow the guidance outlined above?
Prudential has confirmed, and I have seen, that it sent Mrs B the scorpion scams insert in 
her transfer pack, as it was required to do. Similar to the action pack mentioned above sent 
to administrators, the insert for members clearly set out what members wanting to transfer 
their pension had to look out for:
Claims a pension could be accessed before the age of 55;
Being approached out of the blue over the phone via text message or in person.
Being enticed with upfront cash.
Was she offered a free pension review or was she lured with so called one off 
 investment opportunities.
Convincing marketing materials that promise returns of over 8% on the investment.
Paperwork delivered to the door by courier that requires immediate signature.
Overseas transfers of the funds.
A proposal to put the money in a single investment.
It also stated that the member should always check the facts and never be    
 pressured into or rushed into making a decision.
Mrs B signed and dated this insert and returned it to Prudential thereby confirming that she 
had read and understood it. I am satisfied this insert contained clear and accurate 
information about potential scams and I am also satisfied Prudential sent the insert with 
enough time for Mrs B to raise any concerns with Prudential that she may have had from 
reading it before confirming the pension transfer.
The CMC has said Mrs B didnt understand the scorpion insert but I think this was something 
for Mrs B to have mentioned if Prudential was to help her any further. I have also considered 
that the insert was prepared by the Regulator in conjunction with other industry groups 
precisely with individuals such as Mrs B as its target audience, so I think its likely it was 
something Mrs B could have understood without any problems.
As well as sending the scorpion insert Prudential also confirmed with HMRC that the 
QROPS met the requirements to be a QROPS under section 169(2) of the Finance Act 
2004.
However, Prudential has confirmed to me that it didnt follow or employ the PSIG code. It didnt make any specific enquiries of Mrs B to find out more about the transfer. Instead, it 
relied on the warnings provided in the scorpion factsheet. In my view, this was a failing. For 
the reasons explained above, the PSIG code and the scorpion guidance shouldve been 
followed together. The Code would have assisted Prudential in how to go about checking 
whether Mrs B was at risk of a scam, which is what the Scorpion guidance was strongly 
encouraging it to do. This would have been good practice and in line with FCA Principles to 
pay due regard to the interests of customers and treat them fairly. Furthermore, the fact Mrs 
B was transferring her pension overseas should have raised a red flag for Prudential, 
especially as Mrs B wasnt moving abroad herself.
Would this have made a difference
However, despite this failing, if Prudential had done all it was required to do I think Mrs B 
would not have taken any different action. I think it more likely than not she would still have 
insisted the transfer to the QROPS go ahead.
As part of our investigation, we asked to speak directly to Mrs B, to get a sense of what she 
was thinking at the time of requesting the transfer, what she thought about the transfer and 
to discuss the events leading up to the transfer. Each time we called her she told us she 
wasnt available to talk. We also emailed her with the questions but to date she has not 
responded. Without her first-hand thoughts and comments about the whole transfer process 
and clarity of what she actually understood about it at the time, I can only base my 
conclusions on the facts in front of me. And they are that Mrs B received and signed the 
scorpion guidance insert confirming she had read and understood it. An overseas transfer 
was highlighted in this insert as being a warning sign of a potential scam, but this didnt raise 
any concerns for Mrs B. And she signed all the transfer forms which all clearly set out the 
address of the scheme being in Malta.
Therefore, in light of this information, and without being able to speak with Mrs B I am not 
persuaded that she didnt know the scheme to which she was transferring her pension was 
abroad and I am not persuaded that this was something she was unhappy with. It also
follows that had Prudential followed the PSIG code and asked Mrs B directly about the 
transfer abroad, as it would have been directed to do, I dont think it would have led to a 
different outcome. In other words, I think its likely Mrs B would have still gone ahead with 
the transfer to the QROPS because she had all the details in front of her to make her aware 
the transfer was overseas.
Ive noted that the scheme appears to still be registered with HMRC and the CMC has 
confirmed it hasnt contacted the QROPS or the Maltese regulators to find out anything 
further about the scheme. So there is no direct evidence that fraudulent activity was, or has 
ever been, present. As well as this, it may be the case that Mrs B was advised to place 
unsuitable investments within the QROPS, but as I mentioned at the beginning Prudentials 
role wasnt to ensure the suitability of those investments.
Other matters
The CMC has stated that as the third party which contacted Mrs B initially was not regulated 
this should have alerted Prudential to a potential scam/fraudulent activity. Its true the 
Scorpion guidance action pack suggested a scheme check whether an adviser was 
registered with the FCA. Thats essentially because if advice was being given on the transfer 
of a personal pension to a QROPS, that would have been a regulated activity  and its an 
offence under the Financial Services and Markets Act for an unregulated adviser to give 
such advice to a customer in the UK.
However, there was no requirement for a third party administering any QROPs involved in 
the transfer to be registered. (Only the activity of administering a personal pension scheme in the UK was regulated by the FCA.) So without the additional suggestion of advice being 
given to Mrs B from the firm involved in her application, there was nothing to have alerted 
Prudential to anything underhand going on.
Overall, it is clear that at the time Mrs B requested the transfer of her pension there was 
detailed and comprehensive guidance setting out what Prudential needed to do to check the 
transfer request was to a legitimate scheme and in Mrs Bs best interests. As I have 
explained above, while Prudential followed the scorpion guidance to a degree, by its own 
admission it didnt follow the PSIG Code of Good Practice which it was also required to do to 
ascertain whether Mrs B fully understood the implications of transferring her pension.
However, based on the information available to me, I think it likely that had Prudential done 
what the Code outlined  contact her to clarify the transfer details and confirm she was still 
happy to proceed with the transfer - it would have not changed Mrs Bs actions.
Prudential accepted my provisional findings but provided no further comments. 
The CMC on Mrs Bs behalf didnt respond by the required deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments for me to consider I have no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings.
In summary, while Prudential didnt follow all the guidance and good practice I think it should 
have at the time of the transfer request, had it done so I dont think this would have changed 
Mrs Bs actions, for the reasons already set out above and in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman