DRN-3727890
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited (Aviva) wont transfer his interest in 
a lifetime mortgage to his ex-wife without him getting independent legal advice.
What happened
Mr H has a lifetime mortgage with his ex-wife (who Ill refer to as Mrs H). After his divorce 
Mr H asked Aviva to release him from the mortgage and transfer it into Mrs Hs sole name.
Aviva said it would only do this if Mr H got independent legal advice first. However, Mr H 
says he only has a limited income and savings, so he cant afford to get expensive legal 
advice. He doesnt think legal advice is necessary as he says he is happy to be released 
from the mortgage without requiring any financial settlement. Mr H has told us hes happy to 
sign documentation to this effect.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He said he didnt think Aviva had done anything 
wrong. Aviva told him that in order to complete Mr Hs transfer request it needs to know that 
Mr H understands the legal implications of the transfer. Our investigator said he understood 
this even though Mr H has said that he cant afford legal advice. He said hed expect a party 
being removed from a mortgage to have sought professional advice, and he understood why 
Aviva was keen to ensure that Mr H didnt make a claim against it in the future  perhaps by 
saying that hed acquired a greater interest in the mortgaged property since 2016. 
After our investigator sent Mr H his view on the complaint, Aviva said it would be happy to 
release Mr H from the mortgage if:
it is confirmed that the 2016 declaration of trust agreed between Mr H and Mrs H 
remains. That trust was put in place in 2016 because Mr and Mrs H were married at 
the time, and both lived in the mortgaged property. The trust document said that Mr H 
had a 1% interest in the mortgaged property. Aviva wants to see that Mr H currently 
holds no more than a 1% interest in the mortgaged property before actioning Mr Hs 
transfer request.
Mr H signs a letter from his Mrs Hs solicitor setting out the legal position regarding 
the transfer. Mr H would sign the letter to show that he understands the content of 
the letter and doesnt wish to take independent legal advice event though the solicitor 
strongly recommends he does so.
Mrs H pays Mr H money to transfer the 1% interest in the mortgage to her.
Mr H said such a solution wasnt acceptable to him. He wants the transfer to go ahead 
without legal advice or any of the above conditions needing to be met.
Mr H remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. Mr H made a number of points that Ive considered below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as out investigator. Ill explain why.
Ill begin by saying that I appreciate Mr Hs financial position. Im sorry to hear that he cant 
afford independent legal advice in connection with this matter and understand that he wants 
to transfer his interest in the mortgage property to Mrs H without it. I have no doubt from 
what he has told us that he thinks that Aviva has been obstructive and acted unfairly towards 
him.
However, I can also understand why Aviva wanted to ensure that Mr H made a fully informed 
decision before his interest in the property was transferred to Mrs H. So I cant say Aviva 
acted unreasonably when it told him he needed to get independent legal advice before it 
would proceed with the transfer.
Recently Aviva suggested the proposal set out above. That proposal would enable the 
transfer to be made without Mr H getting independent legal advice. 
Mr H has rejected that offer. Mr H said it was totally unacceptable as it transfers the cost of 
the legal advice on to Mrs H and requires her to pay him for the 1% of the mortgaged 
property. Mr H says that if that happened their amicable divorce would be considered a 
hostile situation with serious implications for him and Mrs H. He thinks this could have an 
impact on his accommodation.
Mr H also feels that Aviva has ignored what the court said in relation to his divorce. He says 
his divorce settlement states that any Property which, or an interest in which, is devised or 
bequeathed to the former Spouse shall pass as if the former Spouse has died on the date on 
which the marriage is dissolved. Mr H thinks this indicates that the mortgaged property 
reverts to Mrs H on their divorce as if he has died. 
I appreciate Mr Hs position but I think there are legal issues that might not have fully 
considered in this case. For example, I can see that the wording set out above from Mr and 
Mrs Hs 2019 divorce settlement was included in a section about how divorce affects 
inheritances under a will. Its not clear to me that the wording extends to other matters such 
as the transfer of Mr Hs interest in the mortgaged property. I also think there are other legal 
issues relevant to Mr Hs circumstances that he might want to think about - for example 
whether Mr Hs interest in the mortgaged property might have increased from 1% as a result 
of money he might have contributed towards the mortgaged property while he was living in it, 
and who will pay money to make any contract to transfer the 1% interest legally binding. In 
the circumstances, I can understand why Aviva was concerned that Mr H hadnt sought legal 
advice in connection with the transfer, and why it has recently made the proposal set out 
above.
It follows that while Im very sorry to hear about Mr Hs financial constraints, and the 
frustration he feels towards Aviva, I cant say that Aviva has acted unreasonably in this case. 
So I dont uphold this complaint. I think Avivas recent proposal is a fair and reasonable 
solution to allow for the transfer without Mr H getting independent legal advice. 
For completeness I think its worth me saying here that its open to Mr H to get advice from 
Citizens Advice or a free legal advice centre if he does change his mind about getting 
advice in relation to the transfer.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman