DRN-4002856
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money he lost when 
he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr S was contacted on social media by someone who posted about 
cryptocurrency trading. He was already trading, and says he was looking out for investment 
opportunities. He began corresponding with the individual, who persuaded him to invest on a 
trading platform  U. Unfortunately, it appears this was a fraudulent platform.
Mr S made a number of payments to U via a cryptocurrency wallet he held. It seems he was 
initially able to make a (fairly substantial) withdrawal from the platform. But he says he 
realised it was a scam when he asked to make another withdrawal and was told he would 
need to pay for a tax certificate. When he logged on to U a few days later, he saw his trading 
account balance  previously showing substantial profits  was £0.00
When Mr S reported the issue to Barclays, he initially told it he hadnt authorised the 
payments. He later admitted he did, due to being tricked by the scam. He complained to 
Barclays that it hadnt done enough to protect him. When it wouldnt refund him, he referred 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They noted Barclays had called Mr S to discuss 
the first scam payment. And he had maintained no other party was involved, and that he was 
acting alone. Based on the responses given, the investigator wasnt persuaded Barclays 
missed an opportunity to uncover the scam.  
Mr S has appealed the investigators view. He says the highest scam payment (for around 
£10,000) should have flagged as suspicious. And that he hadnt been given a cover story of 
what to tell the bank if any payments were flagged. So Barclays should have uncovered the 
scam, and prevented further losses, at this point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Its now agreed that Mr S authorised the scam payments. In line with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, banks are expected to execute authorised payment instructions without 
undue delay. So the starting position is that Mr S, rather than Barclays, is liable for these 
payments.
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Barclays to take 
additional steps before processing a payment  in response to identifying a fraud risk. That 
might be appropriate when a payment is significantly unusual or uncharacteristic compared 
to the normal use of the account. 
Im conscious that, prior to this scam, Mr S had been using his Barclays account to make 
cryptocurrency payments. That included payments of a similar size to the first couple of 
scam payments. The cryptocurrency wallet he sent the scam payments to was also an 
established payee on his account.  
Despite that, Barclays did in fact flag the first scam payment as suspicious  and spoke to 
Mr S about it. During the call, Barclays picked up that he had been paying the wallet for a 
few months, which he confirmed was correct. It asked if he was managing the funds himself, 
or whether anyone was helping. It later asked again whether there was any third-party 
involvement. At both points, Mr S maintained he was acting alone. 
I dont think Mr S answered Barclays honesty. Based on what he has told us, and the 
records he has provided of his contact with the scammer, he wasnt acting alone; he was 
acting on third-party advice. Barclays wasnt told that, despite asking several times. And the 
fact he had been making cryptocurrency payments to various merchants for several months 
will have made his explanation seem more plausible. 
Mr S says he wasnt coached by the scammer on what to say. Regardless of his reasons for 
denying third-party involvement, his responses made it less obvious to Barclays that he was 
at risk. Overall, I dont think Barclays had cause to suspect Mr S was falling victim to a scam. 
Based on the responses he gave, I think it was reasonable to process the payment in line 
with his authorised instructions.
Mr S thinks the third scam payment, for around £10,000, ought to have been flagged as 
suspicious. But it was going to an established payee who had been paid over a period of 
months. And Barclays had spoken to Mr S about a payment to that recipient just a few 
weeks prior. So I can see why it didnt view the payment as suspicious. 
However, it was also significantly more than any prior payments Mr S had made, either to 
cryptocurrency merchants or otherwise. So I do think there is a case for arguing that 
Barclays should have intervened again. But even if it had done so, Im not persuaded it 
would have succeeded in uncovering the scam. As he hadnt disclosed the role of the third 
party earlier, I cant see why he would have done at this point either. 
As the investigator has pointed out, Mr S had also withdrawn a significant amount from the 
scam platform by this point  which would likely have reinforced his belief it was legitimate. I 
think that would have made it harder for Barclays to have dissuaded him from proceeding. 
I also agree with the investigator that Barclays didnt miss an opportunity to recover the loss. 
The merchant paid provided the expected service by loading the funds to his wallet in line 
with his authorised requests. It later sent them on in line with his instructions (otherwise, the 
fraudulent loss would not have been incurred). So I cant see how Barclays could have 
successfully charged back the card payments or recalled the faster payments. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman