DRN-2748436
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about the advice fees theyve been charged by Wren Sterling 
Financial Planning Limited (Wren Sterling) following advice they were given in 2018 but 
decided not to take up.
What happened
In 2018 Mr and Mrs D met with Wren Sterling and reviewed their investments which included 
their personal and occupational pensions. Although Mr and Mrs D said they only wished to 
review Mrs Ds occupational pension Scheme (OPS) and whether it was in her interests to 
transfer the benefits. However, a number of recommendations were made to transfer some 
investments to new providers and to make contributions to ISAs and pension plans in order 
to maximise investment opportunities within the tax year. 
Following the meeting Wren Sterling began to collate the information it required to provide its 
recommendations. Unfortunately, one of Mrs Ds pensions was unable to provide the 
necessary information and this wasnt resolved until May 2018. So by June 2018 Wren 
Sterling contacted Mr and Mrs D to confirm that it was ready to present its recommendations 
and put forward any applications. This took place on 2 July but on 5 July 2018 Mrs D asked 
Wren Sterling put a hold on processing the recommendations as Mr D had found a number 
of errors in the financial report. 
On 15 July 2018 Mr and Mrs D advised Wren Sterling that it should not continue with the 
applications because, following some errors in the suitability report, they had lost confidence 
in Wren Sterling and were unwilling to pay such significant fees for the advice theyd been 
given. They further explained that the only time they were aware of Wren Sterlings fees was 
when they agreed to go ahead with the recommendations. They felt that the client 
agreement they signed only set out a fee of £1,000 with no specific reference to the fees 
charged if a client decided not to go ahead with the recommendation. 
 
Wren Sterling apologised for the errors in the paperwork but explained that, as it had 
provided recommendations which had incurred costs  and Mr and Mrs D had agreed to the 
recommendations  its advice fees would still be liable. 
Mr and Mrs D continued in discussions with Wren Sterling and subsequently the advice fees 
were reduced to a figure of £5,000 which Wren Sterling thought was a fair compromise in the 
situation, having noted the errors it had made in the report. But Mr and Mrs D didnt agree 
with the outcome and brought their complaint to us where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators  who said it shouldnt be upheld. 
She concluded that Wren Sterlings client agreement of 18 February 2018  which 
Mr and Mrs D signed, was clear in setting out the charges which would be applied. She also 
thought this fee was consistent with what was actually requested following the 
recommendations. She noted that there were some errors in the financial planning report but 
didnt think this automatically meant no fee was due for the work Wren Sterling had carried 
out. She thought its offer of a reduction in its fees was fair and reasonable.
She also found that Wren Sterlings term of business document did allow for the cancellation 
of its services but that you will be liable to pay any charges relating to ongoing services 
provided up to the date of cancellation. So she thought that although Mr and Mrs D were 
entitled to cancel the applications they made within the cooling off period or indeed at any 
time  they were liable to pay the advice fees and in this case she thought the fees being 
requested were reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They made the following points in response:
We hadnt made any reference to Wren Sterlings breach of the regulations relating 
to answering a complaint.
Wren Sterlings client agreement set out that a minimum £1,000 fee applied to its 
financial planning service with no clarity of charges in excess of this amount. The 
agreement only talked about money invested and made no allowance for a situation 
where a client didnt proceed only that a fee should be agreed in advance. They 
thought the investigator had given Wren Sterling a precedent to charge whatever 
fees they wished. 
They had made Wren Sterling aware that their investments had been reviewed just 
six months earlier  so the scope of the advice was simply to investigate the 
possibility of Mrs D transferring her OPS benefits.
They were concerned that the advice to transfer their ISAs, after just six months, and 
without any expression of dissatisfaction from them, could be viewed as churning.
Despite the fact they had cancelled during the cooling off period, the same charges 
applied as if they had gone ahead with all the recommendations.
The invoices Wren Sterling had issued were misleading and inconsistent sometimes 
including VAT and on other occasions not. 
They didnt receive the letter of 12 June 2018 and the financial planning report dated 
1 June wasnt issued to them until 2 July 2018. And they hadnt received an earlier 
estimation of the fees involved.
The errors in the report, which included changing Mrs Ds first name entirely, was 
sufficient for them to lose confidence in Wren Sterlings ability to provide advice. 
The advice around Mrs Ds OPS wasnt given until she asked for it  and the verbal 
recommendation she was given was simply to leave alone. This couldnt be seen as 
advice.   
The investigator provided the following additional response:
Complaint handing wasnt an activity we could consider  it was a matter for the 
regulator. However, although the investigator recognised a final response letter 
hadnt been provided within the eight week period allowed, she didnt think this 
automatically meant a reduction in the fee was due. 
The client agreement of 18 February 2018 did set out Wren Sterlings fee structure 
and that was also consistent with what it eventually charged Mr and Mrs D. So she 
didnt think the fees werent made clear before Wren Sterling provided advice.
She was satisfied that the letter of 12 June 2018 had been sent but accepted it may 
not have been received. However, she thought the signed client agreement 
demonstrated the fee structure and that the fees quoted werent misleading or unfair.
She thought Wren Sterling needed to complete a complete financial review of all of 
Mr and Mrs Ds investments in order to give advice on Mrs Ds OPS. So she didnt 
think the work had been carried out unnecessarily.
The cooling off period referred to was for the products that had been applied for not 
the advisory service. Once such a service had been provided it couldnt then be 
cancelled, and Mr and Mrs D had accepted that the client agreement stated that a 
£1,000 minimum fee would apply in such circumstances but can be higher depending on circumstances and the specific work undertaken. The investigator 
thought that Mr and Mrs D had been made aware that the work involved would lead 
to a charge of more than £1,000.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for their complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know this 
outcome will disappoint Mr and Mrs D and Ive seen the strength of their feelings over this 
matter  so Ill explain my reasons. 
Although Mr and Mrs D met with Wren Sterling on 2 July 2018 and initially agreed to go 
ahead with its recommendations and submit applications, they then decided not to go ahead. 
So theres no reason for me to consider the suitability of the advice Wren Sterling gave here 
as no recommendations were taken up. Although I note that Mr and Mrs D have said that 
they didnt require a review of their investments having undergone a similar review barely six 
months previously with another adviser from their bank, so I have taken that into account.
Therefore the issue I do have to consider is whether Mr and Mrs D were made aware of the 
fees that they were charged for Wren Sterlings advice and also whether the charge that 
Wren Sterling has subsequently applied  and requested, is fair and reasonable.
Were Mr and Mrs D made aware of the fees involved here?
Theres no dispute here that both parties met on two occasions to discuss matters. The first 
occasion was on 18 February 2018 when Wren Sterlings adviser gathered information about 
Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances and discussed their objectives. At the same time Wren 
Sterling issued a copy of its client agreement  which was signed by Mr and Mrs D on the 
same date, and which set out the parameters for paying for our service. It noted Wren 
Sterlings fee structure and described its initial fees as covering not only the time and 
professional advice of your adviser, but also the teams that sit behind our advisers. It then 
set out the basis of its financial planning service which was designed to assess a clients 
needs and circumstances before making (and implementing) its recommendations. A 
minimum fee of £1,000 applied to this service.
Thereafter the agreement set out the charges for lump sum investment: new clients and 
regular contributions investing, which would have applied to Mr and Mrs D if they accepted 
the recommendations which ultimately were a combination of lump sum and regular 
contribution investments. The agreement also set out what would happen for not 
implementing the recommendations from your financial planning report, and the costs for 
ongoing advice  which was typically 1% of the total funds under advice.
So I think it was clear that the client agreement, while unable to provide the exact charges 
involved, did make it clear that:
Fees would be charged for any advisory work completed for Mr and Mrs D.
There was an approximate cost of the fees when investing lump sums, which would 
have been possible to confirm when it was clear which investments were being 
recommended to be transferred or switched as well as making new single contributions into ISAs and pensions. Examples of the fees charged were given for 
investments of £50,000, £300,000, and £600,000.
There would be charges levied for recommendations not resulting in a product or 
investment being implementedThere is a minimum fee of £1,000 but fees can be 
higher depending on circumstances and the specific work undertaken.
So Im satisfied that Wren Sterling did make Mr and Mrs D aware of the initial and ongoing 
charges that might be applied if they continued with an advisory agreement. And I think it 
was clear that if Wren Sterling carried out the work required in order to get to the stage of 
making recommendations fees would still apply  even if Mr and Mrs D decided not to go 
ahead with those recommendations. So I dont think its reasonable for Mr and Mrs D to 
presume that it shouldnt now have to pay any charges.
Wren Sterling sent another letter to Mr and Mrs D on 12 June 2018 which confirmed their 
objectives and gave more detail on the charges for its advice and services. It was able to 
estimate that its fees would amount to £9576 for the (approximate) £285,586.34 that was to 
be invested in total. It also said that £2,855.86 would be charged each year through its 
ongoing client service programme. I think this letter was clear in setting out the charges and 
also asked Mr and Mrs D to contact Wren Sterling if the charges were unacceptable or 
required further clarification. 
 
But Mr and Mrs D said they didnt receive the letter and they said it hadnt been sent by 
special delivery as it should have been if it wasnt emailed. So they had no idea of the costs 
involved until the meeting of 2 July 2018 when they signed a number of forms, but 
understood there was a cooling off period during which they could read the suitability 
reports and ensure they were happy with the recommendations. It was during this time they 
asked for the applications to be put on hold. 
I dont dispute what Mr and Mrs D have said and, although Im satisfied Wren Sterling would 
have sent the letter to the address it held for Mr and Mrs D at the time, Im not able to 
confirm it was received. 
However, Mr and Mrs D have confirmed that they were made aware of these charges when 
they met with the adviser during the second meeting on 2 July 2018. I dont think it would 
have been ideal for Mr and Mrs D to only have become aware of the charges so late in the 
process, but nonetheless they were aware of them before they agreed to go ahead with the 
recommendations and sign all the various application forms  so I dont agree that they 
didnt know what the charges were before agreeing to invest. But in any case, this 
information would have built on the information they first were made aware of from the client 
agreement in February 2018  which gave them an understanding that fees would be 
involved, what the amount of charges might be based on various investment examples and 
that they would be charged if they went ahead even if they then decided to cancel the 
investments.
I know Mr and Mrs D have said that they only ever asked for advice on the
feasibility of transferring Mrs Ds final salary pension and instead received a report which 
was published without any permission from them, about other financial matters which had 
been dealt with only six months previously. 
But I think that, prior to signing the various applications forms, Mr and Mrs D were aware of 
the scope of the recommendations and the charges involved. So if they were unhappy with 
either of those things or even required clarification of the situation, I would have expected 
them to have suspended the process until they were clear on matters. 
If Mr and Mrs D had only expected to be given a recommendation for the possible transfer of 
Mrs Ds OPS, which Wren Sterling had confirmed would have carried a fixed fee of £3,500, then I would have expected Mr and Mrs D to question a situation which presented them with 
recommendations on other investments and incurred charges of nearly three times the fixed 
fee. In the circumstances I wouldnt have expected them to go ahead until they had queried 
the discrepancy between what they had expected and what Wren Sterling had presented. 
Was the fee charged reasonable?   
Mrs D said in her submission to us that, during the 2 July 2018 meeting (the adviser) asked 
for a cheque in the sum of £9,576.00 as payment for recommendation of ISA, GIA and 
pension contributions. She stated there would be a 14-day cooling off period to provide time 
for us to read and digest the Financial Planning report. This is a report we neither requested 
nor needed.
So Mr and Mrs D were aware of what the costs were for and why they amounted to the 
figure requested. But they said they decided not to go ahead during the cooling off period 
so no fees should be due. They also said that no agreement had been made for any charges 
above the minimum £1,000 fee and there was no provision for fees to be charged should 
they not go ahead with the recommendations.  In addition, they said that, after reading the 
financial planning report, they found it to contain a number of errors, some of which were 
quite personal. So they didnt feel they could trust Wren Sterling to invest their money 
thereafter.
With regards to the cooling off notice this would have applied to each individual application 
that Mr and Mrs D made, and allowed them to cancel an investment without suffering a 
financial loss. But it didnt apply to the work that Wren Sterling had carried out to that point. 
When Mr and Mrs D signed the client agreement the declaration stated that I have read and 
understood both the client agreement and the associated terms of business and wish to 
engage the services of Wren Sterling on the basis outlined.
And the section of the client agreement which explained the agreement to proceed stated 
that, the client agreement will come into effect from the date of acceptance of this 
agreement and remain in force until further notice, or until cancelled by either party. 
So it was clear that Wren Sterling started the advisory process at that point and its fees 
began from that time as well. If Mr and Mrs D had told Wren Sterling that it no longer wanted 
it to carry out analysis or conduct research and provide recommendations it could have 
halted the process  although even then fees up to the point of termination would have been 
due. But in this case Mr and Mrs D didnt stop Wren Sterling and allowed it to present its 
recommendations and complete the necessary applications. 
To support its actions Wren Sterlings terms of business sets out the terms for termination of 
authority as, you or we may terminate our authority to act on your behalf at any time, 
without penalty.  Notice of this termination must be given in writing and will take effect from 
the date of receipt.  You will be liable to pay for any transactions made and / or services 
carried out prior to termination and any adviser charges or other fees which may be 
outstanding.
So, at this point I think Wren Sterling had almost completed the actions it said it would which 
constituted its financial planning service. These were set out as, during your initial meeting, 
your adviser will assess your needs and circumstances, your attitude to risk and your 
financial situation. With the support of our team they will thoroughly research and plan our 
recommendations for you, which will be explained in your financial planning report. Finally, 
they will arrange and implement the recommendation.Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for Wren Sterling to continue to request its 
original fee. Im not aware of any regulatory requirements which sets out when a fee may be 
regarded as excessive, but what I would expect is for a business to make clients aware of its 
fees and in this case Im satisfied that Wren Sterling did that. But for completeness, in my 
experience, the initial fee of around 3% of the fund was broadly in line with what Ive seen 
charged by many other advisers and providers in the market.
So I think its possible that the fee of £9,576 was a fair reflection of the work undertaken 
here, but even if it could be argued that it may have been disproportionate Wren Sterling has 
made an offer to resolve this complaint by reducing its fee to £5,000  which is just over a 
half of the original fee. 
So, I asked Wren Sterling to breakdown the £5,000 fee and to confirm whether there were 
any individual components. Wren Sterling first confirmed that it hadnt charged the £3,500 
fixed fee for the defined benefits advice and confirmed its view that it had made Mr and Mr D 
aware that it they would be charged approximately 3% of the total amount invested  and 
believed their signature on the client agreement and completion of the application paperwork 
confirmed acceptance of the recommendations and fees involved. 
It said the final invoice it issued for £5,000 wasnt based on a pro rata basis for the work 
already undertaken before cancellation, but simply a gesture of goodwill to Mr and Mrs D to 
reach a settlement. Having taken everything into consideration, in the circumstances I think 
thats a fair and reasonable offer to have made.
The scope of the advice
Mr and Mrs D have said that they only expected Wren Sterling to give advice on Mrs Ds 
OPS and that their investments had been reviewed recently and they were happy with them. 
So they dont understand why Wren Sterling advised them on these matters and only 
devoted a couple of lines in its report about the viability of a transfer of the OPS benefits. 
So Ive looked at the fact find that the adviser completed on 18 February 2018. When setting 
out Mr and Mrs Ds objectives the fact find said, Fully utilise pension allowance for both for 
current tax year from investment. Consolidate investments where viable. Encash bond and 
invest in OEIC. Consolidate pensions where viable and increase reg savings. Make 
recommendations whether to transfer DBS or not. Based upon information provided there is 
no valid case to transfer at present which they want recommendations made. £3,500 
agreed.
I think Wren Sterlings summary of the work it was about to undertake was quite extensive 
and it was consistent with what was later presented as eventual recommendations. I know 
Mr and Mrs D said they only met the adviser to discuss the OPS benefits but I dont think its 
likely the adviser could have decided upon the objectives she set out without at least some 
discussion of the matter with Mr and Mrs D and presumably with some input from them. 
Of course, its possible that Mr and Mrs D did think the financial information Wren Sterling 
obtained was required to help reach a conclusion about an OPS transfer. 
But when the recommendations were presented to them  which included single premium 
contributions to pensions and ISAs, as well as the transfer of their investments, I think it 
would have been clear to Mr and Mrs D what the scope of the advice was. 
I would have expected them to question the breadth of recommendations at that point  
especially if they were happy with what they held and didnt want to transfer  before they 
signed the application forms involved. And in order to provide recommendations on the investments Wren Sterling needed to send 
letters of authority (LOA) to the existing providers involved. Mr and Mrs D signed these 
LOAs, so I think they ought to have been aware that information was being requested on 
their policies. But in addition the forms said that,  I/we hereby authorise the change of 
agency to Wren Sterling who will be providing ongoing advice on the policy shown below, 
and that all future adviser charges/commissions be paid to Wren Sterling with immediate 
effect.
These LOAs were sent to the providers in February 2018, so I think even at this point 
Mr and Mrs D would have been aware that Wren Sterling planned to give advice on all their 
existing investments and would receive payment for this going forward. It doesnt seem 
unreasonable that part of its advice remit would have been to make alternative 
recommendations to these products if it thought that it was able to provide a better options. 
Once again Mr and Mrs D would have been free to accept or reject those recommendations. 
The minimum £1,000 fee
Mr and Mrs D have said that the only reference to fees being taken on the non-
implementation of the recommendations from the report was that there is a minimum fee of 
£1,000 but fees can be higher depending on circumstances and the specific work 
undertaken. Where the work undertaken, or advice provided is particularly complex, then a 
fee outside of the standard bands may need to be agreed, however this fee will be agreed in 
advance and will be purely reflective of the additional work involved.
They said that no such additional fee was discussed, and nothing was agreed in the event of 
them not taking up the recommendations. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ds frustrations here, but I dont agree with their conclusions. 
The recommendations were implemented in this case and only cancelled after the 
applications were submitted and fees were paid. So I think Wren Sterling acted reasonably 
in requesting its fees be paid. And as Ive said previously even if there were any suggestion 
of the initial fees being disproportionate, then the offer to virtually halve them seems to be 
fair and reasonable in this case. 
Grammatical errors within the report
The reason Mr and Mrs D first gave when they contacted the adviser to put the application 
process on hold was the number of errors they found within the suitability report, which it 
said left them with no confidence in your professionalism and we cancelled with immediate 
effect. 
So Ive looked carefully at the financial planning report that was presented to Mr and Mrs D. 
The first thing to note is that the report runs to 45 pages and is a very in depth profile of 
Mr and Mrs Ds financial situation at that time. Its not without errors and in particular one 
section it does refer to Mrs D by a different first name on a number of occasions. But taken 
overall I dont think any of the errors have any material effect on the information thats 
provided, the conclusions that are drawn and the recommendations that are set out.
 
Im satisfied that any mistakes in the report dont unreasonably undermine the basis of the 
advice and so I dont think the grammatical mistakes identified should affect the charges that 
were applied for the advice that was given.
I note Mrs D made reference to Wren Sterlings breach of the regulations by not answering 
their complaint within the prescribed time limits. But as the investigator explained complaint 
handing itself isnt a regulated activity so we dont have the power to look into that as a 
separate point. Ive taken into account here that Mrs D has already acknowledged this point from the investigator and understands that she would need to raise that complaint with the 
regulator if required.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman