DRN-2861607
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs S have complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unreasonably
refused to pay their claim under their travel policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S plus their young son aged three went on holiday abroad in April 2019. Very
sadly, their son suffered a strangulated hernia abroad and required emergency surgery at a
cost of €7,500.
They made a claim to IPA who ultimately said that the cause of the claim arose from a pre-
existing condition and wasnt covered under their policy. It also acknowledged it said initially
it would pay their claim in error and it paid them £100 compensation for this error.
Mr and Mrs S believed that since IPA had confirmed they would pay the claim it was a
contract which Mr and Mrs S had accepted, so IPA should now pay their claim. Since IPA
refused Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to us. Mr and Mrs S also complained about
IPAs handling of their complaint.
The investigator was of the view that IPA hadnt done anything wrong in refusing to pay Mr
and Mrs S claim and complaints about the complaint handling by IPA wasnt a regulated
activity so we couldnt look at that. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree so their complaint was
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 May 2021 and I said the following:
I can appreciate and understand Mr and Mrs S issues over the handling of their 
claim and indeed subsequent complaint with IPA, however my role and that is this 
service to assess first whether IPA did anything wrong as regards its decision on Mr 
and Mrs S claim based on the terms and conditions of the policy. This is because 
irrespective of anything that occurred, IPA can only pay any claim if its covered by 
the policy. There is no duty on it to pay anything that isnt covered by its terms and 
conditions and further I have no authority to require it to pay anything that wasnt 
covered by the policy.
Most travel policies to include this one, seek to exclude claims arising out of pre-
existing medical conditions. Theres nothing wrong with that either as its an industry 
standard and moreover insurers are entitled to decide what risks they want to cover 
and what they dont. In this policy as the investigator explained in his view, whilst 
medical emergencies such as what Mr and Mrs Ss son suffered are covered, they 
are not covered if the cause of the medical emergency is from a pre-existing 
condition.
Pre-existing condition is defined in the Key Facts as follows:
Cover for Medical Conditions
There is no cover for any claims arising directly or indirectly as a result 
of any pre-existing medical conditions.
There is no cover provided by this policy if, on the commencement of 
cover under this policy or when booking any trip, you are having or 
waiting to have any medical tests or investigation, or are waiting for 
the results of any tests or investigations, into any undiagnosed 
medical condition or symptoms for which the underlying cause has 
not been diagnosed. This is regardless of how significant the issue for 
which you have been referred for further investigation was considered 
to be by the medical practitioner consulted.
Im persuaded by the medical evidence that Mr and Mrs Ss son medical emergency 
was caused by a pre-existing condition. First because since 29 March 2019 he was 
on a waiting list for a laparoscopy for the repair of a left inguinal hernia and 
furthermore the operation he required when on holiday was the repair of an 
incarcerated strangulated inguinal hernia. So just on that basis alone, the emergency 
medical procedure abroad wasnt covered.
But further the letter from their sons specialist of 29 March 2019 details that on 
examination he couldnt detect any hernia, but as Mrs S gave a classic history, hence 
he thought her son nonetheless should be put on the on the waiting list for a 
laparoscopy. I dont consider any specialist would put a young child through this 
without it being necessary. It seems given Mrs S account of her sons symptoms, the 
specialist was persuaded it was required, presumably in order to stop it becoming an 
emergency as it so sadly did, whilst they were on holiday. Therefore. I dont agree 
with Mr and Mrs S that their son didnt have a pre-existing condition under both 
clauses in this policy. I fail to see how its possible its not pre-existing given they 
agreed to have their son put on a waiting list for a further laparoscopy in March
2019 just prior to this holiday.
So, I consider IPA ultimately didnt do anything wrong in coming to its decision to 
decline to pay this claim because the cause of the claim was their sons pre-existing 
condition.
However, I do think IPAs service to Mr and Mrs S in dealing with their claim fell very 
short of what Mr and Mrs S should have expected. It wrongly told them their claim 
would be paid raising their expectations and then was more than confused and 
lacking in clarity as regards its reasons for declining the claim. But I dont consider its 
fair and reasonable that Mr and Mrs S should then be permitted to take advantage of 
IPAs error in telling them their claim would be paid by insisting consequently their 
claim should be paid. IPA explained it was an error and accepted it was an error 
since its clear on the policy terms their claim was excluded. Contracts are made on 
the basis of offer and acceptance as Mr and Mrs S have noted. But contracts also fail 
on the basis of either party making a mistake and there is no dispute here that IPA 
made a mistake. So, I dont consider Mr and Mrs S argument on this issue has any 
legal basis which impacts this complaint.
Here, because IPAs mistake didnt make Mr and Mrs S do anything to their own 
detriment consequently, we would then expect IPA to put things right by way of 
compensation. It did this by paying Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation. Thats for the 
inconvenience of the raised expectation in the making of its mistake over the 
outcome of their claim. I dont consider this is enough however. Thats because this 
error set off a chain of raised expectations and confusion from IPA to Mr and Mrs S 
which caused a considerable amount of added stress to an obviously stressful and 
costly and very worrying experience. I have no authority to fine or punish businesses for their errors. However, in similar such cases Ive awarded £250 compensation, 
which I consider to be more reasonable here.
As the investigator explained how IPA dealt with Mr and Mrs S complaint isnt a 
regulated activity and I agree with his analysis of the time line. I do consider IPA was 
unnecessarily confusing about why it wasnt paying their claim but a proportion of 
that occurred during the complaint process, which I cant consider.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the views I detailed above in my provisional decision. And 
since Im not in receipt of any additional arguments, I see no reason to change my views.
  
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr and Mrs S a further £150
compensation for the distress it caused them, making the total compensation to be paid
to be £250.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman