DRN-3221554
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Nissan Finance (RCI).   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint RCI, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then RCI, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
I dont think theres any dispute that this car was of unsatisfactory quality. RCI have 
accepted that and have agreed to take the car back and end the agreement. Theyve also 
agreed with the investigators suggested redress that they should pay Mrs M £300 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced; refund the cost of 
transferring her private number plate; provide a pro rata refund for Mrs Ms GAP and tyre 
and alloy insurance; refund Mrs Ms deposits of £5,000 and her part exchange of £1,453.17, 
and pay interest on the refunded amounts.
Id agree that there is evidence the car was not of satisfactory quality as its clear the 
business were unable to rectify faults with it that seem likely to have been present from the 
start. In particular its clear that Mrs M was complaining about the unexpected activation of 
the emergency braking system for some time and that several unsuccessful attempts had 
been made to remedy the situation. 
Id also agree with the redress thats been agreed so far, and which Ive documented above. 
That redress is in line with the approach this service usually takes.
What is currently disputed is how much of the money Mrs M has paid towards her 
agreement the business should be allowed to retain in respect of the use Mrs M has had 
from the car. 
RCI think Mrs M had full use of the car for the first twelve months as they say there was no 
proof the car was experiencing any problems with the braking system until that point. Whilst 
they accept Mrs M reported problems as early as September 2020 they say the dealership 
were unable to identify any fault codes relating to an emergency braking fault and it would be 
unfair to suggest a problem was present at that time.
It's clear from the job card in October 2020 that Mrs M was complaining of an emergency 
braking problem occurring again. Ive not got evidence of her earlier complaints to the 
dealership about this issue, but I think the fact she was clearly complaining again would 
support Mrs Ms testimony that shed been complaining verbally for some time.
As a fault with the system was subsequently identified I think its most likely the fault was 
present when Mrs M first reported it to the dealership but that it simply wasnt diagnosed by 
the dealership until later. 
Mrs M has explained that she didnt complete much mileage in the car because she was 
scared to drive it. Shes also explained that she didnt take the car abroad when she had 
planned to because of her concerns about its safety. RCI have questioned Mrs Ms usage 
and have explained that, regardless of the problems, Mrs Ms usage of the car when it 
wasnt experiencing problems and her usage of a hire car, were pro rata, lower than the 
anticipated annual mileage of 6,000 miles that was stated on the finance agreement.
 
Ive considered those views, but I think on balance it is likely that Mrs Ms use of the vehicle 
was significantly impaired by a fault with the emergency braking. I think its entirely feasible 
that she would have been worried about driving a car that stopped suddenly and 
unexpectedly and I think a reasonable way to calculate her fair usage of the car is to 
consider what proportion of the annual mileage shed used. Thats because the monthly 
repayments on the vehicle and its residual value would be calculated on the basis of that 
assumed usage.
  
Putting things right
For those reasons I would agree with the investigators view that RCI should retain five 
monthly instalments in respect of the usage Mrs M has had from the car and that they should 
also comply with the redress theyve already agreed to and which Ive summarised above.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell RCI Financial Services 
Limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.Refund the two deposits of £5,000.
Refund of the part exchange amount of £1,453.17.
Refund all premiums paid minus the five months premiums retained for use of the 
car.
Refund £80 for the cost of removing the personalised number plate.
Reimburse the pro-rata amounts Mrs M paid when she cancelled her GAP
insurance and Tyre and Alloy Insurance.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all above refunded amounts from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman