DRN-2685184
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a medical 
expenses claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
Mrs Ms represented by Mr M.
What happened
On 29 December 2019, Mrs M took out a single trip insurance policy through a broker, which 
Ill call P. Mr M took out a separate policy through P. Cover on the policy began on 31 
December 2019 and ended on 2 March 2020. Mr and Mrs M flew abroad as planned and 
were due to return to the UK on 2 March 2020.
Mr M got in touch with P on 21 April 2020. He explained that he and Mrs M were still abroad. 
He initially explained this was due to Covid-19, but later clarified that the trip had been 
extended due to family bereavements. He went on to tell Ps call handler that their flights had 
been rescheduled for 30 March 2020, but that the airline had cancelled them because of 
Covid-19. Mr and Mrs M wanted to check their potential cover.
Ps call handler told Mr and Mrs M that in these circumstances, cover would be extended at 
no additional cost. He sent Mr M an email to confirm this. Mr and Mrs M checked what would 
happen if they needed to make a medical claim and they were told to get in touch with 
URVs medical assistance team.
The following day, 22 April 2020, Mr M got in touch with URVs medical assistance team to 
make a medical expenses claim. Mrs M was admitted to hospital for treatment for iron 
deficiency. The assistance team contacted the hospital to ask for medical reports and asked 
Mrs Ms GP for a copy of her medical records. This information was received on 19 May 
2020.
However, on 21 May 2020, URV turned down Mrs Ms claim. Thats because cover on the 
policy had ended on 2 March 2020. So it said it had no liability to pay Mrs Ms medical 
expenses.
Mr M complained on Mrs Ms behalf because Ps call handler had told them that their policy 
had been automatically extended. But URV maintained its position. Thats because it said 
the policy would only be extended due to a policyholders own ill-health or death  not a 
family bereavement. And Mr and Mrs M had already decided to extend their trip before their 
re-arranged flight was cancelled and after their policy had expired. URV also noted that Mr M 
hadnt got in touch with P to ask about extended cover until the day before Mrs M needed 
medical attention  even though the policy had ended around six weeks earlier.
Mrs M remained unhappy with URVs position and Mr M complained to us on her behalf. Mr 
and Mrs M also made a separate complaint to P about the information theyd been given 
during the call on 21 April 2020. Mr M provided a letter from a doctor in the country they 
were staying in which said Mrs M had sought medical advice on 2 March 2020  the day the 
policy expired.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ms complaint. She explained that she could only look into 
whether URV had treated Mrs M fairly when it considered her claim. She didnt think the 
terms and conditions relating to extending the policy applied to Mrs Ms situation. So she 
concluded the policy had ended on 2 March 2020. She acknowledged a doctor had provided 
a letter saying Mrs M had been unwell on 2 March 2020  but she noted that this letter was 
dated around four months after the claim. And there wasnt any follow-up medical evidence 
from that time to show Mrs M had had an appointment. There was also nothing to suggest 
Mr or Mrs M got in touch with URV at this point to let it know that she was unwell. So overall, 
the investigator thought it was fair for URV to turn down the claim.
But she thought URV had had enough information at the outset to let Mrs M know that her 
claim wouldnt be covered. She considered that the medical assistance team had indicated 
to Mrs M that her claim was likely to be covered and had left Mrs M embarrassed. So she felt 
URV should pay Mrs M £200 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset this delay in 
turning down the claim had caused her. URV agreed to pay this amount and later agreed to 
increase this offer to £250.
Mr M disagreed. He said that when P told them the policy was valid, itd prevented Mr and 
Mrs M taking out a new policy which wouldve covered them going forwards, as theyve had 
to remain abroad due to Covid-19 restrictions. Theyd waited at the hospital for a few hours 
to confirm that they would be covered. If theyd been told the claim wasnt covered, they 
couldve gone to a cheaper hospital. Mr M considered theyd been left humiliated and 
discredited by URVs decision. They felt the compensation Mrs M had been offered was 
insulting and unfair, given the trauma and stress theyd experienced. 
The complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the £250 compensation URV has offered to pay Mrs M is fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, I need to make it clear that this decision will only consider whether URV handled Mrs s 
claim fairly. It wont consider whether P gave them any incorrect information, or whether P 
did anything wrong. Thats because P is a separate, regulated financial business and its 
dealt with a complaint about the information it provided Mr and Mrs M separately. URV isnt 
responsible for the information P gave Mr and Mrs M.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims fairly and promptly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other 
things, the terms of Mrs Ms policy, what Mr and Mrs M have said and sent us and the 
circumstances of the claim, to decide whether URV handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered Mrs Ms policy schedule. This sets out a snapshot of her policy details 
and includes the relevant dates of cover. Mrs Ms cover with URV began on 31 December 
2019 and ended on 2 March 2020. Mrs M didnt make a medical expenses claim until 22 
April 2020. So its clear that her policy had expired around six weeks before Mrs M claimed 
on the policy.
The policy terms and conditions make it clear that in some circumstances, URV will extend 
cover, without charge. Ive set out the relevant section of the policy below:Extension of Period
If in the event of either your: (my emphasis)
 death, injury or illness during your trip, 
 delay or failure of public transport services during your trip, 
 delay or failure of your return flight to the UK, Channel Islands or BFPO from your   
international departure point; 
you are unable to complete the trip before your travel policy expires, cover will be 
automatically extended without additional premium for the additional days necessary to 
complete the trip.
I think that the policy terms make it clear that cover will only be automatically extended in the 
event of a policyholders death, injury or illness during their trip, not of any death, illness or 
injury to a member of a policyholders family whilst theyre away. So Im satisfied it was fair 
for URV to conclude that a family bereavement wouldnt fall within the scope of this 
extension cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms airline cancelled their return flight on 30 March 2020, as a result of Covid-19. 
But from all Mr M told URV, it seems clear that this particular flight had been rearranged 
before the policy ended  the pre-booked flight was scheduled for 2 March 2020. And I can 
see from an email which Mr M sent URV on 27 April 2020 that they extended the flight due 
to a bereavement. On this basis, I dont think it was unfair for URV to consider that Mr and 
Mrs Ms original return flight hadnt been delayed or cancelled.
I can see that in the email of 27 April 2020, Mr M mentioned that Mrs M had been unwell for 
the two days before 2 March 2020. And around three months after the claim had been 
turned down, Mr M provided further evidence in support of this point. This was a letter dated 
1 July 2020, from a doctor in the country Mr and Mrs M were (and are still) staying in. This 
letter says that Mrs M was seen in the doctors clinic on 2 March 2020, suffering weakness 
and lethargy, following vomiting and diarrhoea and heavy bleeding. The doctor said theyd 
done some blood tests, which showed Mrs M had a severe iron deficiency. They said: I 
advised her to be admitted for further management as she was unfit to travel.
Ive thought very carefully about this evidence, because a policyholders illness is a covered 
reason for extended a policy automatically. But from the evidence to hand, while the doctor 
says they advised Mrs M to be admitted to hospital on 2 March 2020, theres nothing to 
show Mrs M was admitted at that time, or that she received any further treatment. Based on 
what Ive seen, Mrs M didnt seek hospital treatment for around a further six weeks and I 
havent seen any evidence to show the doctor who provided this letter treated or monitored 
Mrs M in any way. There are no blood test results for me to consider (given the doctor 
mentioned these had been carried out) or any evidence of any treatment Mrs M mightve 
received. This seems unusual if the doctor considered Mrs M was so unwell that she wasnt 
fit to travel.
We also asked URV to carry out a search of its phone records to see if Mr or Mrs M let it (or 
P) know about her illness at that point. But theres no record of any contact with P before 21 
April 2020 and with URV before 22 April 2020. If Mrs M had been advised to seek hospital 
admission or had been told she wasnt fit to fly and needed to extend her trip, I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for her or Mr M to get in touch with URV at this point and check 
whether theyd still be covered. From the evidence Ive seen though, Mr M didnt mention 
Mrs Ms illness until a few days after the claim had been made.
On this basis, I dont think it was unfair for URV to conclude that there wasnt enough evidence to show Mrs M was unwell on 2 March 2020 and that her policy extension cover 
shouldve automatically engaged at that point. This means I think it was fair and reasonable 
for URV to decide that Mrs Ms policy had ended on 2 March 2020 and that her medical 
expenses werent covered.
However, while I think it was fair for URV to conclude Mrs Ms claim wasnt covered, I dont 
think it handled the claim as promptly or fairly as it couldve done. Like the investigator, I 
think the fact that Mrs Ms policy had ended shouldve been apparent to URVs assistance 
team at the point the claim was made, or very shortly afterwards. Thats because it had 
access to details about the policy  including the applicable cover dates. This means it 
couldve told Mrs M upfront that she had no cover and would need to pay her own medical 
expenses. Instead, it spent around four weeks obtaining Mrs Ms medical records so it could 
validate her claim.
I dont think URV told Mr or Mrs M that the claim would be covered  they knew URV needed 
to check Mrs Ms medical records before cover could be confirmed. But I can understand 
why they thought URV was considering settling the claim. And I dont doubt how upsetting 
and frustrating it was when they learned that the claim wasnt covered and theyd be 
responsible for the medical bills themselves.
But this doesnt mean I think URV needs to pay the claim. Mrs M was ill and needed medical 
treatment. I think its unlikely that if shed known URV wouldnt be liable for her medical bills, 
she wouldve chosen not to receive necessary medical treatment. And I also havent seen 
enough evidence to show me that there was another local hospital which couldve provided 
the same treatment Mrs M received any cheaper. 
I do think though that URVs failure to tell Mrs M upfront that she didnt have any cover 
caused her trouble and upset. And I dont doubt that she felt embarrassed when having to 
later deal with the hospital. So I think its appropriate that URV pays Mrs M compensation to 
reflect the impact the trouble and upset had on her. Im pleased to see its offered to pay her 
£250 compensation, which I think is a fair amount to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused in a four-week delay in turning down the claim. 
Overall, I sympathise strongly with Mrs Ms position. I understand she and Mr M have been 
unable to return to the UK since March 2020, because of Covid-19 restrictions and I dont 
doubt how stressful this situation mustve been for them, on top of Mrs Ms ill-health. But for 
the reasons Ive given above, I think URVs offer to pay Mrs M £250 compensation is a fair 
outcome to resolve this complaint.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mrs M £250 compensation.
Im not directing URV to pay Mrs Ms claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman