DRN-2023091
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with and settled a claim he made 
under a landlords insurance policy for damaged items within his rental property.
What happened
Mr K owns a ground floor flat, which he rents out on an unfurnished basis. On 5 December 
2018 he took out a landlord insurance policy online. This policy is underwritten by Ageas. 
When Mr K took out his policy he selected contents cover for up to £10,000. As his flat is 
unfurnished, he only wanted to insure the washing machine and oven within his flat. 
After taking out this policy, the oven and washing machine within Mr Ks flat were damaged. 
This was caused by an escape of flat from the flat above, which caused Mr Ks ceiling to 
collapse.
When Mr K contacted Ageas in order to make a claim under his policy for the damaged 
items in his flat, it declined to cover his oven as it said this was a fixture and fitting. So, it 
would be covered by a buildings insurance policy, which Mr K hadnt taken out. 
Ageas agreed to consider Mr Ks claim for his damaged washing machine. But it explained 
that the cost of replacing this item was less than the excess that applied to an escape of 
water claim. So, it said it wasnt worthwhile settling this claim.
Mr K had also asked Ageas to provide financial assistance because hed been forced to 
apply a rent reduction as he said the lack of a washing machine and oven rendered his 
property uninhabitable. But Ageas disagreed with Mr K on this and declined to cover this part 
of his claim.
Mr K complained to Ageas about how it had settled his claim. But it didnt uphold his 
complaint as it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Being dissatisfied with Ageas 
response to his complaint, he referred it to our service. And he asked us to assess whether 
Ageas had fairly dealt with his claim.
Our investigator considered the evidence provided by Mr K and Ageas. But they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They didnt think Ageas had made an error in declining 
Mr Ks claim. And, as our investigator thought Ageas had dealt with Mr Ks claim fairly, they 
didnt think it needed to do anything further. But Mr K disagreed and asked for his complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr K has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some detailed 
submissions about why he disagrees with how Ageas has settled the claim he made. I want 
to assure him that Ive read everything hes sent us. Where I havent commented on a 
specific complaint point raised by Mr K or Ageas its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome for the complaint as a whole.
The crux of this complaint is whether Ageas made a mistake, or treated Mr K unfairly, in how 
it assessed and dealt with his claim  such that it needs to now put things right. 
Its not in dispute that there was damage to the items Mr K claimed for. However, theres a 
disagreement between him and Ageas about whether its acted reasonably in declining to 
cover his claim.
As there are three parts to Mr Ks complaint that this service is considering under this 
complaint reference, I think it will make things clearer if I deal with each separately. I 
understand that Mr K has raised a complaint that his policy was mis-sold to him. But this 
complaint is being addressed by our service separately. So, I wont consider Mr Ks 
comments about that matter within this decision
Did Ageas act reasonably in declining to cover Mr Ks claim for his damaged oven? 
Mr K has asked Ageas to cover the cost of replacing his damaged oven. But its declined to 
do so as it says this item isnt covered under his policy of insurance.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr Ks policy with Ageas insures his 
contents only. Fixtures and fittings would be covered by buildings insurance, which Mr K 
doesnt hold with Ageas. So, if a damaged item is a fixture and fitting, I cant fairly ask Ageas 
to cover it.
Having considered Mr Ks description of his oven and the photographs of it that our service 
has received Im satisfied that its a built-in appliance. I say this because, as our investigator 
has already said, it has a worktop above it, fitted units either side and a plinth underneath. 
So, Im satisfied Mr Ks oven is a fixed item that would be difficult to remove. This is 
something that I can see Mr K doesnt dispute.
Our service would consider an oven, fitted in the way Mr Ks is, to be a permanent fixture. 
So, it would be classed as part of the fixture and fittings of the building. I say this because 
our general approach when considering what items are contents is that if you were to turn 
the house upside down, anything that would fall out is considered to be contents. Anything 
that remains in its place would be covered under a buildings insurance policy.
In this case, if Mr Ks property had been turned upside down, theres no doubt the oven 
would have remained in place. And, as the terms of his policy with Ageas explain that 
fixtures and fittings include built-in domestic appliances, its therefore right to say his oven 
would be covered under a buildings insurance policy. So, I dont think Ageas made an error 
in repudiating his claim for this item.  
Did Ageas act unfairly in declining to replace Mr Ks washing machine?
An insurer will usually cover a claim for a damaged item where its value exceeds the excess 
a policyholder must pay under their policy. In this case theres a £350 excess for claims 
made under the escape of water peril. This excess applies to Mr Ks claim for his damaged 
washing machine only because, as Ive already explained, his oven isnt covered under the 
policy he took out.I understand the cost of replacing Mr Ks washing machine was less that £350. Im therefore 
satisfied that if Ageas had agreed to replace his washing machine it would have put him in a 
worse position than if hed purchased a replacement directly himself. This would be contrary 
to the terms of an insurance policy, which isnt intended to put a policyholder in a worse off 
position. Im therefore satisfied that Ageas acted reasonably and in Mr Ks best interests in 
declining to replace his washing machine.
Did Ageas act fairly in declining to cover Mr Ks loss of rental income
I can see Mr K asked Ageas to cover the rental income he lost as a result of what happened. 
But his policy schedule sets out clearly that rental income protection is excluded from his 
policy. So, it would be unfair for me to tell Ageas to cover any loss of rent he may have 
incurred.  
I understand Mr K feels very strongly about the issues raised in his complaint and I realise 
hell be disappointed with this decision. But for the reasons already outlined I think Ageas 
has dealt his claim fairly. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman