DRN-2646952
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint is led by her representative and attorney (A) who has held a Lasting 
Power of Attorney (LPA) for her since 2015. A says OCM Wealth Management Ltd. (OCM) 
did as follows:
Referred A to the Office of Public Guardian (OPG) in 2019; without prior notice to 
him; and on the basis of a vexatious, misconceived and unsubstantiated allegation 
about him abusing the LPA he held for Miss M. [issue 1]
Did the above in breach of specific duties it had under the Principles of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles  Principles 1 (especially), 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9. 
[issue 2]
Did the above in breach of its duties towards A as a client of OCM, such client status 
having been created by the settling of the LPA for Miss M (whereby A thereafter 
substituted Miss M as OCMs client). [issue 3]
A says that as a direct result of OCMs conduct he incurred professional costs in order to 
inform and defend his position in the course of the OPG investigation and he suffered wider 
financial losses and damage to health. He seeks compensation for all.
As reflected below, A subsequently cited matters in the complaint that go beyond the above 
claims.
What happened
OCM disputes the complaint and submitted a detailed response to A, which can be 
summarised as follows:
It was Miss Ms Discretionary Investment Manager (DIM) and her financial adviser at 
the time of the OPG referral. Nothing in or from the LPA substituted A for Miss M as 
OCMs client. The LPA gave A standing to make decisions for Miss M, but Miss M 
remained OCMs client and its overall duty of care remained towards her only  A 
was not its client. It regarded Miss M as a vulnerable client because she met the 
FCAs definition of such a client, and it was entitled to regard her as such.
Its concerns about A and about some of his conduct in executing his role as Miss Ms 
attorney was neither frivolous nor vexatious. They also were not misconceived or 
unsubstantiated. They date back to 2017 and were raised with A at the time  and 
continued to be raised with him, without resolution, up to 2019 when OCM 
considered dialogue with him to have been exhausted and reasonably took the step 
of referring its concerns to the OPG. 
In the main, OCM held legitimate concerns about the potential for a conflict of 
interests arising from As roles as Miss Ms attorney and as the Director of the 
Limited Company that, in the course of its business, provided care for her (including 
a specific concern that sustenance of the company mainly or wholly relied on 
revenue from the care service to Miss M, which might have led to the companys 
interest being prioritised above hers); about the comparatively higher (and 
increasing) costs of the care provided to Miss M which appeared to be an outlier 
compared to the costs of more traditional care settings; and about a succession of 
substantial financial gifts, from Miss Ms assets, that A had made to himself and to 
his siblings between 2017 and 2019, each of which he knew OCM was concerned 
about (for reasons discussed with him, including inappropriateness and the 
unaffordability of the gifts). It first referred a concern to the OPG in 2018 with regards 
to the limited company issue and then it did so again in 2019 because its overall 
concerns about A had been compounded by the gifting issue. 
It is expressly within the OPGs remit to be informed of and to address concerns 
about an attorneys conduct in relation to a donors or clients interest and in relation 
to matters such as potential misuse of the donors/clients money and conduct 
potentially conflicting with the donors/clients interest. As such, referral of its 
concerns to the OPG was reasonable and legitimate. It had no obligation to give A 
prior notice of its referral and it had already attempted, without success, to resolve 
the concerns with him. 
For the above reasons  and mindful that Miss M was OCMs client and that it was 
her it owed its duty of care to  OCMs actions were consistent with Principles 1 
(Integrity), 2 (skill, care and diligence), 3 (management and control), 6 (clients 
interests and fair treatment), 7 (communications with clients), 8 (conflict of interests) 
and 9 (relationships of trust).
For the above reasons, it considers it has no case  related to A  to answer and it 
has no responsibility for the compensation he claims.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, concluded that it should not be upheld 
and broadly agreed with OCMs position. A disagreed with this outcome and stressed his 
view that OCM had acted without integrity, had acted without authority to do so (as it had no 
authority to act for Miss M given that she was no longer its client and he was) and had acted 
contrary to his and Miss Ms interests. He insisted that OCMs referral to the OPG was 
vexatious, was done in retaliation for a past disagreement(s) he had with it and was not in 
any way done to protect Miss M  who, he says, needed no such protection from his conduct 
as attorney. A also mentioned concerns that he had about OCM and that Miss M had 
stopped trusting OCM many years ago because of similar concerns.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view and she noted that As reference to 
concerns about OCM and Miss Ms alleged mistrust of OCM were new issues which had not 
been previously raised with OCM (or this service). 
A developed his rebuttal to the investigators view by submitting evidence (including video 
evidence) in support of his claim that Miss M mistrusted OCM and by submitting a new 
complaint issue alleging that, because of the omission of requisite wording in the [financial] 
LPA, OCM has not had legal standing to act as Miss Ms DIM since 2015 and, as such, has 
done so since then unlawfully. He submitted evidence, including the legal opinion and legal 
authorities he relied upon, in this respect. 
The investigator put the matter of legitimacy of the DIM service, in the context of the LPA, to 
OCM. It considered that As challenge in this respect was merely As way of recycling his 
original grievance and presenting the same grievance with a new argument. As such, it 
confirmed it was prepared to address it. In the main, its position is that the wording 
requirement, in order to legitimise a DIM arrangement within a financial LPA, became 
compulsory after the date on which As LPA for Miss M was settled in 2015; and that revising 
such a pre-existing LPA thereafter was optional, not compulsory as A claims; so it has not acted without authority and it has not misled A or Miss M (whilst also noting that it had no 
responsibility towards A and none in terms of informing and/or advising A about matters 
associated with the LPA he acted under and/or about his actions under the LPA).
OCMs response was shared with A, and he provided a detailed reply, and rebuttal, to it.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Original Complaint
The nature of this complaint is patently clear. In the main, it is about A and it is not directly 
about Miss M  Miss M being the complainant. 
At best, A could argue that the complaint is indirectly about Miss M because the complaint 
issues affected him in his capacity as attorney for Miss M. However, a distinction must be 
drawn between what is alleged to have affected A as an individual (and no more), within his 
role as attorney for Miss M, and what is alleged to have gone beyond that and to have 
obstructed A in discharging his role as attorney for Miss M. The latter potentially bears an 
indirect effect on Miss M, but the former arguably does not. Available evidence shows that 
this complaint is mainly about the former. 
I have not seen evidence that OCMs referral of its concerns about A obstructed A from 
discharging a particular duty or responsibility as attorney for Miss M. In this respect, it is 
noteworthy that there is no evidence of As role(s) being restricted upon the referral to the 
OPG or during the OPGs investigation, and the outcome of the OPGs investigation was that 
no further action was to be taken on the matter  other than an advisory comment the OPG 
made for his ongoing attention  and A faced no sanction or negative outcome from the 
process. As such, whilst A has referred to personal and financial costs incurred in the 
process, the process itself did not affect his role as attorney and neither did the outcome of 
the process. The same applies to conclude that there was no indirect detriment, from the 
referral, upon Miss M. 
For the above reasons the complaint is addressed only in the context of Miss M as 
complainant. If, as he alleges, a separate and distinct customer relationship existed between 
A and OCM, the present complaint has not been presented as one arising from such a 
relationship. A retains his discretion to address that separately. The present complaint has 
been brought on behalf of Miss M, so any such separate and distinct relationship between A 
and OCM is irrelevant to my determinations.
It is necessary to maintain Miss Ms and As anonymity within this decision, and this extends 
to avoiding contents which could potentially and indirectly lead to their identification and to 
breach of such anonymity. For this reason, I will not set out all the details of evidence I have 
seen about the inter-relationship between A and OCM with regards to Miss M. It is sufficient 
to say that the evidence I have seen includes the following:
The existence, as a matter of fact, of the limited company set up and run by A for the 
purpose of providing care to Miss M; the care related fees/costs that concerned 
OCM; information about the [undisputed] gifts and gift requests by A, from Miss Ms 
assets and for his and his siblings benefits; and information and correspondence 
between OCM and A (between 2017 and 2019) about its concerns over these matters and about the cost of care and about the unaffordability of the outgoings from 
Miss Ms assets caused by these matters.
The LPA.
Evidence of OCMs role as Miss Ms DIM and financial adviser.
The outcome of OCMs OPG referral.
Overall, on balance and in the context of Miss M as the complainant, I consider that issue 1 
falls away. OCM did no more than share its concerns with the OPG. It did not go to the 
extent of prejudging or unduly influencing the outcome of the OPG referral (or process) and I 
am satisfied that it deferred the investigation and determination of its concerns to the OPG. 
Nevertheless, it had to present its referral on the basis of what it was genuinely concerned 
about and that is evident, but I do not consider it was not entitled to do this. Its referral was 
mainly based on factual events and I have not seen evidence that it fabricated any of these. 
I appreciate that A disagrees with OCMs views and opinions on those events but both A and 
OCM were entitled to their respective opinions on the matter and OCM was not prohibited 
from expressing its to A and/or the OPG. Indeed, and as OCM has stated, the OPGs 
existence, role and remit actively invites information and referrals based on views that an 
attorney might be abusing its role (with regards to a donors or clients interests). OCM 
cannot reasonably be criticised for referring what appears to be its sincerely held concerns 
about A and Miss Ms interests (and assets) in this respect. I note As argument that OCMs 
real motive was revenge for a previous disagreement, but I have not seen evidence to 
sustain this argument or to persuade me that such was the case. 
The facts behind OCMs concerns, which do not appear to be in dispute, are such that the 
risk of potential attorney abuse was not an unreasonable conclusion for it to reach. Indeed, I 
note a concession by Mr A that he is not, or might not be, particularly aggrieved that OCM 
felt the need to make the referral, instead he considers the problem to have been the 
manner in which OCM made the referral. I have considered his arguments in this respect 
and, on balance, I am not persuaded that OCM made the referral in an unreasonable 
manner. Even if I am wrong in this respect, it remains the case that the referral was 
reasonably made and I have not seen evidence that the OPG was unduly influenced, or 
influenced at all, by the manner in which it was made or presented. I also repeat that A faced 
no sanction or negative outcome from the referral.
As the investigator explained, Miss M remained OCMs client [until 2020] and As argument 
that he substituted her in that role is without merit. I acknowledge that, as attorney, he had 
the power to terminate OCMs service. However, if he took such a step, he would have done 
so on behalf of OCMs client/Miss M, not as a client of OCM. In any case, no such 
termination happened. I also acknowledge that A was in a position to make decisions and 
give OCM instructions, but he did these also on behalf of OCMs client/Miss M, not as a 
client of OCM. It therefore follows that issue 3 is also without merit.
In terms of issue 2, OCMs obligation to adhere to the FCAs Principles is not in dispute. 
Indeed, it concedes this duty and it says it discharged this duty, in every respect cited by A, 
by raising its concerns and by referring them to the OPG  and I agree. All the Principles A 
has mentioned relate to OCMs responsibility as a regulated firm towards its client  Miss M. 
I have seen no evidence that it held a vested and/or conflicting interest in the concerns it 
raised or in its referral of those concerns to the OPG, so Principle 8 (conflicts of interest) 
does not appear to be relevant; those concerns were legitimate and they were aimed 
towards safeguarding Miss Ms interests; so I do not consider that it acted without integrity (Principle 1) and I do not consider that its actions breached her interests or was unfair to her 
(Principle 6).
I am satisfied with documentary evidence showing that OCM monitored and managed the 
matters leading to its concerns adequately, first in its dealings with A, then in its initial 
referral to the OPG, then in its continued dealings with A and then in its subsequent referral 
to the OPG. As such, I do not consider that it handled the matters without due skill, care and 
diligence (Principle 2) or that it mismanaged the matter (Principle 3).
There is evidence showing OCM in a reasonable level of transparent engagement with A, on 
behalf of Miss M, with regards to the matters leading to its 2019 OPG referral, so I do not 
consider that it breached Principle 7s requirement for clear, fair and not misleading 
communications. I appreciate that A is unhappy that OCM did not give him prior notice of the 
2019 OPG referral, but it was not required to do so and I am not persuaded that this, alone, 
amounted to a breach of Principle 7.
Principle 9 appears to be irrelevant given that it relates to relationships of trust with 
customers and to a firms responsibility to ensure the suitability of its advice (to) and of its 
discretionary decisions for a customer. Despite As claim that there were grounds for him 
and Miss M to mistrust OCM, this is not a fair issue within the present complaint. I appreciate 
that the investigator exercised discretion to share her views on this point, but at the present 
decision stage I do not consider that I have comparable discretion  to issue a binding 
decision on a complaint, inclusive of a matter that OCM does not appear to have been given 
full and fair opportunity to address or to properly address. Reference to and development of 
this issue happened at late stages of this services investigation and, in the main, happened 
after the investigators view. It is not clear that OCM has seen the video evidence, or is 
aware of the complaint context within which it sits and/or has had a chance to respond to it.
The investigators comments on this issue were shared with A in order to help him 
understand why she did not consider it sufficient to change her view. She was correct in 
doing so. However, if A strongly believes there is a distinct claim against OCM based on 
alleged mistrust and if he can show detriment to Miss M (and a basis to claim compensation 
for Miss M) arising from any such claim, he should consider first presenting it to OCM for its 
consideration and response.
If A cites Principle 9 in terms of the discretionary decision OCM made to refer its concerns to 
the OPG, I am satisfied that its referral and the concerns it referred were reasonable and 
legitimate, so I do not consider that it breached Principe 9 in this respect.
The DIM related complaint
This is a new matter. Again, the investigator has exercised discretion that she is entitled to 
use by considering it, with OCMs agreement, and by obtaining OCMs comments on it. OCM 
also appears to have applied its own discretion by addressing it, despite the fact that it is a 
new complaint issue. I acknowledge that OCM takes a somewhat different view and 
considers it to be essentially a new argument in support of the same complaint A has about 
the OPG referral. This might or might not be so. However, it cannot be ignored that inherent 
within this new complaint is the serious allegation that OCM has managed Miss Ms assets 
unlawfully since 2015.
I am not persuaded that it is fair and reasonable to issue a final decision on this matter. For 
the sake of clarity, it is worth noting that I have issued a decision in a linked complaint 
featuring A and OCM, and this matter was not addressed there because documentation for it 
is mainly in Miss Ms case. I am not persuaded to issue a final decision on this matter because primarily I consider that it 
is matter of, in the main, regulation. If Miss M (or A on her behalf) believes and feels strongly 
that OCM has managed her assets unlawfully since 2015, as A alleges, that is a matter she 
should consider presenting to the FCA. The allegation carries the potential implication that 
OCM has conducted a regulated activity unlawfully  a matter that, in isolation, is firmly 
within the FCAs regulatory remit and beyond this services Alternative Dispute Resolution 
(ADR) remit.
As far as presenting the matter to this service, I have not seen any reference to a detriment 
or financial loss to Miss M arising from the allegation. Such elements could, if they exist, 
potentially create a basis for the matter to be both for the FCAs regulatory attention and for 
our ADR related attention. At present neither element appears to exist.
A might refer to the OPG referral as a detriment  which, he could argue, would not have 
happened if OCM was not Miss Ms DIM in 2019  but I have already addressed above how 
the OPG referral was in Miss Ms interest, so I do not consider that there are grounds to 
conclude it was detrimental to her. A considers that it was detrimental (including financially 
detrimental) to him, but I repeat what I have also addressed above  Miss M is the 
complainant, not A.
I note As reference to OCM receiving fees since 2015 that it ought not to have received, 
based on the unlawful DIM service allegation. I am not minded to regard this as evidence of 
a detriment or financial loss. Miss M required discretionary investment management of her 
assets in any case, so such fees (or arguably comparable fees) would have been incurred 
elsewhere with a different DIM, even if OCM was not the DIM after 2015.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I make no decision on this new complaint 
issue.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman