DRN-2740569
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax reported incorrect information to 
the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs), and also wasnt clear about how a reduced payment 
plan would affect his credit file.
What happened
Mr A took out a loan with Halifax for close to £25,000 in December 2017. In August 2019, 
Mr A fell into financial difficulties. He asked Halifax for help with his monthly payments and 
entered into a reduced payment arrangement where he made reduced monthly payments 
towards his loan for three months. At the end of this period, the repayment plan was 
extended a further three times.
Following this, Mr A became aware that his credit file had been affected, with arrears 
showing. He said he didnt understand why this was the case, given that hed made his 
payments on time. He also says he wasnt given any warning about the impact the 
repayment plan would have on his credit file. He complained to Halifax.
Halifax reviewed matters and explained to Mr A that it had to record the number of 
contractual payments he had missed, which had accrued as arrears whilst he was on the 
reduced payment plan. Mr A remained unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters but didnt think Halifax had made an error. She 
referenced the letters that Halifax had sent Mr A, which outlined that it would report the 
position of the account to the CRAs, which may have an adverse impact on his credit file. 
So, overall, she didnt think Mr A had been treated unfairly.
Halifax didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr A did. He didnt agree that adverse 
was specific enough, and he ultimately felt Halifax couldve been clearer about the overall 
impact the matter would have on his credit rating. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Halifax needs to do anything to resolve this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mr A was having difficulties making his contractual repayments on his loan account. So, 
Halifax agreed to enter Mr A into a repayment plan to assist him, where he made reduced 
repayments towards his loan. In doing so, I think it gave due consideration to Mr As 
circumstances when he found himself in financial difficulties.
Whilst in the repayment plan, Mr A was no longer making the contractual repayments 
towards his loan as set out in his original loan agreement. Mr A has pointed out that this is 
being reflected as arrears on his credit file and his credit rating is now poor. However, Mr A 
was no longer making the contractual repayments set out in his original loan agreement. 
Therefore, I dont think Halifax was wrong to report that arrears were accruing on the 
account, as banks have an obligation to report accurate information to the CRAs and this 
was an accurate reflection of the status of the account.
As I understand it, Mr A doesnt think Halifax was clear about the impact that the repayment 
plan would have on his credit file. Ive reviewed contemporaneous notes from the phone 
conversations between Halifaxs advisers and Mr A when Mr A entered the repayment plans. 
The notes show that the advisers made it clear that the account was in arrears and that this 
information may be recorded with the CRAs.
Ive also seen copies of letters Halifax sent Mr A when it arranged the plans. They said:
Your loan has gone into arrears and these will continue to show as arrears during 
this repayment arrangement and will therefore remain payableAlthough we have 
agreed a temporary repayment arrangement, arrears will continue to build up based 
on the full monthly payments set out on your original loan agreement
While this repayment arrangement is in place, the information we send to Credit 
Reference Agencies will show the position of this account. This may have an adverse 
impact on your credit rating.
Having reviewed the contents of the letters Halifax sent Mr A, I think Halifax was clear about 
how matters would be reported to the CRAs.
Overall, I sympathise with Mr A and understand that hes upset his credit file has been 
affected. But, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I think Halifax was correctly reporting that 
Mr As account was in an arrangement to pay. And, I think it was clear with Mr A about how 
the account would be reported. Halifaxs reporting of the account appears to be supported by 
one of the CRAs. As I understand it, another CRA appears to be reporting this differently. 
But, if Mr A has concerns about how specific CRAs are reporting the information, hell need 
to pursue that directly with them.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has dealt with this complaint fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman