DRN-1640757
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the cost of their home insurance, in particular the price they 
were quoted for the 2019 renewal. Mr and Mrs Ps home insurance provider is Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have had home insurance with Lloyds for around ten years, and they were 
offered renewal each year up until 2019. The insurance was provided as separate buildings 
and contents policies.
The combined cost in 2017 was around £325 and in 2018 it went down to around £275.
Mr and Mrs P then received renewal invitations in 2019, this quoted them around £400. 
Unhappy with the significant increase, Mr and Mrs P contacted Lloyds for an explanation. 
Lloyds looked to see if it had any other policies which might be cheaper but was unable to 
find one it could offer a quote on. Mr and Mrs P were told by Lloyds that they considered 
their area to be a flood risk.
Mr and Mrs P say thats wrong and they dont think its fair. They state their property was 
built in the 1960s and has never suffered a flood. Mr and Mrs P have also said there are no 
records of recent crime in their area. Mr and Mrs P didnt renew their policy, deciding to take 
their business elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs P felt the price was previously going down because of their loyalty, and because 
they hadnt made any claims. Mr and Mrs P wanted a written apology and compensation for 
the distress caused, firstly by the price rise and secondly with what they consider to be 
unfathomable reasons for it.
An investigator here looked into Mr and Mrs Ps concerns. The investigator said its for 
Lloyds to assess the risk. Mr and Mrs P werent happy with that, so the case was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P but Im not upholding their complaint, Ill explain why.
It may help for me to first explain that its generally up to insurers to assess how they price 
their policies. Theyll assess what they consider to be the risk presented, and will consider 
how much they need to charge to cover that risk. Theyll take into account other factors such 
as operating costs and, as theyre a business, any profit they wish to make. Each insurer will 
look at things differently, which is why you might find a vast range of prices if you asked for a 
quote from several insurers or on a price comparison website.
That means, some insurers may think a post code is at a high risk of flooding, whereas 
others might not. That is generally for the insurer to assess and not something we would 
tend to interfere with. This is, in part, because if someone feels theyre being charged too 
much they can shop around, much like Mr and Mrs P decided to do when they left Lloyds for 
another insurer.
Its also the case that insurers will change their view of risk over time, so while Lloyds 
considered Mr and Mrs Ps property to be in a flood risk area, they may think differently at 
some point in the future.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P have concerns that Lloyds has used the flood risk and crime risk 
reasons to in some way overcharge them or penalise them. Particularly with what
Mr and Mrs P have said about their own research into flooding and crime. I think its 
understandable that theyd be upset and might feel Lloyds is suggesting their home is in 
some way in an undesirable area, particularly if their local knowledge and research suggests 
otherwise.
But I dont think Lloyds is trying to denigrate Mr and Mrs Ps home, and theyre allowed to 
look at things in their own way. As I said, Mr and Mrs P have said they didnt make claims 
and have gone elsewhere. So, it may be that Lloyds has lost a good customer because of 
the way it sees things. 
As part of my consideration I had a look at the government website on flood risk, and that 
describes the area around Mr and Mrs Ps address as being at a high risk of flood from 
surface water. So, while Mr and Mrs Ps home, or even road, may not have suffered a flood 
for over 60 years, that doesnt mean Lloyds is wrong to consider the area as a flood risk.
I should advise at this point that insurers may use a variety of different sources for assessing 
flood risk, and they arent necessarily bound by what our government website says. I just 
thought it was a helpful indicator to show that Lloyds isnt alone in the view it has taken.
Turning to what Mr and Mrs P have said about living in a low crime area. Theyve said this 
information came from the police. I dont doubt that, but I havent seen anything to suggest 
Lloyds considers Mr and Mrs Ps property at high risk of crime. I note in their final response 
letter they said:
If our records show an increasing incidence of burglary in the immediate area, premiums 
will be priced to reflect the additional risk.
This was said to give Mr and Mrs P an example of the different factors which can affect the 
price, not a statement of fact about crime in their area. Although I can understand why they 
mightve felt it was an assertion that their price had been increased due to crime.
As I said earlier, Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but I dont believe Lloyds has done 
anything wrong. I hope my explanation has been of some help though.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 Will Weston
Ombudsman