DRN-2365227
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with Metro Bank Plcs handling of his buy-to-let mortgage.
 
Mr G said it wasnt made clear to him that he had two separate mortgage sub-accounts 
which now means he has to pay two arrangement fees when he wants to switch interest 
rates on the separate sub-accounts. 
Mr G says it wasnt made clear to him that he could merge the two mortgage sub-accounts 
in order to ensure there would only be one arrangement fee payable when he switched 
interest rates. He has said all his options, at the time of switching interest rates, should have 
been made clear to him.
 
In addition, Mr G is unhappy that Metro didnt send out reversion letters to him via email as 
he had requested of them. 
To resolve things Mr G is looking for the arrangement fee on his second product switch in 
2019 to be refunded. And for the interest rate switches on his accounts to be backdated as if 
theyd switched without reverting to the Metro standard variable rate (SVR) at any time. 
What happened
Its understood that Mr G owns several buy-to-let properties either directly or through a 
limited company. In 2015 he took out the buy-to-let mortgage for property A in his own 
name. Mr G borrowed £207,000 on an interest only basis over a term of 25 years and with a 
fixed interest rate that would end on 12 August 2017. A broker arranged the mortgage for 
Mr G. 
On 8 June 2017 Mr G applied directly with Metro for a further advance of £50,000. The 
further advance was arranged on an execution only basis by Metro  meaning no advice 
was given to Mr G about his mortgage arrangements. The funds were released on 27 June 
2017. The additional borrowing was arranged on a repayment basis over 23 years and with 
a mortgage interest rate that would end on 1July 2019.
 
Before the funds for the additional borrowing were released, Metro wrote to Mr G on 24 June 
2017 to say that his main mortgage account would revert to the SVR from 12 August 2017. 
 
Mr G changed the interest rate on his main mortgage so it would switch on 12 September 
2017. But complained to Metro that hed not been able to change the interest rate in time for 
it to take effect from 12 August 2017 and so he had incurred a financial loss by paying the 
higher SVR for one month. 
Metro looked into the complaint and didnt uphold Mr Gs concerns at that time. But Metro 
took the decision to process a refund for the second arrangement fee of £499 as Mr G had 
paid one for the further advance application and a second fee for the interest rate change on 
the main mortgage. This was a decision Metro made even though theyd noted that Mr G 
had changed the interest rate on the main mortgage account two months after the further 
advance had been arranged. 
Metro sent Mr G reminders that the interest rate deal on his further advance would be ending 
on 1 July 2019. These reversion letters were sent on 30 January 2019, 31 March 2019 and 
13 May 2019. The communications explained Mr G would need to tell Metro 10 days before 
1 July 2019 if he wanted to change the interest rate to allow time for this to be processed. 
Mr G didnt switch the interest rate in time on the further advance, so this was moved to the 
SVR. And a letter dated 2 July 2019 was posted to Mr G confirming this. 
On 7 July 2019 Mr G called Metro due to the letter hed received. Mr G said hed not taken 
out any further borrowing. Metro confirmed to Mr G the details of the further advance. And let 
Mr G know when the interest rate would end. Mr G was unhappy and confused why there 
was a split with his borrowing  he didnt think it was right that he should have two accounts 
or two mortgages as he saw it. Mr G was told he could find out more online about his 
accounts. Metro also found Mr Gs address and referred to it during the call  Mr G didnt 
make any mention of this address being incorrect at the time. 
Metro sent Mr G a product switch offer on 14 July 2019 after he completed an application 
through the online portal. The new rate for the further advance was for a five year fixed rate. 
The mortgage remained on a repayment basis. And the fee for changing interest rates was 
£499. Metro confirmed to Mr G theyd received his acceptance of the offer and that the 
interest rate on the further advance would switch on 1 August 2019. 
On 25 July 2019 Metro wrote to Mr G to let him know the interest rate on the main mortgage 
would be changing to the SVR on 12 September 2019. Mr G didnt apply to change the 
interest rate on the main mortgage until 18 October 2019. The interest rate was changed to 
a five year fixed rate and the mortgage remained on an interest only basis. Metro later 
confirmed the switch would happen on 12 November 2019. 
To change the interest rate on the main mortgage the paperwork showed Mr G would pay a 
£499 fee to do this. Mr G complained about having to pay another fee and was unhappy that 
letters for his main account hadnt been received by him  particularly as he said hed asked 
for correspondence to be emailed to him. Metro didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G and concluded Mr Gs complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. In summary, they said: 
There was no evidence Mr G had requested communication via email only and the 
investigator noted that Metros reversion letters were automated and so could not be 
emailed. The investigator explained our service could not insist on Metro changing 
any processes. 
There were two separate mortgage products and the paperwork showed two different 
offers for borrowing  the first for £207,000 in 2015 and the additional borrowing for 
£50,000 in 2017. The investigator said these two borrowing arrangements were 
separate  in particular they noted the main mortgage was arranged on an interest 
only basis and the additional borrowing was on a repayment basis. 
Metros decision to refund the £499 arrangement fee in 2017 didnt have any bearing 
on considerations now as there was no obligation for Metro to waive the fee again, 
and the available documentation showed fees had been made clear at the 
appropriate times.  
Mr G hadnt raised any concerns about his correspondence address during the call 
with Metro on 7 July 2019. And it was reasonable to expect Mr G would have let 
Metro know if hed moved home. At no point was Mr G given any advice by Metro about his mortgage. So there was 
no obligation for Metro to have assessed Mr Gs circumstances in relation to the buy-
to-let mortgage. 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, Mr G said:
 
He had visited the FCAs (the Financial Conduct Authority) website and in particular, 
said Metro should be treating their customers fairly and providing clear information to 
their customers. 
He hadnt raised any issues about the address during the call on 7 July 2019 as he 
was more concerned with getting the mortgage product switched at that time and it 
was his intention to complain later, as he had done in 2017 when he hadnt changed 
the interest rate in time. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 requires information to be prominent and brought to 
the consumers attention. He said these fees were unexpected and he was never told 
about paying fees twice or that the previous waiver had been a one off. Mr G also 
said fees were not explained to him when he took out the borrowing or subsequent 
borrowing and no advice was available on the website either. 
The language used around his borrowing has been confusing in terms of having 
separate mortgages. And the communications with him should be clear. 
One of the Metro staff members he spoke to later on (during the complaints process) 
had told him he should have been advised to combine the two loans to avoid 
additional fees for the future. And he should have been told this before to know what 
his options were so he could make an informed decision. 
Our investigator explained he was unable to change his conclusions, but did confirm with 
Metro that there were no further call recordings available (as Mr G had requested be 
checked) and confirmed that Metro could look at waiving fees if there was more than one 
product renewal close together, but this was outside of Metros normal process so there was 
no guarantee this would happen. 
As our investigator was unable to reach a resolution for Mr G the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. That is, I dont think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld.
 
I think its firstly important to consider Metros obligations here  particularly as Mr G has, 
more recently, focused much more on his point that Metro should have told him all his 
options to do with his mortgage at the point of changing his mortgage interest rates. He says 
that had they done so, then he would have acted differently. And he has submitted much 
about how, in accordance with the FCAs principles, Metro should have provided clear 
information and treated him fairly.  
It may help Mr G to note that buy-to-let mortgages are not regulated by the FCA so the 
obligations set out by the FCA for lenders in respect of residential mortgages do not apply 
here. Metros literature also confirms that buy-to-let mortgages are not regulated.That said, our role here is to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint and Ive carefully considered the available paperwork and Mr Gs interactions 
with Metro in relation to Mr Gs mortgage. 
Ive noted that Mr G was provided with mortgage paperwork, including mortgage offer 
documents, terms and conditions and access to the tariff of charges when he arranged the 
different loans in 2015 and 2017. And none of the paperwork Ive seen suggests that these 
two loans would be or should be treated as one.  
The mortgage terms and conditions applicable at the time of Mr G arranging his additional 
borrowing explain that a mortgage account is the account Metro keeps for recording the 
amount Mr G would owe to Metro and this would be adjusted for any further borrowing.
 
The terms explain a first advance is made on the security of the mortgage, and a further 
advance means any amount Metro lends under the mortgage after the first advance. The 
terms also describe a mortgage sub-account, meaning any part of the mortgage account 
which records the different types of loan under the mortgage e.g. if there is more than one 
loan part, due to the mortgage being part interest only and part repayment, then sub 
accounts will be created for each loan part.
 
Mr G arranged additional borrowing of £50,000 on separate terms to that of the first advance 
and so I dont think Metro did anything wrong in setting up a separate loan. I also dont think 
this is unusual practice and the mortgage offer for the further advance also included some 
details of the first advance and how this would work in terms of Mr Gs monthly payments.
 
The available paperwork also shows that the fees applicable for each loan were made clear 
to Mr G. So I dont agree that he wasnt made aware of what would be payable or that there 
were two separate loans. 
Mr G has referred to the previous fee that Metro waived. However, there was no requirement 
for Metro to do this. It was a decision they took at the time and as our investigator has 
already explained, this is something Metro can choose to do, but they dont have to. So 
again, as the fees were made clear I dont think Metro has done anything wrong here or 
been unfair to Mr G.
 
Ive considered what Mr G has said about being made aware of his options  that is, he 
believes he should have been told about the possibility of creating one loan in order to avoid 
paying two separate arrangement (product) fees. 
As our investigator explained, Metro didnt give any advice to Mr G when he looked at 
changing the mortgage product (switching mortgage interest rates) on either of his loans. So 
Metro didnt have to make any overall assessment about Mr Gs circumstances or make any 
recommendation. 
Mr G arranged both switches in 2019 through the online portal  so he chose those interest 
rates himself. The letters sent to Mr G letting him know when the respective mortgage 
products were due to end also let him know that he could seek help from the mortgage team 
or approach a broker. As Mr G had originally applied for his mortgage with Metro through a 
broker and, as he has said, he already had experience with other mortgages, I think its 
reasonable to say he would have known where he could obtain advice from if he wasnt sure 
about any of his mortgage arrangements. 
I therefore dont think Metro has done anything wrong here  Ive not seen anything to 
suggest they gave him any advice either.
 Ive considered what Mr G has said about what the Metro staff member later told him, but no 
guarantees were given in this call and I think its fair to say reviewing mortgage 
arrangements are not always straightforward or as simple as saying two loans can be 
consolidated. For starters, in Mr Gs case, one loan was arranged on a repayment basis and 
the other on an interest only basis. Im mindful that changing the way in which the loan would 
be repaid would affect the monthly mortgage payment, which with a buy-to-let mortgage 
could then affect the rental yield and whether this would meet lending criteria.
 
Mr G said hed asked to have correspondence sent to him by email. Unfortunately Metro 
doesnt offer this service with their mortgage accounts as reversion letters are automated. As 
our investigator explained, it is not for our service to say how Metro should carry out their 
processes. 
Ive also not seen anything to support that Mr G requested letters for his mortgage account 
to be sent by email. The reversion letters Ive seen, and other correspondence relating to the 
mortgage have all been correctly addressed. And its difficult to say Metro has done anything 
wrong here if they werent made aware that Mr G had changed his address. 
From the correspondence Ive seen I think Mr G was given enough notice to change his 
respective mortgage products in time. All the information available  including that on the 
portal  explains that any request to change interest rates needs to be done, at the latest, 10 
days prior to the end of the existing rate. Mr G would also have had access to his mortgage 
account information online. So I dont think Metro needs to back date the interest rate 
change on either loan. 
Overall Ive not seen enough to say that Metro has acted unfairly towards Mr G, or not been 
clear about the fees associated with his loans. Im aware Mr G chose to fix the mortgage 
interest rates for both loans over five years. At the end of those respective periods, it will be 
up to Mr G to decide what he wants to do next and he should seek appropriate advice if he is 
unsure what to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman