DRN-3737228
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have irresponsibly lent to him.
Mr P is represented by his father in law in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mr P himself.
What happened
Mr P says that on 15 March 2021, he successfully applied for an unsecured loan with HSBC
for £4,500. On 17 March he successfully applied for a top up for the loan for £1,000. The
following day he successfully applied for another top up for the loan for £3,000. So he was
approved for £8,500 in total over the space of four days.
Mr P applied for another HSBC loan on 20 March 2021. The application was approved for
£12,000. Mr P complained that HSBC irresponsibly lent to him as this was the fourth loan
that HSBC approved for him over a six day period. He asked HSBC to write off the £12,000
loan and the accrued interest.
HSBC did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. They said that Mr P was approved for the personal
loans he applied online for, subject to a credit search and the information provided in his
application. They said it was ultimately Mr Ps decision to apply for the amount of lending he
applied for in a short period of time. They also noted Mr Ps regular salary which was
credited into his HSBC current account. Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He said
he was using the money to gamble and HSBC shouldve seen there was an excessive
amount of transactions from his account to a third party current account he held which he
would gamble from.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said that she considered whether
HSBCs decision wouldve been any different if, instead of applying for the two top-up loans,
Mr P applied for a larger loan initially of £8,500. But she still thought that HSBC wouldve
granted him this loan, based on the checks they completed at the time. She said that there
wasnt any evidence from the business own records, the external checks they completed 
and Mr Ps credit report that the loan wouldve been unaffordable for Mr P as he had £7,850
in a savings account before any lending decisions took place.
Our investigator said Mr P would've been left with roughly £1,600 per month disposable
income, after making his monthly loan repayments, credit card repayments, rent and car
insurance payments. So she thought both the loans were affordable for Mr P. She said that
while she agreed that there were excessive amounts of transactions on Mr Ps bank
account, and the timing of the transfers is outside of the norm, HSBC couldnt reasonably
have known Mr P was transferring money to his third party account for online gambling.
Mr P asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He made a number of points. In
summary, he said that the £12,000 loan he applied for should have been declined because
of not only the number of times he sought to increase his borrowings during 15-20 March
2021, but also the evidence of his outgoings on the same dates on his HSBC bank
statements. He said there were a total of 75 transactions on his HSBC current account to his
third party current account for sums between £30-£300 while at the same time he had been
approved for two top ups and a loan for £12,000.
Mr P said this shouldve been spotted by HSBC prior to his application on 20 March and they
shouldve asked him what the payments were for, especially as they had lent him a total of
£8,500 over the previous week for wedding expenses. He says this should have been clear
that the activity indicated online gaming and his third party current account statements show
this is the case.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Before agreeing to approve the credit to Mr P, HSBC needed to make proportionate checks
to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks HSBC have done and
whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
HSBC said that Mr Ps applications showed a gross annual salary of £43,000, he had a fixed
cost of £50 a month for rent and £95 for car insurance and he was living with parents. They
said they looked at the application data as well as gathering external data from credit
reference agencies and any information they held on existing accounts with them. Mr P
provided us with his credit file. From this information I can see he had a credit limit on a
credit card elsewhere of £750. But the credit file also shows he defaulted on a credit
agreement in 2018, but this debt was satisfied in 2019.
It may help to explain here that, while information like a default on someones credit file may
often mean theyre not granted further credit  they dont automatically mean that a lender
wont offer borrowing. Here, HSBC considered the information that Mr P had on his credit
history and still made a decision to lend which, in the circumstances, I think was reasonable.
I say this because this information is not all that HSBC had access to. Mr P had a bank
account with HSBC which his wages were being paid into. He also had a savings account
with them. So HSBC would have a lot of information to consider whether the loans would be
affordable and sustainable at the time of Mr Ps applications.
They would have been able to see that on average, Mr P had a net income of approximately
£2,750 a month (based on 1 December 2020-28 February 2021 average employment
income crediting Mr Ps account). This would be consistent with the income Mr P declared
on his application. So it appears HSBC carried out sufficient checks on his income. And they
would have also seen that Mr P saved a lot of this money.
Mr Ps savings account shows that on 1 September 2020, just over six months prior to
applying for the loans, he had a savings balance of £5,710 in a savings account with HSBC.
By 1 October, he increased this amount by £1,190. The following month he saved an extra
£1,280. Between 1 October-1 November, he increased his savings by £1,194 and then by£1,424 between 1 December and 1 January. The following month was an increase of £141
and in the month before Mr P applied for his loans he increased the savings balance by
£666 to £11,607.
So it would appear as if Mr P would have the disposable monthly income to pay the monthly
repayment for all of the loans he applied for with HSBC. I say this as he had often been
paying more than the total of the loan monthly repayments (£460.56 + £568.14 = £1,028.70)
into his savings account each month. And all of the previous seven months there had been
an increase in the previous balance.
Ive also considered that during March 2021, Mr P has made several transactions out of this
account. And his balance has fluctuated a lot. While the balance at 1 March 2021 was
£11,602.40 and at the time of the first loan application his balance had reduced to £7,850 at
the beginning of 15 March, he had transferred this money to his HSBC current account.
From here, it appears that as Mr P has noted, he made multiple transfers to a third party
account.
But Im not persuaded that this should have concerned HSBC. I say this as it would not be
unusual for a customer to have an external account with a third party bank which they may
transfer money across to. There could be a number of reasons why a customer may make
several transactions in a short period of time for varying amounts. So Im not persuaded that
it would have been proportionate for HSBC to contact Mr P based on the number of
transactions which left his account. I say this as the purpose of the first loan was for annual
commitments (on the HSBC application), which Mr P told us this was for a wedding, so
customers may purchase items on one card and transfer the money across for that purchase
from a different bank.
From Mr Ps own current account, apart from occasional lottery transactions, there does not
appear to be any payments to online gaming companies. So it would not be reasonable for
HSBC to assume thats what he was spending the loan money on, or why he was
transferring out of his account so frequently, especially as the value of some of these
transactions were up to £300 at a time.
Mr P also appeared to have a healthy disposable income. Even after the outgoings on his
application and all of the monthly loan repayments were taken into account, he still had
several hundreds of pounds which werent committed to fixed outgoings. HSBC had
completed an affordability assessment which used a combination of what Mr P told them he
had for expenses and modelling. So for example, while Mr P told HSBC on his application
that he had £50 a month for rent, HSBC estimated Mr P would pay £400 a month for a
property payment. The affordability assessment HSBC completed showed that Mr P would
have £506 disposable income each month after he had paid his fixed outgoings (including
his external credit card) and the loan repayments for the loans he took out with HSBC. But
they also had access to see his actual outgoings on his HSBC current account.
Ive considered the close proximity of the loans that Mr P has taken out including the top
ups. Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr P has that this should have concerned HSBC,
and I agree that this should have concerned them. But Im not persuaded that HSBC should
have declined Mr Ps second loan (or the top ups to the original loan) based on the close
proximity of the loans and Ill explain why.
It would not be uncommon for someone to take out a loan and then realise that they hadnt
borrowed enough to meet the purpose of the loan. Mr P has said that the £8,500 was for
wedding expenses. So if this is what Mr P would have told HSBC the loans were for, then it
would not be unusual for wedding expenses to increase within a short period of time as
people take into account different planning stages of a wedding.The purpose of the second loan (£12,000) was recorded as being for a motor vehicle. So
this would appear to be unrelated to the original loan and the top ups for the original loan of
annual commitments. £12,000 for a motor vehicle would not seem to be unrealistic and Im
not persuaded that this should have prompted HSBC to think that this money would be used
for another reason  even if Mr P had taken the original loan and topped it up twice within a
number of days. So Im persuaded that HSBC gave consideration to the first loan and top
ups, and they were able to see how Mr P was managing his accounts with themselves,
which he still had a large amount of savings relative to the loan he was applying for and
apparent disposable income (based on what Ive previously said) and that is why they
approved the second loan of £12,000.
Ive also considered that the total amount of the loans which HSBC approved within the six
day period was £20,500. Im not persuaded that the total amount would have appeared
unreasonable for the purposes Mr P said he was using the money for, and HSBCs website
shows that a customer could be approved for a loan up to £25,000 on their website.
Ive also considered that Mr P tried to apply for other loans with HSBC after the £12,000
loan. I can see that on 23 March 2021, he tried to increase the £8,500 loan to £14,500. And
on 25 March, he tried to increase the £12,000 loan to £18,500. But HSBC declined the
applications. Im persuaded that this shows that HSBC were taking a further look at his
finances. I say this as they deemed the existing total HSBC borrowing of £20,500 affordable
for Mr P, but when he attempted to increase his borrowings they did not feel he had the
affordability to do so and were conscious of the multiple applications, so they declined these
attempts to obtain more borrowing. They also declined his application to increase his
overdraft to £2,500.
Im sorry to hear about the financial difficulty which Mr P has found himself in. But for the
reasons Ive already given, Im not persuaded that HSBC could have anticipated he would
have used the loan funds for a purpose other than what he told them based on the healthy
disposable income he had at the time of all of the approved applications, no apparent signs
of financial difficulties at the time of his applications, the amount he had been able to save
prior to being accepted for the initial loan and how he generally managed his accounts with
HSBC. So it follows I dont intend to ask HSBC to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC responded to the provisional decision and they said there was nothing 
further they wanted to add to the provisional decision. Mr P accepted the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman