DRN-1596071
 
The complaint
Miss R complains shes been a victim of identify fraud as her Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
Tesco credit card has been used without her knowledge.
What happened
Miss R took out a credit card with Tesco in 2011. In 2019, she contacted Tesco to say she 
hadnt spent on the credit card and the £9,000 outstanding balance had been because she 
had been a victim of identity fraud. She believes she has been controlled by black magic and 
her identity stolen to make the transactions. Miss R asked for the balance to be written off 
and all payments made to the account to be refunded.
Tesco were given a letter by Miss Rs community mental health nurse. This explained that 
nearly 15 years ago, Miss R was diagnosed with Schizophrenia, which is a severe and 
enduring mental illness and impacts upon her thoughts, feelings and behaviour. It went onto 
explain the impact this has on the way Miss R manages her finances and the large amount 
of debt shes run up on her credit card. 
After careful consideration of what Miss Rs nurse said, Tesco agreed to write off the 
balance of her account. But they didnt agree to refund all the payments made towards the 
repayment of the debt.
One of our investigators considered Miss Rs complaint but he didnt think Tesco needed to 
do any more than they had already. This was because he thought it was clear Miss R was 
responsible for the spending on the card and had made the repayments towards the credit 
card herself. Miss R was unhappy with the outcome and so the case has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account what Miss Rs said and what the medical evidence says. I dont doubt 
she spent the money on the card herself. But its clear that  at least some of the time  she 
did so as a result of her illness rather than because there were goods or services she 
particularly wanted or needed to buy.
At the same time, theres no evidence Tesco knew about this. And they only could have 
been expected to take action if they knew. As soon as Tesco knew, they took the decision to 
write off the balance so that Miss R wouldnt have to make any more payments and closed 
the card to make sure this doesnt happen again.
But until Tesco knew there was a problem there was nothing it could have been expected to 
do. And theres no doubt Miss R did spend the money, including making balance transfers to 
the card  and make repayments towards the balance owed. Now it knows its taken action. Thats fair, but if theres no evidence she was put in financial difficulty  and she was 
managing the debt through actively making payments each month, Tesco couldnt have 
known there was a problem and couldnt have been expected to take action earlier. 
What Ill be deciding is whether Tesco should refund Miss R all the payments shes made 
towards the credit card since 2011. Ive thought about what Miss Rs community mental 
health nurse said in her letter. The nurse details:
Ms R experiences both hallucinations and delusions as symptoms of her illness and this has 
led her to run up large amounts of debt on her credit card. Ms R reports that the voices she 
hears command her to buy things and her illness can affect her ability to make wise 
decisions around her finances. I can also confirm that the items that Ms R has purchased 
over the previous months remain in their bags and packaging, unused and piled up within 
her flat.
I can confirm that the belief that her identity has been stolen is in line with her delusional 
beliefs caused by her mental illness and that although you and I know this not to be true, it is 
her genuine and longstanding belief, driven by her psychosis, that she is controlled by 
external forces.
I cant imagine what it must be like for Miss R on a daily basis, having to live with this illness 
 it must be extremely difficult, and at times frightening. Tesco have already acknowledged 
the difficulty Miss Rs illness has on her ability to make decisions due to her beliefs. But Im 
not persuaded Miss Rs illness also impacted the ability she had to make repayments 
towards the debt she owed on the credit card. I say this because the repayment of a debt 
seems more of a conscious and wise decision. Also, I cant disregard that Miss R has a lot of 
goods in her possession that shes purchased using the credit card, of which the balance 
has now been written off.
Overall, I havent seen enough evidence to show Miss Rs illness impacted the repayments 
that were made towards the debt. So I wont be asking Tesco to refund the payments Miss R 
made towards the credit card debt as Tesco has acted fairly in what its offered to do and 
made sure it wont happen again.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Helen Giles
Ombudsman