DRN-2015584
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about what happened when he tried to open a savings account for his child 
with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 What happened
Mr R wanted to open a savings account for his very young child. He told us he got in touch 
with Barclays to ask about the interest rate on its account after the first 12 months, and 
whether the account could be opened by video call. Mr R was initially told on the phone 
that the savings team couldnt give him any further advice. He insisted on speaking to that 
team, and was told the interest rate would track Bank of England rates after the first 12 
months.
The team member said that Mr R could only open the account in a branch. Mr R said he 
was also told specifically that he needed to take the baby to the branch to open this 
account. He was told if he went to a specific branch they could open the account, and 
should be able to do so the same day.
Mr R went into the branch hed been told to visit. But the branch staff said there were no 
advisors there who could help him. They said that telephone staff shouldve known this. He 
shouldve been told to go to a different branch.
Mr R complained. He said he was then given different information about the interest rate 
after 12 months. He found out he hadnt needed to bring his child. He could, in fact, have 
opened the account in a branch just by bringing the childs birth certificate, or through a 
video appointment. This branch booked an appointment for him at a different branch, 
which could open the account.
Mr R said that it took Barclays some months to respond to his complaint. When it did, it 
offered him £200, which he didnt think was anywhere near enough for what went wrong. 
So he complained to our service.
Barclays agreed that Mr R had received poor service on the call he made about opening 
the Childrens Regular Saver account. It didnt feel it had advised him to take his child into
branch, and said it hadnt booked a specific appointment for him. But it accepted it did 
suggest he might want to walk in to open an account. Barclays said it wouldnt offer more
than £200, but it said this offer was still open to him.
Our investigator said Barclays had accepted it had made mistakes, and apologised. So he 
was only looking at whether the compensation Barclays had offered was fair. He thought 
it was. He appreciated that Mr R had received incorrect information, and had a wasted 
journey to branch. But he wasnt persuaded that the impact on Mr R warranted further 
compensation.
Mr R didnt agree. He mentioned previous issues hed experienced with poor customer 
service from Barclays. Mr R didnt think it was right for us to just focus on his existing 
complaint. Mr R said he was told to bring the baby into the branch, and wanted us to listen 
to the relevant call so we could hear this. Mr R wanted his complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman.
Our investigator asked Barclays to send the relevant call to us. Barclays said it planned to 
send us a large number of calls. It then sent us one call, which wasnt the call our 
investigator asked for. Barclays then contacted us to say that it was happy for this case to 
go to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt think Barclays 
needed to pay more than it had already offered. This is what I said then: 
Having read Mr Rs complaint carefully, its clear that his existing complaint follows 
on from a number of previous problems with the bank. But this complaint is only 
about what happened when he asked Barclays about opening an account for his 
child. I can bear in mind that Mr R has had previous difficulties with the customer 
service that Barclays has provided, when considering this complaint. But I cant also 
compensate him for those issues as part of this case.
Mr R wanted us to listen to a particular call, where he was told he had to take his 
baby into the branch with him to open the account. Our investigator said hed 
factored the inconvenience of this into his view, but Mr R still wanted us to look into 
this further. Our investigator asked Barclays for this call in February 2020. It wasnt 
provided then, and Barclays has asked us to go ahead with a final decision on this 
complaint.
Sending the wrong call may have been an oversight by Barclays. But I dont think it 
would be reasonable now to delay resolving this complaint still further, by repeating 
this request. I think its unlikely that Mr R wouldve chosen to take his very young 
child into the branch with him if he hadnt been given the impression that this was 
necessary. So I think its more likely than not that this was said to Mr R. And, like 
our investigator, Ive factored in the inconvenience of this.
Even if Mr R hadnt been told to take his child into the branch, I note that a visit to 
a branch doesnt actually seem to have been necessary at all. Barclays staff later 
said that the bank should have been able to assist him to apply through a video 
appointment.
As our investigator noted, Mr R has been provided with poor customer service. Whilst 
it has sought to dispute some of the details of this, Barclays hasnt disputed that 
overall conclusion. So, like our investigator, I have to think about whether Barclays 
has done enough to make up for that.
I understand that Mr R has had a very frustrating experience. And I appreciate 
thats been compounded by his previous experiences, as well as the length of time 
that Barclays has taken to deal with his complaint. But I still think that the amount of 
compensation that Barclays offered Mr R does provide a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. I know Mr R would like Barclays to pay significantly 
more. But I dont think it would be consistent with awards Ive made in other cases 
if I asked Barclays to do that.
I know Mr R will be disappointed but I dont think that Barclays has to pay him more 
than the £200 it offered him. I understand that wasnt paid at the time, so I will award 
that now. But Ill allow Barclays to offset any payment its made for this complaint in 
my award, in case it has paid Mr R the money it offered in the intervening time.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Barclays replied to say that it was concerned we hadnt contacted it to ask for different call 
recordings, but would otherwise accept the provisional decision. Mr R replied to disagree. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has expressed concerns that our service didnt have call recordings that it says it 
sent to us. I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt further delay this case by 
requesting one particular recording again. I note that Barclays hasnt sent the call through 
now, and it hasnt contested my finding on the content of the relevant call. I continue to think 
that I can decide this case fairly without the call recording requested.
Mr R disagreed with my provisional decision. He said Barclays shouldnt just be categorising 
its catalogue of errors as poor service. He said he felt like Barclays was trying to cover the 
extent of its mistakes. He said poor service had been received from the savings and 
complaints teams. And this wasnt a one-off incident. So he didnt think £200 was enough 
compensation.
He said that my provisional decision didnt acknowledge his discussion with a member of 
branch staff, who acknowledged that hed been given wrong information and put him right. 
That staff member told him that all this information was available for Barclays agents, so it 
shouldve been given to him in the first place. Mr R asked why these notes werent 
mentioned, as he thought they were a crucial piece of evidence. He wanted to know if Id 
seen them.
Mr R said Barclays had failed to respond to his complaint in writing within eight weeks, as its 
required to do. He said this meant he was left chasing Barclays, costing him further time and 
emotional distress. He thought this should be considered in assessing compensation.
Mr R also said the complaints team hadnt treated him fairly. He said that the team had 
denied it could see notes from the above-mentioned member of staff, then said that the call 
had been listened to, and didnt support what he said. And Mr R said that Barclays couldnt 
produce this evidence when asked. He thought that its failure to produce evidence should 
form a fundamental part of his complaint when awarding compensation.
Id like to set out what I can consider, when Im thinking about compensation. 
Our service isnt a regulator. We arent here to punish banks. I am able to award 
compensation based on an assessment of how an issue has affected the complainant. So I 
wouldnt, for instance, award extra compensation in this case because Mr R considers that 
Barclays hasnt cooperated with our investigation.  
I explained in my provisional decision that I could bear in mind that Mr R has had previous 
difficulties with the customer service that Barclays has provided, when considering this 
complaint. And I did that when I reached my provisional decision. But it remains the case 
that I cant also compensate him for those issues as part of this complaint.
Mr R also wanted me to consider how the complaints team had treated him when he brought 
this complaint. But our service isnt able to consider separate complaints which are about 
how a business has handled a complaint. Complaints handling itself isnt a regulated activity, 
so its not within our jurisdiction. When considering this case, Ive taken into account, as far 
as I am able to do so, Mr Rs treatment by Barclays when he made his complaint. Mr R also said that I hadnt acknowledged the conversation that he had in branch, which 
revealed that he didnt need to be there at all, and had been given wrong information. I did 
refer to this conversation, in order to highlight what I thought to be an important point not 
mentioned elsewhere, which was that he could have opened this account through a video 
appointment. He didnt need to be there at all. 
I didnt set down in my findings all the details of the conversation Mr R had in branch. Our 
service provides an informal dispute resolution service, and as part of that, we dont always 
record in our decisions every detail thats been raised with us. But we do consider everything 
thats said to us. And Id like to reassure Mr R that I have considered carefully everything he 
told us about. 
Mr R also wanted to know if Id asked Barclays for its call centre notes, so I could see what 
Barclays had failed to tell Mr R over the phone. I havent done that. I dont think I need to see 
those, because I accepted that the information given to Mr R was wrong. 
I know Mr R feels strongly that the amount Barclays has offered isnt enough for what has 
gone wrong in this case. But I still think that it is, and that it wouldnt be consistent with 
awards Ive made in other cases if I asked Barclays to pay significantly more. 
Ill now make the award I originally proposed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr R £200 in compensation. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC can offset against this payment any award of compensation it has 
already made for this specific complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman