DRN-2924113
The complaint
Mr L complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd has treated him unfairly by continuing to deduct 
life assurance premiums from his pension contributions after he had passed his initially 
selected retirement age. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but I include an extract from it below. I said;
Mr L held pension savings with Zurich. He took out a mortgage in 1993, and took a 
further advance on that lending in 1997. The lender required Mr L to take life cover to 
protect the loan in the event of his death. Mr L took out that life cover by means of a 
pension term assurance plan that was linked to his pension plan with Zurich. It 
doesnt appear that Mr L is in anyway unhappy with the advice he was given to effect 
his life cover by those means.
Mr Ls mortgage was due to end at the same time as his selected normal retirement 
date for his personal pension  at age 65. So Mr L understood that the life cover, that 
was assigned to the mortgage lender, would cease when his mortgage was repaid. 
However when Mr L turned 65 in 2011 he decided not to take his retirement benefits 
from Zurich and his selected retirement age was changed to 75. He continued 
making monthly contributions to his pension savings.
In 2019 Zurich wrote to Mr L to warn him that the contributions he was making to his 
pension each month would shortly become insufficient to cover the life assurance 
premiums that were payable. Mr L says that he was surprised to find the life cover 
was still active and complained to Zurich that it had not been cancelled at age 65 as 
he had understood it would be.
Zurich looked into Mr Ls complaint. It explained how the life cover premiums were 
calculated  something I will discuss later in this decision. And it told him that, when 
he decided to change his selected retirement age, Zurich would have been unable to 
cancel the life cover without a specific instruction to do so from Mr L. But Zurich 
accepted that it could have provided clearer information to Mr L about how the 
monthly premiums were calculated. So, as a gesture of goodwill, it refunded the 
excess monthly charges that Mr L had paid since 2011 amounting to £8,668.36. And 
it added interest to those refunded amounts at a rate of Bank of England base rate 
plus 1%.
I think that in the first instance I should consider the sale of the life cover to Mr L. It 
seems that, at the insistence of his mortgage lender, he was required to take some 
life cover in 1993, and again in 1997. I understand that, at that time, he already held 
pension savings with Zurich. And taking life cover as part of his pension plan was, at 
that time, a cost- effective solution given the tax relief that was provided on his 
premiums. So I dont think taking this cover was an unreasonable recommendation 
for Mr L to follow.
Zurich has explained to Mr L how his premiums were calculated, but I am 
summarising here, in very simple terms, my understanding. Generally the cost of life 
cover increases with the age of the consumer  you are more likely to die as you get 
older. But, Zurich provides a single monthly cost to a consumer over the length of the 
policy. So, based on advice from its actuaries Zurich estimates the overall cost and 
divides that over the length of the plan. So in the early years not all the premiums are 
used to provide the life cover  part of the premiums form a reserve fund that is 
used in the later years when normal premiums exceed those being charged.
But over the years, with changes in the assumptions the actuaries might use when 
considering mortality, the reserve fund that has been built up might not be entirely 
used. So any excess would be added to the pension savings and shown in any 
valuations that were produced. That is what happened in Mr Ls situation  there was 
part of the reserve still in place when he reached his selected retirement age in 2011 
 and indeed when he made his complaint in 2019.
 When Mr L first took the life cover it was scheduled to run until his selected 
retirement age of 65 years. Zurich says it wrote to Mr L in 2010 and explained that, 
although he was approaching the selected retirement age, he would be able to 
continue his pension plan, and that is the approach it would take if he didnt get back 
in touch. Mr L reached age 65 in 2011, and decided to not take his retirement 
benefits immediately. So a new selected retirement age of 75 was added to the plan.
Zurich has told Mr L that its terms and conditions meant it would not be able to 
cancel the life cover unless it received confirmation from Mr L. So it says it has been 
correct that the life cover continued past the initially selected retirement age of 65.
I have reviewed a copy of the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ls life cover  in 
those T&Cs it is called the Personal Life Plan. Zurich has confirmed that the terms 
I am quoting below are those applicable to Mr Ls policy. The relevant terms are as 
follows;
10 CONTINUATION PAST SELECTED RETIREMENT AGE
(1) The policyholder may, by Notice received by the Company not later than 
the day prior to that on which the Policyholder attains the Selected 
Retirement Age, elect to extend the term of this Plan. The election will 
take effect on the day the Policyholder attains the Selected Retirement 
Age.
(2) The term of the Plan will be extended so that it will expire on the date 
shown in the Notice as the new Selected Retirement Age and the 
Selected Retirement Age will be amended accordingly.
(3) This option may not be exercised so that the Selected Retirement Age is 
greater than 75 years.
Zurich has confirmed that it didnt receive any instruction from Mr L asking that the 
term of his Personal Life Plan be extended  or that the plan be closed. But, under a 
strict application of the above terms, I think it would be reasonable to conclude that 
the cover should have ceased when he reached his original selected retirement age.
Zurich has said that the terms and conditions applicable to this plan were written 
more than thirty years ago, and some of the more formal notification methods might 
not be appropriate today. It says that the retirement age selected by a consumer might change due to a change in their circumstances so it is reasonable to offer 
extensions to the plans. It says that Mr L has benefitted from the cover over the past 
ten years. And it says that it has been contacted by Mr Ls financial advisor about the 
plan on a number of occasions since 2011 so it thinks Mr L was aware of the cover 
continuing.
I cannot reasonably conclude that I should simply disregard the terms and conditions 
given their age  if Zurich doesnt think the terms are appropriate now, it should look 
to amend them. And I think the terms quoted above acknowledge that a consumer 
might change their plans  but as Ive already said, the expectation in the terms is 
that the plans remain unchanged unless there is a formal notification to the contrary.
I have looked at the evidence that Zurich has sent us about the conversations it had 
with Mr Ls financial advisor. Given the time that has passed, that information is 
limited. But I accept that it appears to show some enquiries from Mr Ls financial 
advisor about his pension plan and the life cover. But without any further context, 
either in terms of the questions that were posed, or the information that was given, 
I cannot reasonably conclude those show that Mr L was aware of the life cover 
continuing, and that he chose to leave it in place.
So taking everything into account I dont currently think it was reasonable for Zurich 
to extend the term of the Personal Life Plan past Mr Ls original selected retirement 
age in 2011 without a specific request from him for the cover to continue. So 
I currently think that the complaint should be upheld and Zurich needs to pay Mr L 
some compensation.
As I said earlier, Zurich has already refunded to Mr L some of the premiums he has 
paid since 2011. My understanding is that the refund that has been made is 
essentially the amount that Zurich has drawn from the reserve fund to top up Mr Ls 
normal contributions to account for their increase due to his increased age. But I find 
the compensation that Zurich has paid to Mr L to be insufficient on two fronts.
As well as the amounts taken from the reserve fund, Zurich has continued to use part 
of Mr Ls normal monthly pension contribution to pay for the life cover. Mr L has told 
us that he anticipated the whole monthly contribution would be used, from age 65, to 
increase the value of his pension savings when he reached 75 years. I think what 
Mr L has said is plausible, and given what Ive provisionally decided about Zurich 
needing to end the plan when Mr L reached 65 years, I think those base contributions 
should be refunded too.
Zurich has added interest to the refund it has paid at the rate of Bank of England 
base rate plus 1%. But it has deducted income tax from that interest in line with 
HMRC guidance. If Zurich had not used Mr Ls pension contributions to pay for the 
life cover, those contributions would have benefitted from investment growth in line 
with his other pension savings. And that growth, since it was within his pension, 
wouldnt have been subject to income tax. So I currently think that needs to be 
accounted for in the compensation that Zurich pays to Mr L. 
I invited Mr L and Zurich to provide me with any further comments or evidence in response 
to my provisional decision. Mr L has accepted my provisional findings and provided some 
further information about how any compensation might best be paid. Zurich doesnt agree 
with my provisional decision. Although I am only summarising here what Zurich has said, 
I want to confirm that I have read, and carefully considered, Zurichs entire response.
Zurich has reiterated that it might not be appropriate to rely on terms and conditions that were written over 30 years before. It thinks that it might present a moral hazard for life cover 
to be cancelled without prior notice when a policyholder reaches their selected retirement 
age. It says that many customers will have benefitted from its approach to extend the cover 
in line with any extensions to the selected retirement age.
Zurich believes that Mr L was fully aware that the life cover remained on his plan past his 
selected retirement age. It says that information was shown on the annual statements he 
was sent. And that the three financial advisors attached to the plan at various times would 
have been aware of, and no doubt discussed with Mr L, the ongoing life cover. Zurich says 
that it might be reasonable to consider that Mr Ls complaint has been made too late under 
the regulators rules.
Zurich says that even after its final response on the complaint Mr L hasnt cancelled the life 
cover. So it thinks the complaint should be interpreted as relating to the cost of the life cover 
rather than its continuation past the selected retirement age. It acknowledges that the cost of 
the cover hasnt always been clear and thinks that the redress it has already paid to Mr L is 
appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think I should first address the comment by Zurich that it might be reasonable to consider 
Mr Ls complaint as having been made too late under the regulators rules. As Zurich will be 
aware, I am not required to decide on the timing of a complaint if the business consents to 
the complaint being considered regardless. I have seen that in June 2020 Zurich sent us its 
file on the complaint and said, By providing the attached information, we are giving consent 
to the Service to consider the complaint under the 6/3 year rule. 
So I am satisfied I need not offer any further analysis on the timing of Mr Ls complaint and 
that it is one that we should deal with.
As Zurich has acknowledged, the complaint Mr L has made does not relate to him trying to 
claim on life cover that has been cancelled. So it would be unhelpful, and inappropriate, for 
me to look at his complaint in that way. As I explained in my provisional decision, the terms 
and conditions of his policy were clear  life cover would be cancelled when he reached his 
selected retirement age unless he elected for it to be extended. I dont think the age of those 
terms has any great relevance here. They were the terms applicable at that time, and so 
should be the terms on which I judge this complaint.
Given that I have concluded the life cover should have been cancelled it logically follows that 
Zurich should be expected to pay some compensation to Mr L. But I also think it reasonable 
that Zurich might expect Mr L to mitigate some of that loss should he have been aware of the 
continuation of the life cover. I have thought about this issue carefully.
I havent seen anything that would definitively confirm that Mr L was aware that the cover 
had continued. I accept that the annual statements Zurich issued did refer to life cover. But 
I have no way of knowing whether or not Mr L read those statements in sufficient detail to 
understand the cover remained. I think it is important here, that I am not considering, as 
I might when looking at the timing of a complaint, whether or not Mr L ought to have read 
that information. I am simply forming an opinion of what he actually did. And I think that issue is further complicated by Zurichs admission that its disclosure of the 
cost of the cover was insufficient. I could envisage a situation where it would be reasonable 
for a consumer to be content with the cover continuing at an assumed cost  but not when 
the full cost was disclosed. I am not making any finding that is what happened here, but it 
does underline the difficulties I would face in making a finding that Mr L chose to retain the 
life cover.
I have also thought about what Zurich has said about Mr L not cancelling the cover at the 
time he made his complaint. But I am guided by the letter Mr L sent to us at the outset of our 
investigation. In that letter he said that he was still fearfully contributing to the fund on a 
monthly basis. And he went onto explain that he was wary of losing capital or income to 
which he was entitled if he did not fulfil some commitment to continue paying. So I dont 
draw any adverse conclusions from the cover continuing  it might have been just as 
appropriate for Zurich itself to cancel the cover once it became aware Mr L no longer wanted 
it to continue.
So I am not persuaded that the additional information Zurich has provided should lead me to 
alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Mr L has explained that it wouldnt 
be possible for him to return the compensation already paid so that it can be added to his 
pension fund. And given he has now passed 75 years of age I think it would be problematic 
for any compensation to be added to his pension. So I am directing Zurich to pay the 
additional compensation to Mr L direct.
Putting things right
I think that Zurich should have ended Mr Ls Personal Life Plan when he reached 65 years of 
age in 2011. So Zurich should refund to Mr L all the premiums he has paid since then, 
including any that have been paid by deductions from the reserve fund.
Should those premiums not have been deducted, they would have benefitted from the 
investment growth enjoyed by the remainder of Mr Ls pension savings with Zurich. So 
Zurich should increase the compensation payable to reflect the average investment growth 
of Mr Ls pension savings from the date the premiums were deducted to the date of 
settlement.
Zurich has already paid Mr L some of the compensation that I am directing above. And it has 
added some limited interest. So it is reasonable that Zurich deducts that amount from the 
compensation when calculating the additional amount due to Mr L. 
The interest Zurich has added to the refund was paid at the rate of Bank of England base 
rate plus 1%. But it has deducted income tax from that interest in line with HMRC guidance. 
If Zurich had not used Mr Ls pension contributions to pay for the life cover, those 
contributions would have benefitted from investment growth in line with his other pension 
savings. And that growth, since it was within his pension, wouldnt have been subject to 
income tax. So that also needs to be accounted for in the compensation that Zurich pays to 
Mr L.
I think it problematic for Zurich to pay the additional compensation into Mr Ls pension plan, 
so it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. But for the 
avoidance of doubt, I am only making this direction in relation to any additional 
compensation that is due to Mr L  not in relation to that which has already been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ls marginal rate of tax. So, if Mr L is a basic rate taxpayer the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as 
Mr L would have been able to take an additional tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
only be applied to 75% of the additional compensation.
I have no doubts that this error will have caused a degree of trouble and upset to Mr L  not 
least in the disruption to his financial planning at the time he was approaching his revised 
selected retirement age. So Zurich should pay Mr L an additional sum of £500 to reflect the 
trouble and upset he has been caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman