DRN-3011738
The complaint
 Miss D says Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) has unfairly refused to repair her 
hob, which she says she had insured for repairs and/or replacement.
 
What happened
 In July 2020 Miss D bought insurance from D&G for her cooker and also her fridge/freezer
and her TV. In April 2021 she reported a fault on both her hob and oven  which were built
into her kitchen as two separate appliances.
She believes her insurance covered both her oven and her hob. D&G says it only covered
the oven, and Miss D never said she had two appliances.
It says its replaced her oven, but wont replace the hob.
Miss D complained about this, but when D&G didnt change its mind she asked us to review
her complaint.
Our investigator thought D&G had led Miss D to believe she was insuring both appliances
when she first bought the cover  so she thought D&G should meet Miss Ds claim in full.
D&G doesnt agree  so I issued a provisional decision earlier this month. In that I said I 
agreed with our investigators conclusions, but that I thought D&G should settle the claim in a 
different way to that our investigator suggested. I thought that, providing Miss D paid the 
relevant premium, D&G should replace her hob. And I thought it should pay her £100 to 
make up for the inconvenience it caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded.
Miss D has accepted my recommendations  and has acknowledged that replacing her hob 
doesnt include the cost of fitting the new hob, as that isnt covered by the policies D&G sells.
D&G says it will replace the hob, although it still doesnt think it did anything wrong when it 
was selling Miss D the policy for her cooker. It says Miss D knows what equipment she 
has, not D&G, so it cant be expected to know whether she should have bought two policies. 
It says her policy schedule clearly said only her cooker was covered.
It doesnt want to pay any compensation as it thinks Miss D caused the problem by not 
explaining she had two separate appliances.
I dont accept either of D&Gs points. D&G is the expert in selling policies, not Miss D. And it 
was D&G that made a commercial decision to cover one item per policy  not something Id 
expect Miss D to know. How many appliances Miss D has is a simple check D&G could have 
made in either of the phone calls. Instead it told Miss D her hob and anything else was 
covered  when only her oven was actually insured. And it used a somewhat confusing word 
cooker when describing Miss Ds oven, without checking this was correct. Thats even 
when D&G says itself that a cooker is usually a freestanding appliance containing both an 
oven and a hob. I still think D&G made mistakes when it sold (or didnt sell) the cover.
D&G also hasnt persuaded me it shouldnt pay the £100 compensation  my response to 
this is similar to the points I made above about the sale itself. If D&G hadnt made mistakes, 
Miss D could have had her hob replaced over a year ago, so some compensation is 
warranted.
Putting things right
Although it maintains it did nothing wrong, D&G has agreed to replace Miss Ds hob or pay 
the retail value of one shes bought. Miss D says us she hasnt replaced it  so D&G should 
meet her claim in line with the other terms and conditions that would apply if Miss D had 
bought the appropriate policy.
It can do that either by supplying a new hob or paying the cash equivalent if Miss D prefers 
that. I understand her old hob is no longer available, so it would be fair for D&G to replace it 
with one of an equivalent or (better) standard. Generally the insurer decides how to meet a 
claim  either by repairing or replacing an item or paying the cash equivalent. If D&G can 
provide a hob, if Miss D wants a cash settlement then D&G need only pay her what it would 
have paid for the hob. Miss D might like to take note that this is often less than the cost of 
her buying the same hob.
Before D&G meets Miss Ds claim she will have to pay the premiums due from July 2020 
(when she would have bought the policy) to April 2021, when the hob failed. If D&G and 
Miss D agree a cash settlement it can deduct the premium from this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
to meet Miss Ds claim as described above and pay her £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman