DRN-2596531
The complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was added to 
Mr Ms credit card account when he applied for the card in person. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclaycard disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint because Barclaycard recommended the policy to 
him but I dont think it was suitable.  Mr M had a medical condition when he bought the policy 
which would not have been covered. So he couldnt have claimed on the policy for 
everything he expected to have been covered for.
Barclaycard points out that the nature and severity of Mr Ms condition meant he was 
unlikely to have taken time off work in connection with it. Ive noted everything Barclaycard 
has said. 
But Im mindful that this was an advised sale. So Barclaycard had to make sure that its 
recommendation to take the policy was suitable. Even if the likelihood of Mr M taking time off 
work in connection with his condition was low, he was still affected by the policys exclusion 
for pre-existing medical conditions.
At the very least, Barclaycard shouldve advised him to proceed with caution, so that he 
knew he might not have been covered in connection with his medical condition. On balance, 
from what Ive seen and been told, I think its unlikely that discussion took place between Mr 
M and Barclaycard.  
I dont think Mr M would have bought the policy if Barclaycard had made it clear it wasnt 
suitable for him. So, I think Mr M has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Putting things right
Barclaycard should put Barclaycard in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI.
A. Barclaycard should find out how much Barclaycard would have owed when he closed 
his credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Barclaycard should then refund the difference between what Mr M owed when he closed 
his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclaycard can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. Barclaycard should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr M would 
have owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Barclaycard works out what Mr M would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr M paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclaycard should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr M wouldve owed Barclaycard something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D. Barclaycard should tell Mr M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. Barclaycard 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) to pay compensation to Mr M in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman