DRN-2430765
The complaint
Miss P complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s decision to decline a claim under her 
landlord insurance policy.
Miss P is being represented in this complaint by Mr W, but for ease of reference Ill refer to 
her directly.
All references to UKI include its appointed agents.
What happened
Miss P held a landlord insurance policy which was underwritten by UKI. In January 2020 she 
contacted UKI to discuss a possible claim for damage to a water heater. UKI told Miss P the 
claim wouldnt be considered as her policy didnt cover integrated appliances or fittings. 
Miss P complained to UKI. She said it wasnt clear from the policy that the water heater 
wouldnt be covered. She added she had taken out the policy with the assumption her 
domestic appliances would be covered, so it was upsetting to learn they werent.
UKI responded to Miss P and maintained its position. It said it wouldnt be able to cover any 
integrated appliances under the policy. It referred to the explanation of contents cover during 
the online application process which stated, Contents cover applies to loose contents that 
are not fitted or integrated, e.g. free standing furniture, utensils, and appliances. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Miss P referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. She found UKIs definition 
of Landlord Contents in the policy documents was different to that provided during the 
application process. It stated, Fixtures and fittings (not forming a permanent part of the 
structure). And she found Miss Ps policy didnt clearly define what a permanent part of the 
buildings structure was. So she found it reasonable for Miss P to assume she would be 
covered for the damage. She recommended UKI reimburse Miss P for the repair costs to the 
water heater.
Miss P accepted our investigators findings. UKI disagreed. It said the item Miss P wanted to 
claim for formed a permanent part of the structure. And it didnt agree its definition in the 
policy was unclear. It said Miss P should have raised any concerns and read the policy 
terms before she applied for the policy.
Our investigator responded to UKIs comments. She said the definition UKI had relied on 
during the application process was optional. So the consumer wasnt required to read it 
before proceeding to the next steps. So it wasnt reasonable for Miss P to have highlighted 
any concerns with the wording when she bought the policy.
UKI maintained the water heater was a permanent structure as it was plumbed in and felt the 
way the policy had been sold hadnt been taken into account. UKI also said that in the event 
of the claim being accepted, it would require the reasons for the water heater failing along 
with supporting evidence.
Our investigator asked Miss P for this evidence. Miss P said the heater had been damaged 
accidently by tenants storing items under the sink. She provided an invoice for the repair 
costs, but was unable to provide further supporting evidence, such as a report, due to the 
time that had passed.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and recommended UKI settle the invoice for repairs. 
She also recommended UKI pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss P.
UKI asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the heater was a required part of the 
building, so wouldnt ever be removed by Miss P. And it maintained her policy didnt cover 
for this type of claim.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions and Ill explain why Ill require 
UKI to settle this claim below.
Miss P has raised concerns both about the sale of the policy, and for having to pay to repair 
the damaged water heater which she believed was covered. Having looked at everything, I 
can see the problem around the policy wordings and level of cover became apparent when 
Miss P raised the possibility of the claim.
But I dont think UKIs decision to reject the claim at this stage necessarily means the policy 
was mis-sold. An insurance policy is taken out to cover any number of unforeseen events. 
And Ive seen nothing from the evidence provided to suggest Miss P was given any 
misleading information about what the policy covered when she bought it online.
However, I think the key argument in this case concerns the policy definition which UKI 
relied on to decline Miss Ps claim. And I need to consider whether UKI has applied the 
policy terms fairly, given the circumstances. 
Ive not considered the definition provided to Miss P as part of the application process as this 
wording isnt found in the policy terms. So Ive next looked at the definition of Landlord 
Contents within the policy document which Ive set out in the background to this complaint. 
Ive checked the policy documents to see if it further defines a permanent part of the 
structure, but I cant see one here.
I appreciate UKIs stance in saying that a water heating system is plumbed into a property, 
so it can be argued its permanent. And it has said Miss P would never intend to remove it as 
its required to heat the whole property. But Miss P has said the water heater is for the 
kitchen area only, as the remainder of the property gets hot water provided separately. And 
shes said it can be removed which she would do in the event of selling the property. So it 
can be also be argued its not a permanent fitting. On balance, I find Miss Ps testimony 
plausible and persuasive here.As I cant see that a permanent part of the structure is further defined in Miss Ps policy, this 
means UKI should accept the claim. But in order for it to settle the claim, it must be shown 
there was an insured event which caused the damage.
Miss P says a local heating contractor explained the water heater was accidently damaged, 
so she thought it was covered under the policy. Miss P added she didnt get a report on the 
cause of damage at the time because UKI had said she wasnt covered. So she arranged 
repairs through the contractor. Miss P has provided the invoice for the repairs which is £460.
Miss Ps policy does provide cover for accidental damage. And given the time that has 
passed since the event I find it unlikely that it will be possible to obtain a report on the cause 
of damage that UKI has asked for. But based on what Miss Ps contractor has said, I think it 
is more likely than not the damage was caused by an insured event. So I dont find it 
reasonable to require her to provide further evidence now. Therefore UKI should reimburse 
Miss Ps costs to replace the water heater, subject to any remaining policy terms or excess.
Our investigator has recommended UKI compensate Miss P £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused for the delay in settling the claim. Having looked at everything, I find 
this fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
U K Insurance Limited must settle Miss Ps claim of £460 for the repairs to the water heater, 
subject to any remaining policy terms or excess.
U K Insurance Limited must also pay Miss P £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited must put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman