DRN-3364646
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by HSBC UK Bank Plc, (HSBC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage in January 1994 and it appears their PPI policy started 
at the same time. Mr and Mrs B said the sale took place over the course of meetings in a 
branch of the bank and at their home, and that HSBC recommended the policy for them. Mr 
and Mrs B also said that the policy wasnt suitable for them, as they were assured that the 
policy covered all forms of unemployment, but a later claim on the policy was declined. 
HSBC told us the policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr B at a 
monthly cost of £23.54. The monthly benefit was £400.00. If Mr B had made a successful 
claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. It looks as though the policy 
was cancelled in December 1998.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed, and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC couldnt provide copies of any documentation about the PPI from the point of sale, 
although this is not surprising as the mortgage was repaid in 2001 and businesses are not 
required to keep records indefinitely. However, it was able to send us a copy of a screenshot 
from the underwriter showing a record of the policy, along with copies of Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage agreement (which contained no reference to the PPI), letters it sent to Mr and Mrs 
B and a note of a call with Mr B in August 2021. 
HSBC couldnt provide the policy terms and conditions from 1994, but did send in a copy of 
the policy summary from 1993. I think its reasonable to consider this as broadly reflecting 
what wouldve applied a year later. I also have copies of various letters that Mr and Mrs B 
sent in. 
I should say here that Mr and Mrs B have contacted HSBC more than once about this PPI 
policy. From the letters sent in by both Mr and Mrs B and HSBC, it looks as though Mr and 
Mrs B first complained about the declined claim in 2012, but that the reference number they 
had found for the policy actually related to a life policy taken out with the mortgage, rather 
than the PPI, and HSBCs reply reflected that. However, as the complaint was sent in some 
years after the claim, HSBC said that the complaint was outside the relevant time limits. I 
dont have further information about the 2012 complaint, and it doesnt appear that Mr and 
Mrs B referred the complaint to this service at that time. Therefore, I have only considered 
the sale of the policy in this decision. 
Mr and Mrs B said that HSBC advised them to take out the policy (and HSBC has not 
disputed this). So it shouldve made sure it was suitable for them. Mr and Mrs Bs main point 
of complaint is that it was not, as a subsequent unemployment claim was declined.  
Ive carefully considered what Mr and Mrs B said about that, but on balance I think it was 
reasonable for the adviser to recommend the policy at the point of sale. I say this for the 
reasons set out below.
Mr and Mrs B said they were aware they had a choice about the policy, and the costs were 
explained, although they said they didnt receive the policy information that HSBC said ought 
to have been given out. They also said that neither of them wouldve been entitled to sick 
pay from their employers, and the information I have suggests that they had minimal savings 
at the time. So it seems reasonable to think they wouldve struggled to meet the mortgage 
repayments had Mr B (the insured) been unable to work for any length of time, and therefore 
that Mr and Mrs B could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that 
was secured on their home.
I accept that, as the PPI was sold in a meeting, I cant know how the adviser explained the 
PPI. And I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B are certain they were told that the policy would 
cover all forms of unemployment. I mentioned above that Mr and Mrs B said they had had an 
unemployment claim declined later on, and in summary Mr B said that the circumstances of 
his unemployment amounted to constructive dismissal, with a settlement reached before a 
tribunal took place. 
I am not looking at the claim here, but it does seem unusual to see that Mr and Mrs B said 
the claim was declined in a branch of HSBC, with no suggestion of a referral being made to 
the underwriter. And I note that Mr B recalled having left his job in 1999, whereas the 
screenshot from the underwriter shows the policy having been cancelled by the consumers 
before that, in December 1998. However, I have made no finding on these points as they 
relate to the claim rather than the sale. 
Ive also kept in mind that PPI policies are not designed to cover every possible eventuality. 
Dismissal, whether constructive, unfair or otherwise, does not tend to be covered, possibly 
because this can be a subjective area and the fact that it would potentially need to be proven 
in court. Ive also no reason to think this could reasonably have been foreseen at the time of 
the sale of the policy  I note from the call record from August 2021 that Mr B had had some 
concerns about potential job security, but there seemed to be no particular issues at the time 
the policy was sold. I also cant rule out that Mr and Mrs Bs recollection of the specifics of 
the conversations that took place around January 1994 might have been affected by their 
later unhappy experience with Mr Bs job. 
Overall, whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B feel very strongly about this, having 
considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, on balance I consider the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, and that it was reasonable for HSBC to recommend it in 1994 
based on their circumstances. I cannot know what written policy information was provided - 
and I accept that Mr and Mrs B said that they didnt receive the booklet and terms and 
conditions - but I think it is more likely than not that they would still have taken out the PPI if 
the written information had been provided. This means I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-
sold.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman