DRN-2572847
The complaint
 Mr J complains that IG Index Limited (IG Index) did not notify him about a redemption on his 
account and that he suffered a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr J held ETF shares in an ISA with IG Index. I will call these shares ETF 1. On 24 June 
2019, the provider of ETF1 announced their intention to fully redeem all shares in the sub-
fund and to de-list them. The de-listing took place on 25 September 2019 and the shares 
were sold on 2 October 2019.
Mr J noticed this on 4 November 2019 and complained to IG Index. Mr J said that he did not 
receive any communication about the redemption and was unaware that it was happening. 
Mr J said that he had been financially disadvantaged and was looking for £2,556 in 
compensation.
IG Index investigated his complaint but did not believe that they were obliged to notify Mr J 
of the redemption. They said that their terms and conditions did not expressly cover this 
event. In order to resolve the complaint, IG Index offered Mr J £585.84 which was the 
difference between the last traded price of ETF 1 and the redemption price that Mr J 
received.
Mr J did not accept this and referred his complaint to the service and one of our investigators 
reviewed the complaint. The investigator issued his first view saying that he did not think that 
IG Index had done anything wrong and did not uphold the complaint. Mr J wrote back with 
further information and the investigator issued a second view. 
In his second view, the investigator said that IG Index had not acted fairly and upheld the 
complaint. The investigator asked IG Index to calculate compensation based on back dating 
shares that Mr J had bought using the redemption proceeds.
Mr J did not agree with the calculation for compensation and asked that an ombudsman to 
review his complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will be upholding the complaint. I 
have also set out how I think IG Index should compensate Mr J. I realise that Mr J may be 
disappointed with this calculation, but I will explain why I have arrived at this decision.
Mr J says that as IG Index did not notify him of the redemption, he has suffered a financial 
loss. Having read the documentation available to me, I think that IG Index should have 
notified Mr J that the redemption was planned, and this would have allowed Mr J to make an 
informed decision to either trade out of the ETF 1 shares or to re-invest once the redemption 
proceeds were available.
Mr J has said that the terms and conditions that IG Index relied upon were confusing and 
they provided conflicting information. The two clauses read:
you agree that, unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, we are under no obligation to 
monitor or advise you of the status of Instruments held by us on your behalf.
And
A corporate action is something which will bring about a change to the Instruments you 
hold, such as a rights entitlement issue. If there is a corporate action on Instruments we hold 
on your behalf, we will use reasonable efforts to contact you, however you acknowledge that 
there may be situations where it is impractical to do so.
Having read the two clauses, I agree with Mr J that they provide conflicting information. I 
think that the redemption resulted in a change to Mr Js investment and as such, they should 
have used reasonable efforts to contact him
It is on this basis that I think that IG Index has acted unfairly. Mr J was unaware that there 
was an event that would change the investment he held, and he could not take appropriate 
action  either by selling his shares in EFT 1 or using the redemption proceeds immediately 
after they were available to him.
In his submission to the service, Mr J has said that he has suffered a loss of £2,556.00. Mr J 
says that by the time he had realised what happened to his shares, the benchmark for the 
ETF had risen by 4.5% and he had missed out on a potential gain of £2,556.00. IG Index did 
not agree that Mr J had suffered this loss.
I sympathise with Mr J that he did not receive any notification from IG Index, but I dont think 
that the rise on the benchmark should be used as the basis for calculating loss. When the 
shares were redeemed, they stopped having any value and any future gain (or loss) of the 
underlying benchmark cant be considered. Mr J was unable to sell at this price as they were 
de-listed at this point.
The role of the service is to look at what happened and to consider if the business acted 
unfairly or did something wrong. In this complaint I think that IG Index acted unfairly and 
should put Mr J into the position he should have been in had they sent him notification about 
the redemption.
IG Index has offered to pay Mr J £585.84 which represents the difference between the last 
traded price and the redemption price. I agree and this should form the first part of the 
compensation calculation.
Once Mr J was aware of the redemption, he invested into another ETF share which I will call 
ETF 2. These were not purchased immediately as Mr J put the proceeds into a cash fund 
before he was ready to invest.
The second part of the compensation calculation should involve looking at the price obtained 
by Mr J when he purchased the shares in ETF 2 and the price when the redemption 
proceeds were first available. This is in line with the investigators view.
  
Putting things right I require IG Index Limited to undertake the following actions:
Pay Mr J £585.84 which represents the last traded price of ETF 1 and the redemption 
price for his holding of 5,465 shares
Compare the purchase price (Price A) of Mr Js ETF2 shares to the price when the 
redemption proceeds were made available to him (Price B). If Price B is lower than Price 
A, pay Mr J the difference.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman