DRN-3893056
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) declined their claim 
on the structural buildings warranty that covers their property. 
What happened
In 2012 Mr and Mrs M bought a new flat in a block that came with a ten-year structural 
warranty provided by NHBC.
During this period the building required updates to its fire safety features and cladding. The 
problems were rectified and the freeholder of the building made a claim on the warranty for 
the costs, however this was declined. Therefore the managing agent split the cost of the 
works amongst the leaseholders.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy about this and made their own claim under section 4 of the 
warranty. NHBC declined the claim as it said cover only applied under section 4 where it had 
carried out building control, but in this case the developer had opted to use the local council 
to provide this function. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this. They said when they bought the property with the 
warranty, it hadnt been made clear to them that the section 4 cover wouldnt apply. And they 
had no say in whether it was opted out of or not as this decision was made by the developer. 
They also said the paperwork for the warranty wasnt given to them until after theyd 
exchanged on the property, which meant they didnt have all the information they needed 
before going ahead with the sale. They said by declining the claim NHBC had breached both 
the Consumer Rights Act and the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
They made a complaint but NHBC didnt uphold it, so they brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the warranty 
documentation was clear that section 4 cover only applied where NHBC carried out building 
control, so didnt think it had acted unreasonably by declining the claim. Further, she said 
NHBC originally sold the warranty to the developer and it was its responsibility to pass on 
the relevant documentation when it sold the flats. So she didnt think it was fair to hold NHBC 
responsible for the documents not being passed on before the sale. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators outcome and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a buildings warranty is sold, there are three parties involved in the sale and placement 
of the policy. NHBC sold the warranty to the developer of the property to provide to buyers 
once the build is complete. The developer then sells the units and provides the details of the 
warranty policies to the buyers. 
Here, I am considering a complaint against NHBC. This means I can only consider whether it 
acted fairly and reasonably. I cant take into account the actions of the developer, as NHBC 
isnt responsible for those.  
Mr and Mrs M have raised a number of issues with NHBCs decision to decline the claim, 
Ive addressed those I consider key in turn below. In their complaint Mr and Mrs M have 
referred to various laws and regulations. When considering complaints, we consider the 
relevant law, rules and guidance, as well as industry best practice, to decide whether a 
business acted fairly and reasonably. So while Ive not referenced these directly, I have 
taken them into consideration as part of my decision making process.
The significance of the term wasnt brought to their attention before the sale of the 
property
When considering a complaint, I can only consider the actions of the business in question 
when carrying out a regulated activity in relation to its customer that is bringing the 
complaint. 
Here, the sale of the warranty was made by NHBC to the original developer, before the flats 
were purchased. This means Mr and Mrs M had no involvement in the sale of the policy, so 
they wouldnt be considered a customer in relation to the regulated activity of NHBC selling 
the policy.  This means Im unable to consider the sale of the policy as part of their 
complaint.
If Mr and Mrs M feel the warranty wasnt sold appropriately then this is an issue theyd need 
to raise directly with the developer that they brought the property from. 
However I can consider their complaint about the warranty and the documentation, as this 
was purchased for their benefit.
Decline of the claim
Mr and Mrs M have made a claim under section 4 of the warranty. In relation to claims under 
this section, the warranty document states:
This section only applies if building control (that is, inspection for Building Regulations 
purposes) for your home was provided by NHBC Building Control Services Ltd or by another 
company registered with us.
It isnt disputed that NHBC didnt carry out building control. The developer opted to use the 
local council instead. And the warranty clearly states that where this is the case no cover is 
provided under section 4, so I dont think NHBC has acted unfairly by declining the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M have said that the term is buried in a large policy document and therefore isnt 
clear. Ive considered this but I dont agree. The term is highlighted at the start of the 
warranty on page 2 and reiterated under section 4 of the policy on page 15. So I think its 
made clear enough in the documentation NHBC provides. 
The significance of the term was not brought to their attention before exchanging and 
isnt clear in the documentation.Mr and Mrs M have said that they had no say in the developers choice to opt out of section 
4 cover, and the significance of this term wasnt brought to their attention before they 
purchased the property. 
As I said previously, I cant consider the actions of the developer when the property was 
purchased, or the sale of the warranty to the developer. This includes its decision to opt out 
of the section 4 cover. However Ive looked at the documents NHBC provided that were 
passed on to Mr and Mrs M and considered if these were clear, and allowed Mr and Mrs M 
to make their own decision about the warranty cover. 
The documents provided to the developer to pass to the customer included the full policy 
document, schedule and acceptance form. 
Ive looked at the schedule that was attached to the acceptance form and it lays out the brief 
inclusions of each section. Under section 4 it states:
This section is not applicable as NHBC did not carry out Building Control.
The schedule also states:
For further details of the cover provided by Buildmark, please refer to the policy booklet
which you can find on our website if you do not already have a copy.
The term Ive quoted in the above section is highlighted at the start of the warranty document 
on page 2 and reiterated under section 4 of the policy on page 15.
So considering this, I think NHBC did enough to make it clear to beneficiaries of the policy 
that section 4 cover wouldnt apply. And that the term was made suitably clear on the 
paperwork considering its significance. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M are concerned that the documents werent provided before they 
exchanged on the flat. However this is the responsibility of the developer and not NHBC. So 
it isnt something I can hold NHBC accountable for. NHBC has shown it provided the 
relevant documents to the developer in 2011, some time before the properties were sold. 
And based on the evidence, Im satisfied NHBC made the relevant term clear in its 
documentation thats provided to beneficiaries of the policy. 
For these reasons, I think NHBC has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Its provided clear information that meets its obligations under the relevant rules 
and guidance and it came to a fair decision when declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim. I therefore 
wont ask it to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman