DRN-3173593
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way Soteria Insurance Limited handled a claim hes made on his 
building insurance. He says its actions prevented him from recovering costs from a 
neighbour.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr M submitted a previous complaint to this Service about a claim hed made on his 
buildings insurance policy following damage to the porch of his property. 
The claim was declined by Soteria under a policy exclusion relating to defective 
design due to the depths of the foundations. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and told Soteria to reassess the claim in line 
with the remaining terms without applying the exclusion it relied on. 
When the claim was accepted, Mr M had to pay the policy excess of £1,000.
He asked Soteria to waive the excess fee but it declined.
Mr M raised a complaint with this service and initially reiterated his view Soteria 
should waive the excess. Subsequently, he thought it should pay compensation as a 
contribution to his uninsured losses instead.
He said the owner of the land that his and his neighbours properties were built on, 
had gone into liquidation. And this happened between the claim being declined and 
subsequently accepted.
Mr M said this meant he wasnt able to obtain evidence from the landowner that he 
considered crucial to any claim he might make against his neighbour who he thought 
was responsible for the damage to his porch.
So, he thought Soterias actions on the original claim led to him missing out on the 
opportunity to successfully claim the £1,000 from his neighbour through any legal 
channel. So he says Soteria is responsible for this loss.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and explained she didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show any claim against the neighbour would have been 
successful even if he had been able to obtain the evidence hed wanted from the 
landowner. 
Mr M asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excess
The policy excess is a pre-agreed amount of money thats paid to an insurer in the 
event of a claim. Its the first part of the claim the policyholder has to pay and most 
policies have an excess.
Having looked at Mr Ms policy I can see it confirms the excess on subsidence claims 
is £1,000.
So, Im satisfied Soteria has acted in line with the policy terms in charging the excess 
on the subsidence claim for the porch. And I havent seen any fair or reasonable 
reason why it should consider refunding the fee.
Contribution to uninsured losses.
As Ive explained above, Mr M has had to pay the policy excess of £1,000 and 
believes his neighbour is responsible for this loss as it was his neighbours tree that 
caused damaged to his porch. He planned to make a claim against his neighbour but 
says Soterias handling of the claim has led him to miss out on this opportunity.
But I dont agree with this argument. For me to be persuaded Soteria is responsible 
for his loss I would have to believe the consequences of Soterias original decline of 
the claim were reasonably foreseeable and any loss Mr M experienced flowed 
directly from that error. 
Given the turn of events Ive detailed above, Im not satisfied they were  what 
followed was simply too remote from the original event to be reasonably foreseeable.
Even if I were to accept that the events that followed Soterias original decline were 
reasonably foreseeable  which I dont  I would also have to be persuaded that 
were it not for the original decline, Mr Ms claim against his neighbour would have 
been successful. 
Ive seen not seen enough evidence to persuade me any claim against his neighbour 
would have more likely than not been successful. I acknowledge Mr M says hes 
received verbal legal advice that without the letter from the landowner, his claim was 
unlikely to be successful. Ive not been given anything to substantiate this but even if 
I had, it doesnt automatically follow that if he did have the letter, a claim would be 
successful. There are too many unknowns that could have affected the outcome.
Indeed, I note Soteria advised Mr M that the recovery of costs through a negligence 
claim against a domestic neighbour was generally unlikely to be successful.
Additionally, I havent seen persuasive evidence that leads me conclude the ability to 
claim against the neighbour was precluded by Soterias original claim decision.
So, on balance, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct 
Soteria to compensate Mr M for the £1,000 he says hes lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 Paul Phillips
Ombudsman