DRN-3069582
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Santander UK Plc gave them incorrect information about their 
potential options in relation to their mortgage which has caused them significant distress and 
worry. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out an interest only mortgage with Santander in December 2007. The 
mortgage was over a term of 15 years, meaning it is due to be repaid in full in December 
2022. The mortgage initially had a five-year fixed interest rate.
In February 2017 Mr and Mrs O agreed a new fixed interest rate on their mortgage, until May 
2022. Mr and Mrs O have said, at that time, they had discussions in branch with an adviser 
from Santander. And theyve said they were told that, if they reduced the mortgage balance 
to a lower level, when the mortgage reached the end of its term  a few months after the 
agreed fixed rate would end  theyd be able to take out another interest only mortgage with 
Santander. Theyve said the adviser explained this replacement mortgage would run until 
they moved into long term care or until they both passed away  lasting for their lifetime.
In April 2019 and February 2020, Santander sent Mr and Mrs O letters, reminding them that 
their mortgage term was due to end in December 2022. The letter reiterated that they 
needed to think about how they could repay the mortgage in full when the term ended. And it 
invited them to get in touch with Santander to confirm what their plans were.
Following the February 2020 letter, Mrs O called Santander to confirm that their intention 
was to take a replacement mortgage, running for the whole of their life, as theyd been 
previously told they could. During that call Santander indicated the only options available 
were to repay the mortgage through the sale of the property or to switch their mortgage to a 
repayment basis, with significantly increased monthly repayments.
Mr and Mrs O then complained to Santander. They said theyd been lied to in 2017 about 
their options. And they were now approaching the end of their interest only mortgage term, 
with no way of repaying the balance. They explained that their home had been significantly 
adapted to assist with several health conditions Mrs O was suffering from. And theyd been 
left extremely distressed and worried by what theyd now been told  and the prospect of 
potentially losing their home. They were also unhappy that they couldnt make any 
alternative arrangements until after May 2022, without incurring an early repayment charge.
Santander said it didnt offer lifetime or equity release mortgage products. So, the 
information that had been provided in the call in February 2020 was correct. It accepted 
though that its representative couldve done more to understand the mortgage product that 
Mrs O wanted to discuss  essentially a lifetime mortgage. As a result, and to reflect any 
poor service received in 2017, Santander offered £150 for the upset caused.
Mr and Mrs O asked our service to consider their complaint. One of our investigators looked 
into matters. She agreed that the call that took place in February 2020 couldve been 
handled better. But she felt Santander had been clear throughout the term of the mortgage 
that it was on an interest-only basis and that Mr and Mrs O would need a way of repaying it. 
While notes of the conversation in branch in 2017 werent available, she was satisfied that 
even if it had been suggested Santander could potentially have offered an alternate 
mortgage at the end of the term, this wouldve been subject to lending criteria at the time. 
And as Santander dont currently offer the products Mr and Mrs O are seeking, she didnt 
feel it had made an error. 
As a result, she felt the £150 offered in respect of the upset caused by any poor service 
provided was fair. However, she did say that shed expect Santander to liaise with Mr and 
Mrs O and see what help it could potentially provide.
Mr and Mrs O asked for their case to be reviewed as they still felt theyd been lied to and let 
down by Santander. As they didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with the information given to them in 2017. Theyve said that 
Santander misled them at that time in terms of what options would be available to them at 
the end of their mortgage term  in particular that it would be able to offer a lifetime 
mortgage product to repay their existing mortgage.
There isnt a recording or any notes available relating to the conversation that took place in 
2017. So, I cant know for sure what was discussed. Mr and Mrs O have been consistent in 
their explanation of what was said at that time. And I have no reason to doubt that it was 
suggested to them an alternate mortgage product, lasting for their lifetime, couldve been an 
option for repaying their interest only mortgage at the end of its term. 
When they contacted Santander in early 2020, it indicated this wasnt an option, at least not 
one it could offer. And the information Ive seen suggests this wasnt a product it offered at 
the time. Since then, Santander has entered into an arrangement with another business 
whereby it refers customers potentially needing a lifetime mortgage. But I understand that Mr 
and Mrs O do not qualify for one of these products, due to their age.
With this in mind, I can understand why they are upset and feel they were given incorrect 
information in 2017. However, I do think it is likely Santander wouldve also indicated that 
any arrangements at the end of the mortgage would be subject to approval and meeting the 
relevant lending criteria. And at the time subsequent discussions took place, Mr and Mrs O 
didnt meet those criteria or there werent products available. So, I dont think the information 
given to them more recently was incorrect or that Santander has acted unfairly when it said 
these options were not currently available.
I also dont think that the information provided in 2017, led Mr and Mrs O to do anything 
differently, that they wouldnt already have done.
They took out a new fixed interest rate product at the time. Which from the information Ive 
seen reduced their monthly mortgage repayments  meaning they would be paying less in 
interest over the time the interest rate deal ran for. 
Im also conscious their mortgage was first taken out in 2007  they didnt take an interest 
only mortgage for the first time in 2017. And it was always on an interest only basis and this 
was made clear to them. Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer and examples of the information sent since, alongside annual statements. And I think the basis of the mortgage 
wouldve been clear from these documents. And I think Mr and Mrs O ought to have known 
that they needed a way to repay the mortgage when it reached the end of its term. The 
discussion in 2017 mightve led them to think there was an option available to them that now 
may not be. But Im conscious theyd held the mortgage for almost ten years to that point  
needing a way to repay the balance when the term ended all along.
And I dont think Mr and Mrs O couldve converted their mortgage to a repayment basis in 
2017. Based on the level of borrowing and the remaining term, or even potential term if 
theyd also extended it to the maximum Santander would allow, the monthly repayments on 
a capital repayment basis wouldve been significantly higher than the interest only payments 
they are now paying. And although theyve made some lump sum payments to begin to 
reduce the capital balance owed, theyve indicated those overpayments were the most they 
could pay on top of their monthly instalments. And so, based on what theyve said about 
their circumstances it doesnt appear theyd have been in a position to convert their 
mortgage at that time.
So, with all of this in mind, I dont doubt it wouldve come as a shock and caused them 
significant concern to find that a lifetime mortgage product might not be available through 
Santander in 2020. But I dont think the information provided in 2017, if incorrect, caused 
them to take action they otherwise wouldnt have done.
I also dont think itd be reasonable to require Santander to waive the early repayment 
charge applicable in the event that the mortgage was repaid before Mr and Mrs Os current 
interest rate deal ends. Ive seen a copy of the conversion offer issued in 2017 and this 
makes it clear that an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was repaid in full before May 
2022. I know Mr and Mrs O are concerned that this means they have limited time between 
the end of their current deal and the expiry of the mortgage term to make alternate 
arrangements. But I think the information they were given about this was clear. And as Ive 
said, I think they would always have likely taken the interest rate deal. And they are able to 
make arrangements in advance  with these not taking effect until they are outside of the 
window in which theyd incur an ERC. So, I dont think I can fairly say Santander is not able 
to apply this term, that Mr and Mrs O agreed to.
Ive listened to the call Mrs O had with Santander in February 2020. And it is unfortunate that 
the person she spoke to didnt establish that it was a lifetime mortgage product she was 
referring to when asking if there was no further help Santander could provide. But Im 
conscious that the person she spoke to wasnt a mortgage adviser. And I dont think they 
were discourteous or that any of the other information they provided was incorrect.
So, taking everything into account, I accept that Mr and Mrs O were likely told that a lifetime 
mortgage could be an option for them by Santander in 2017. This has not turned out to 
currently be the case. So, I can understand why Mr and Mrs O feel let down by this. But I 
dont think itd be reasonable to require Santander to offer a product that it doesnt, because 
of this potentially incorrect statement. Ive thought about what would be fair. And while I 
know Mr and Mrs O wouldve been upset to later be told this option wasnt available to them, 
I dont think they wouldve done anything differently even without this discussion. So overall, 
I think the £150 Santander has offered for the upset caused by the issues with the service it 
has provided is fair and reasonable.
I understand that Mr and Mrs Os main concern now is that they dont have a repayment plan 
for their mortgage and that the term is ending in December 2022. And I can appreciate why 
this is causing them significant distress  particularly given what theyve said about how 
important their home is, not least because of the changes theyve made to assist with Mrs 
Os health conditions.Santander has said that Mr and Mrs O should contact its end of term team to discuss 
options. And I know our investigator suggested itd be reasonable for this to happen next 
year, as the end of the term got closer. But I think it would actually be appropriate for 
Santander to proactively contact Mr and Mrs O now and begin discussions around what 
arrangements could be made.
When doing so Id expect Santander to think about a tailored solution, to help Mr and Mrs O 
in their individual circumstances. Including considering options outside of its standard 
lending criteria around term extension / length etc. And Id also expect it to have regard for 
the transitional arrangements in the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB)  introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority as part of its 
mortgage market review. In particular Id expect it to consider MCOBS 11.7.1 and 11.7.3. 
And Id add that, if Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with the further discussions that take place, 
they could potentially raise a further, separate complaint about that in the future.
But with regards to this complaint, as Ive explained, I think the offer already made by 
Santander to address matters, is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman