DRN-3028894
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1996. Mr 
and Mrs G say Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold them the PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to YBS.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (including Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances at the time as well as the policys benefits, limitations and exclusions) arent 
disputed. So I wont repeat all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. However, they thought YBSs subsequent offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs G paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided YBS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that YBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Although the mortgage in question was a joint one, it seems only Mr G was protected by the 
PPI cover. I also think theres plenty of evidence that Mr and Mrs G wanted to take out the 
PPI and they engaged in the sale process. I say this because Ive seen the separate PPI 
application they filled out, in addition to their mortgage application. In this, they specifically 
selected unemployment cover for Mr G, rather than the more common cover that also 
included sickness / disability. And they chose to exclude Mrs G from the cover completely. I 
see they then signed the application form and later amended the level of protection. 
So whilst I can accept that Mr and Mrs G may genuinely feel now that the PPI was mis-sold 
to them, it looks much more like it was something they wanted to have at the time. In my 
view, YBS properly obtained their consent.
YBS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs G as part of an advised sale, so it was 
for Mr and Mrs G to check for themselves that the PPI was right for their situation. YBSs 
responsibility was to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Its certainly possible the information YBS gave to Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it might have been. But the paperwork they signed does look quite comprehensive 
to me and I note they were given a Mortgage Offer where the MPPI was referred to. I 
therefore think they knew the costs and what was covered. Overall, I think they probably had 
enough information on which to make an informed decision about what they wanted to do. 
The cover wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were most likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like it was affordable 
and useful if something went wrong. 
Mr G was also eligible for the cover and whilst I agree he would have had some sickness 
protection through his job, this was a mortgage secured against Mr and Mrs Gs home. It 
would have paid out up to £500 per month for up to a year if successfully claimed on and this 
would have been in addition to any other means they already had. So I can see it would 
have been of use. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs G would have acted differently 
even if I accept that YBS could have done a better job at explaining things during the sale; I 
still think theyd have wanted to take this cover out.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. For example, they said the policy 
didnt cover back pain or stress  but as Ive said, Mr G didnt ask for a disability policy, so 
Im afraid this allegation is irrelevant to this case. This, and other general points also include: 
a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
However, Mr and Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific 
facts and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all 
PPI complaints. I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs 
Gs particular case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out 
above I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This means YBS doesnt have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.Having done so Ive decided YBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
YBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
YBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs G about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
YBS and Mr and Mrs G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because YBS didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in this 
case 
I dont think YBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs G because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs G should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: YBS failed to tell Mr and Mrs G about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipand
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs G in order to remedy the unfairness caused by YBS not disclosing the high 
level of commission before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Gs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for YBSs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for YBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and Mrs G with the policy Ive 
concluded above they would still have taken out if YBS had done everything it should have 
done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that YBSs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G for this part.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Yorkshire Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs G an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable), if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Michael CampbellOmbudsman