DRN-3251345
The complaint
Mr A complains that damage was caused to his property due to the length of time it 
took Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) to fix a leak under his home emergency 
cover.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr A called IPA as there was a leak in his home. IPA sent a 
contractor out the following day. IPAs contractor found there was a leak from the shower, 
and repaired this.
Mr A complained to IPA about the length of time it took for the contractor to go to his 
property. IPA accepted that its contractor attended outside of its quoted timescales. It 
paid Mr A £250 compensation by way of apology for this.
Mr A was unhappy with this. He sent IPA a quote hed been given for the damage, 
which was for £1,750 (plus VAT). IPA didnt pay this, as it didnt think the damage had 
been caused by the delay in its contractor attending. Mr A didnt agree, and so he 
brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator ultimately recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought IPA 
hadnt shown that it had told Mr A how to isolate the leak. She thought the damage had 
likely been caused by IPAs delays in attending the property. Our investigator therefore 
recommended IPA cover the cost of the repairs.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 December 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy says if the insured suffers an emergency, IPA will tell them how to protect 
themselves and their home immediately. IPA will then organise and pay up to £1,000 
per claim to carry out the emergency repair.
I understand IPA aims to send a contractor to carry out an emergency repair within 
four hours. IPA already accepts that it took too long to send a contractor to carry out 
the emergency repair. Mr A says it took around 18 hours, and that the leak continued 
over that time.
IPA hasnt been able to provide this service with a recording of the call Mr A made when 
he reported the leak. So I cant be sure what Mr A was told in terms of isolating the leak.
Though I understand that Mr A had experienced two previous leaks in his property that 
policy year (which had been reported to IPA), so it seems likely that he would have 
known how to turn off the water in the event of a leak.
The policy only covers an emergency repair, and doesnt cover the cost of putting right 
any damage caused by that emergency. Therefore, for me to require IPA to cover the cost 
of the damage, Id need to be satisfied that the damage was due to IPAs delay in 
arranging for the contractor to attend, and wouldnt have happened anyway.
IPA arranged for its loss adjuster to provide a report. They considered the photos of the 
damage, and concluded the damage was consistent with an escape of water. However, 
they thought the damage was minor and said there was no evidence of water pouring 
through the property for long periods. They pointed out that if this were the case, theyd 
expect to see a section of the ceiling come down, or more staining to the walls. The loss 
adjuster said they couldnt confirm if the damage was due to the delay.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Mr A has shown that its more likely than not 
that the damage was caused by IPAs delays. I therefore dont intend to require IPA to 
cover the cost of the repairs.
IPA accepts that it caused Mr A inconvenience due to the delay in arranging for its 
contractor to attend, and it paid him £250 for this. Im satisfied this was reasonable.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
Mr A responded to say that IPA didnt tell him to switch the water off. He provided a 
transcript of the call where hed reported the leak to IPA. Mr A also said that whilst Id said 
he had two previous leaks in the property, I have presumed that he was told to turn the 
water off when those leaks occurred. He said he hadnt been told to do so. Mr A also says 
theres nothing in the cover that states a leak has to be of a certain level to be covered by 
the policy.
IPA responded and provided a copy of the call where Mr A reported the leak.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IPA has now provided the call where Mr A reported the leak. It wouldve been helpful if IPA 
had provided this when our investigator initially asked for it during her investigations. 
Nonetheless, Ive now considered it.
In the call, Mr A explained to IPA that there was water leaking through his kitchen ceiling. He 
said there was a bathroom above the kitchen. Mr A said it was an uncontrollable leak, but he 
hadnt been in his bathroom to have a look at where the leak was coming from. 
I agree with Mr A that he wasnt told to switch off the water by IPA during the phone call. 
However, its also the case that Mr A hadnt been in the bathroom to see if he could tell 
where the leak was coming from. I find this odd, given that he thought the leak was coming 
from the bathroom. If Mr A had been able to give IPA more information about the leak, 
perhaps it couldve given him advice about how to stop the leak. 
Mr A says that although Id said hed made previous claims for leaks, he thinks Ive assumed 
that he was told to turn the water off. I cant be sure what Mr A was told in relation to those 
previous leaks, but I think its reasonable to expect a homeowner to know theyd need to turn 
off the water supply if a leak was taking place in their home  particularly if theyve suffered 
previous water leaks. 
In any event, Mr A hasnt provided evidence to support that the damage to his home was 
over and above the damage that wouldve likely happened even if IPAs contractor had been 
able to attend within their stated timescales. In contrast, the opinion of IPAs loss adjuster 
was that the damage was minor, and not consistent with water pouring through the property for a long period. I think it was reasonable for IPA to rely on the opinion of its loss adjuster.
Mr A says theres nothing in the cover that states a leak has to be of a certain level in order 
to be covered by the policy. However, to be clear, the policy doesnt cover damage. It covers 
emergency repairs. As Ive explained in my provisional decision, I would have only required 
IPA to cover the damage if the evidence supported that the damage was caused by IPAs 
delay (and wouldnt have happened anyway). 
Overall, I remain satisfied that IPAs compensation payment of £250 was reasonable for the 
inconvenience caused by its delay. I dont require it to cover the cost of putting right the 
damage caused by the leak.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that Inter Partner 
Assistance SA has paid Mr A fair compensation for the inconvenience he was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman