DRN-3953862
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the advice he received from Sanlam Investments UK Limited 
(Sanlam) to invest into a Savings Plan. Mr W says he has been financially disadvantaged 
because of this and he wants to be put in the position he would have been in but for the 
advice.
Mr W is represented by a third party in bringing his complaint, but for ease of reference I 
shall refer to Mr W in my decision.
What happened
In June 1989 Mr W was advised by Sanlam to invest into a Savings Plan. He invested £20 
per month until its surrender in October 2009. He invested a total of £4,880 and received 
£5,550 upon surrender, a gain of £670.
Mr W wasnt happy with the investment and complained to Sanlam. He said there was no 
evidence that such a long-term savings contract of 25 years was needed. He was single, 
living in rented accommodation and his circumstances would have likely changed over the 
medium term. He wasnt advised of the need for savings of at least three months worth of 
income and he was servicing a debt. There was no evidence he needed life cover. The 
charging structure of the Savings Plan meant it had to be held for the longer term to have 
any meaningful value and it was misrepresented as being appropriate for the medium term.
In response, Sanlam didnt uphold the complaint. It gave details of Mr Ws circumstances but 
there wasnt much paperwork available from the time of the sale to determine what was and 
wasnt discussed with Mr W. But it said most people had goals for short to long term, as did 
Mr W, and he held the Plan for 20 years which would suggest he was comfortable with its 
long-term nature.
It also said the Financial Ombudsman couldnt consider the complaint as it was brought 
outside of the time limits that applied. One of our ombudsmen considered this point and 
decided that it was a complaint this service could consider.
Our investigator who went on to consider the merits of the complaint didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said;
The investment wasnt unsuitable for Mr Ws mix of short, medium- and long-term life 
goals.
Mr W wanted capital growth and the Savings Plan allowed him to achieve that.
The contributions towards the life cover werent excessive and provided tax 
advantages.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator and asked that his complaint be passed on for 
decision by an ombudsman. So, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my provisional 
decision that I thought the complaint should be upheld. I asked both parties to give me 
anything more they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I 
said;
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
When the evidence I have for a complaint is incomplete or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means I 
base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr Ws circumstances and attitude to risk
In the absence of any information or evidence to show how Mr Ws attitude to risk 
was assessed I have to take into account what is known about his circumstances, 
what he has told us and consider whether the investment via the Savings Plan was 
suitable.
Despite the length of time that has passed, Sanlam has, helpfully, been able to give 
us some documents from the time of the sale. Those record that Mr W was 23 years 
of age, single, had no dependants, was employed and living in rented 
accommodation.
Mr W earned £10,000 per annum, which equated to a net income of £610. Mr W had 
a loan outstanding of £4,000. He had no investments but did have £1,000 in a 
building society account. Under the Future Needs/Expectations section of the 
factfind, and What financial arrangements have been made for a house purchase, 
retirement, or capital creation as examples, the response was No. Mr W wasnt 
contributing to a pension.
Under the Summary section his Clients objectives/Ambitions were recorded as 
being for marriage, children, cars, holidays, working abroad and owning his own 
business. He was advised to invest £20 a month into a Savings Plan which offered 
an investment benefit and life assurance of £738. The Savings Plan was 100% 
invested into the Managed Fund.
From the paperwork provided by Sanlam, I havent seen any evidence to indicate 
that Mr W had any investment experience. This suggests that Mr W would have been 
reliant upon the advice given to him by Sanlams adviser.
Sanlam hasnt been able to show us how it established Mr Ws attitude to risk. But I 
accept the sale took place over 30 years ago and its understandable there is little 
paperwork from the time of that sale. So, I would have expected Mr Ws attitude to 
risk having been agreed through discussion between him and the adviser.
I dont think it was unlikely Mr W was looking to save over and above the £1,000 he 
had with his building society. And in some instances, a first-time saver might be 
willing to take some level of risk with their savings for the potential of capital growth. 
Its not always the case that a first-time saver isnt willing to take any investment risk. 
But bearing in mind Mr W had limited savings, and this was his first time saving via 
an investment vehicle, I dont think its unlikely he would have erred on the side of 
caution in order to build up his capital in the first instance.
However, I cant know this for sure and Ive equally borne in mind Mr W was very 
young and the Savings Plan was for the longer term, so potentially Mr W could have been willing to take some level of risk over those terms and had the resources via his 
income to fund any losses to capital that may occur.
So, while its difficult to know what was discussed about risk and subsequently 
agreed between Mr W and his adviser, Ive looked at the investment advice and 
whether it was right for Mr W taking into account what is known about his 
circumstances.
The advice
The Savings Plan was 100% invested into the Managed Fund which I understand 
was the default investment fund out of Sanlams wide range of funds. And it had a 
life assurance benefit (or investment benefit if that was greater).
Ive seen a Savings Plan guide from November 1990  the year after Mr W started 
his Savings Plan  and the Managed Fund was said to be managed for growth and 
consists of substantial property elements, UK and international equities and fixed 
interest securities. There is no mention of Sanlams own risk rating of the fund. But 
as that guide is from the year following the date of sale, I dont think its unreasonable 
to assume the Fund make up in 1989 to have been very different. The description of 
the constituents of the Fund suggest that it was higher than a lower level of risk  
particularly the substantial property exposure which can be illiquid and the UK and 
international equities and the risks implicit in those type of investments.
While I accept the Savings Plan was sold over 30 years ago, the documentation 
provided by Sanlam from the time of the sale doesnt indicate that Mr Ws lack of 
investment experience or flexibility were properly considered.
Based on the evidence I have; I dont believe any reasonable attempt was made by 
the adviser to know its customer. It wasnt established what Mr Ws other financial 
expenses or commitments were. Theres no mention of what the loan of £4,000 was 
for, how it was to be repaid and when. It doesnt seem to have been established if  
Mr W had the capacity to hold the policies which would need to be retained for at 
least 25 years to show a worthwhile return over other shorter term priorities 
particularly bearing in mind that because of his young age, it wasnt unforeseeable 
that his circumstances may have changed.
So, while there will be a point at which an investor undertakes investment decisions 
for the first time, Im not satisfied, on the balance of probabilities that the Savings 
Plan was a suitable recommendation for Mr W.
I also have concerns about how the Savings Plan was described in the sales 
literature. Under the why save money? section of the Savings Plan document it 
says;
you have to build a safety net of savings to help you cope with those 
unexpected and unbudgeted expenses which afflict us all from time to time.
The cost of coping with a sudden family emergency. Repair bills for storm 
damage to your home or garden. Loss of Income due to accident or serious 
ill-health, to give you just a few possible examples. Looking on the bright side 
you will also want to build up your resources for more pleasurable expenses. 
That new car you have always promised yourself an extension to your home. 
A retirement cottage or perhaps the holiday of a lifetime.I think this implies a level of flexibility in the Savings Programme which wasnt 
actually the case. I dont think it was the type of investment that it would be useful to 
hold to cover any emergency needs. I say this because of the long-term nature of the 
charging structure meaning it would need to be held for the very long term of around 
25 years and as confirmed in the Savings Programme document;
Your Savings Programme is designed to grow steadily with the full benefit 
and worth being realised after about 25 years.
Ive also considered whether the recommendation was right for Mr Ws 
circumstances. He was only 23 years of age and I would assume he wanted to 
achieve some of his objectives of marriage, children, cars, holidays etc in a shorter 
time frame than 25 years. I dont think he was in a position to assess whether it was 
either practical for him at that time or whether it was something he wanted to do by 
committing to the Savings Plan which required regular monthly payments for around 
25 years to prove to be a worthwhile investment.
I dont think it unlikely Mr Ws circumstances would considerably change and were 
inevitably going to evolve such as job changes, a mortgage, family commitments etc 
along with the corresponding changing financial objectives. And I note Mr W wasnt 
contributing to a pension at that time.
Given  what I think is  the misleading nature of the brochure, the very long term 
nature of the investment and likely level of risk, I am satisfied on the balance of 
probabilities that if Mr W had been fully aware of the nature of this product, he would 
not have gone ahead with the recommendation.
And while I accept that it was prudent for Mr W to commit to saving, I am not 
persuaded that it has been shown it was suitable to recommend a policy with 
exposure to an underlying fund with stock market exposure which needed to remain 
in force over the very long term in order to give Mr W worthwhile returns. So even 
though Im satisfied that Mr W could likely afford the monthly £20 contribution for 
savings, I think the Savings Plan was inflexible and dont think it was structured to 
meet his likely needs over a shorter term than 25 years.
I dont think there needed to be such a risk taken or long-term commitment attached 
to Mr Ws savings. And equally I dont think it was unlikely that Mr Ws personal and 
financial circumstances would have changed significantly over the next 25 to 30 
years. Such a commitment, just for the purposes of saving for Mr Ws stated 
investment objectives, in my opinion wasnt necessary.
I am satisfied it was likely Mr W was looking to do something with his money, as 
opposed to simply leaving this money on deposit. I am therefore satisfied it should 
pay compensation based on investment loss i.e. compare how much he received 
back on the Savings Plan when he surrendered it with what he might have got via a 
more suitable investment product.
So, taking all of the above into account, provisionally, I think Mr Ws complaint should 
succeed.
To put things right I said that Sanlam should pay redress for the Savings Plan in comparison 
to the Bank of England base rates plus 1% over the period of investment.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision confirming they had nothing further to add 
for my consideration. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have replied and neither party has anything further for me to consider about 
the merits of the complaint, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, I 
confirm those findings and I uphold Mr Ws complaint. And Sanlam needs to put the matter 
right.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr W 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mr W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given    
Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To put the matter right, Sanlam needs to do the following;
For the Savings Plan, Sanlam should pay compensation of D + E, where:
A = a refund each of the monthly premiums paid to the dates of surrender;
B = a return on each premium in A at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded 
yearly, from the date it was paid to the dates of surrender;
C = the value of the policies at the dates of surrender;
D = (A + B) - C = the investment loss (if appropriate) at the dates of settlement; and
E = interest at 8% per cent per year simple on D from the dates of surrender to the 
date the redress is paid.
Compensation for capital growth on the policy premiums in B is not usually subject to 
income tax. However, if Sanlam considers that tax is payable on the interest, it should send 
a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr W may reclaim any tax overpaid from        
HM Revenue and Customs if his tax status allows him to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and Sanlam Investments UK Limited 
should put the matter right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman