Page 1 of 2Complaint
Mr E and Ms S are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) reported a late 
payment on their mortgage to credit reference agencies.
Background
Mr E and Ms S have a joint mortgage with Halifax. In October 2020, an attempt to collect 
their monthly repayment by direct debit was unsuccessful. Once they realised that this had 
happened, Ms S made arrangements for the arrears to be cleared by making a card 
payment direct to Halifax. Mr E and Ms S have said that they missed this specific payment 
due to Mr E experiencing serious ill health.
They were unhappy to discover that Halifax had shared the details of this late payment with 
credit reference agencies. Theyre worried about the impact that this marker will have on 
their credit rating in the future. In the circumstances, they think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Halifax to remove this information from their credit file. They provided 
evidence to show that they had the funds available in a separate savings account at the time 
and so couldve made the repayment. It was simply an oversight on their part that caused 
the payment to be missed and that this was justifiable given the circumstances.
Halifax disagreed and said it wouldnt remove the information from their file. Mr E and Ms S 
werent happy with its response and so they referred a complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that Halifax had an 
obligation to record accurate information with the credit reference agencies. As the 
information recorded was accurate, he didnt think Halifax was required to remove it.
Mr E and Ms S disagreed with the Investigators opinion. They said it was unfair for their 
account to have a negative marker on it for six years, particularly when they were only a few 
days late with their payment and that lateness was a result of a medical issue. Because they 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the Investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. The Investigator set out the relevant rules that are applicable in cases such 
as this one - in particular the guidance regarding credit reference agencies set out on the 
website of the Information Commissioners Office. 
DRN-2927324Page 2 of 2I can understand why Mr E and Ms S will be hugely disappointed by the implications of that 
guidance, particularly given that the payment was only a few days late. Nonetheless, Halifax 
has an obligation to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies. This 
information could be relied upon by other lenders when making credit decisions and so 
banks are expected to ensure that any information they record paints an accurate picture of 
a borrowers financial history. 
Ive looked at the evidence that has been provided about Mr Es health. While Im genuinely 
sympathetic to the difficulties he was experiencing back in late 2020, there is unfortunately 
no provision in the rules that would allow Halifax to change the recorded information to 
present a more favourable picture of his repayment history.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr E and Ms S, but I dont find that there are any grounds to 
uphold their complaint.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman