DRN-3195303
The complaint
Ms S brings this complaint on behalf of Mr K as his representative. Mr K complains Bank of 
Scotland plc (BOS) gave incorrect information regarding an early repayment charge, on his 
buy to let mortgage account. 
What happened
Mr K says after making enquiries with BOS about the possibility of raising finance for a new 
property purchase and improvement works, he was told he didnt meet BOSs criteria for 
further lending. As a result, it left Mr K having to look for another lender to provide the 
funding he needed, which involved him redeeming one of his buy to let mortgages (BTLM) 
held with BOS. Mr K says that despite checking with the advisor at BOS there was no early 
repayment charge (ERC) on this particular mortgage account, his solicitor was sent a 
redemption statement detailing that an ERC of around £7,000, was due. Mr K says he 
queried this with BOS, and he was told its advisor had made a mistake and it offered him 
£300 as an apology. Mr K says as a result of BOSs mistake, he was forced to sell shares 
and borrow monies from family members causing him financial loss, inconvenience and 
stress. Mr K feels BOS should waive the ERC and pay him damages for the trouble they 
have caused. 
BOS says it accepts a member of their staff did incorrectly advise Mr K there would be no 
ERC payable on the redemption of the BTLM, and says it seems the advisor mixed this 
BTLM with another Mr K held with them. BOS says they have apologised for this mistake 
and have offered to pay Mr K £300 by way of an apology. BOS says Mr Ks terms and 
conditions of his BTLM states an ERC is payable and he would have been reminded of this 
in his annual BTLM statement, so they cannot waive this.
Mr K wasnt happy with BOSs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
agreed BOS had made an error, when its advisor incorrectly informed Mr K there was no 
ERC due on his BTLM, as he was looking at another BTLM Mr K held with them. The 
investigator didnt support Mr Ks view the ERC should be waived, as this was part of the 
terms and conditions of the BTLM, and he was reminded of this in his annual mortgage 
statement, so it was fair to say Mr K would have been aware of this before he contacted 
BOS. The investigator says Mr K was made aware of the ERC  before he proceeded with his 
new property purchase and that was his decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand  it would have been upsetting for Mr K to learn a sizeable ERC was due if 
he were to redeem his BTLM, having been told earlier by an advisor from BOS, no ERCs 
were payable. When looking at this complaint I will consider if BOS acted correctly, when it 
subsequently told Mr K, an ERC would need to be charged on his BTLM, having once told 
him it wouldnt, and if its offer of compensation is reasonable. 
Mr Ks complaint centres around the fact he enquired specifically about ERCs on his BTLM 
and was told it wasnt payable, both over the telephone and email by BOS, and he feels 
given the problems this has caused him, BOS should waive any ERCs and adequately 
compensate him.
The first thing to say here is, BOS have accepted its advisor did incorrectly inform Mr K, that 
no ERC was due on the BTLM he was looking to redeem with them. 
From the information I have seen, Mr K initially discusses further funding options with BOS 
but is told, as he has multiple BTL properties, he didnt meet BOSs lending criteria. In the 
email chain between Mr K and BOS, that start in March 2021, its clear in the heading of 
those emails, the advisor refers to a different BTLM to the one Mr K was referring to, and this 
is where the confusion seems to arise. Thats not to say BOS havent made a mistake here, 
they have, and the mistake they have made is not that the ERC wasnt payable, but more 
that the advisor confuses this BTLM with another Mr K has with them, where the ERC wasnt 
owed. That said, its also reasonable to expect Mr K to have also checked his formal BTLM 
terms and conditions, where it would have clearly shown the ERC was due. So here, while I 
would have expected BOS to have provided a better service to Mr K and have checked the 
terms of the BTLM he was referring to, before telling him there was no ERC payable, that is 
not to say the ERC wasnt payable here.  
I say this, as part of the BTLM terms and conditions Mr K signed with BOS for this particular 
BTLM, it is clear an ERC was payable, as BOS later informed his solicitors when it provided 
the redemption statement. With that in mind, it is reasonable to expect Mr K to have read the 
terms and conditions and the annual statement he would have received that reiterated the 
ERCs payable. While I accept it would have been upsetting for Mr K then to find out his 
BTLM was subject to an ERC when the redemption statement arrived, it was before he 
proceeded with the new property purchase, and that was a decision he decided to make. 
Its worth pointing out that no ERCs have been charged by BOS here, as the BTLM hasnt 
been redeemed, but from the mortgage offer document I have seen, it appears that Mr Ks 
ERC period ends on 31 Jan 2022. So, if Mr K now wishes to redeem the BTLM, he could do 
so without an ERC, and if he wishes to take this action, Mr K should check with BOS that is 
still the case.  
Its not the role of this service to punish or penalise businesses when genuine mistakes like 
this occur, but to see banks like BOS, apologises for such mistakes, and pay a proportionate 
amount of compensation for the inconvenience caused, and I am satisfied that is the case 
here. BOS offered to pay Mr K £300 for the mistake they made, and while Mr K doesnt feel 
this adequately compensates him, I would suggest he contacts BOS, if he wishes to accept 
it, if that sum hasnt already been paid. 
While Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of BOS here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman