DRN-1519040
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) have applied charges to his credit 
card account which he feels are unfair and unreasonable.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr C and Tesco, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In June 2019 Mr C used his Tesco credit card to pay off a loan. Tesco charged him a 
transaction fee of £289.27 and then further interest charges.  
Mr C thought that these charges were excessive and unfair and so complained to Tesco. But 
Tesco argued that the charges had been applied inline with the terms and conditions 
applicable to the account and were therefore fair. 
Mr C was unhappy with Tescos final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that Tesco 
had done anything wrong. Mr C didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Tesco acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that 
Tesco has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
The starting point to this complaint is that Tesco say they sent Mr C a Notice (NoV) varying 
the terms and conditions on his account. That provided that it would be applying a cash 
handling fee of 3.99% to transactions involving the repayment of borrowings, for example 
loans. The change took place on the 31 May 2018 and Mr Cs transaction was over a year 
later.Mr C says he did not receive the NoV, but Tesco have provided evidence to show that it was 
sent through the post with his statement of April 2018. Mr C has told this service that he has 
never said he has not received his statements, particularly the statement of the 25 April 
2019. I have noted he has referred to the year 2019 but it is clear he was responding to the 
investigators view which mentioned 2018. I am satisfied he therefore meant to say 2018. 
It follows that on balance, it is more likely than not that the NoV was with his statement, but 
Mr C is mistaken in his belief that it wasnt. That being the case I am satisfied the NoV was 
sent to Mr C varying the terms and conditions on his account.
Mr C used his card in June 2019 to repay borrowings, that being the loan. Thus, looking at 
the varied terms and conditions on the account I can see Tesco have correctly applied the 
transaction fee of 3.99%, and so I cant say they have acted unfairly. In relation to the 
interest although Mr C paid off what he thought was the balance on his account, he did not 
pay off the transaction fee, meaning a balance remained. It follows that the outstanding 
balance would attract interest in line with the terms and conditions.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr Cs argument that he paid off what he thought was the full debt to 
Tesco within a short space of time, and whilst doing so was unaware of the variation to the 
terms and conditions of his account, I am satisfied that Tesco acted correctly. Although Mr C 
will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Tesco has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman