DRN-3064903
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc treated them unfairly when they 
asked to extend the term of their buy to let mortgage. They ask for compensation for their 
past and future losses.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a buy to let mortgage with TMW in 2011. The term was due to expire 
in mid-2020. In March 2020 Mr and Mrs B applied for a term extension. TMW rejected the 
application, saying Mr and Mrs B were in breach of the mortgage terms and conditions as a 
family member was living at the property. 
In early June 2020 TMW said it made an error. When Mr and Mrs B took out the mortgage 
the terms and conditions allowed them to let the property to family members. TMW offered 
£150 compensation for the upset caused by its error.
Mr and Mrs B say TMW should have extended their buy to let mortgage on the same terms. 
By the time it acknowledged its error Mr and Mrs B had taken out an equity release 
mortgage on their own property to repay the buy to let mortgage. They say TMW should 
compensate them for the additional costs involved. 
Our investigator said TMW made an error when it declined Mr and Mrs Bs application on the 
basis they were in breach of the mortgage terms and conditions. However, TMW said had 
the application proceeded it wouldnt have offered a term extension or new buy to let 
mortgage as Mr and Mrs B didnt meet its lending criteria. So the outcome would have been 
the same regardless of the error. The investigator said TMW should pay compensation of 
£300 (in total) for the upset caused by its error, which TMW agreed to do.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree, saying this allowed TMW to ignore contract law, the regulators 
rulings and its own letters to them. They say TMW offered them a term extension on the 
basis of their existing contract. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term of Mr and Mrs Bs buy to let mortgage was due to expire at the end of July 2020, at 
which point the balance was due to be repaid. TMW wrote to Mr and Mrs B in January 2020 
reminding them of this. It said theyd need to repay the loan or apply for an extension. While 
Mr and Mrs B say this was an offer to extend the mortgage term, I dont think thats 
reasonable. The letter simply said they could apply for a term extension. There was no 
guarantee that an application would be successful.
Mr and Mrs B did apply for an extension. They also asked about additional borrowing, but as 
this wasnt the cause of the problems here I wont refer to it further.
In March 2020 TMW declined Mr and Mrs Bs application for a term extension saying, 
wrongly, this was because Mr and Mrs B were in breach of the terms and conditions by 
letting the property to a family member. There were discussions through April and May about 
whether this was right, and whether an exception could be made to allow a term extension. 
By the time TMW acknowledged that Mr and Mrs B werent in breach of their mortgage 
terms theyd taken out an equity release mortgage on their own property and repaid the buy 
to let mortgage. 
TMW made errors. It was wrong to say Mr and Mrs B were in breach of the mortgage terms. 
It was wrong to decline their application for that reason. And it took too long to realise it had 
made an error. But this doesnt mean Mr and Mrs Bs application for an extension would (but 
for the errors) have been successful. 
Mr and Mrs B dispute that the term extension would have been declined. They want 
evidence of this. In fairness, I should point out theres no evidence that TMW would have 
offered an extension. In fact, the available evidence suggests it wouldnt have. 
TMW is entitled to make a commercial decision about its lending criteria. Its entitled to 
change its lending criteria from time to time. Since Mr and Mrs B took out their buy to let 
mortgage in 2011 TMW has changed its lending criteria. It no longer offers buy to let 
mortgages which allow family members to live in the property. It doesnt offer new buy to let 
mortgages that allow this. And it says it would not have extended the term of Mr and Mrs Bs 
buy to let mortgage on this basis. I think its unlikely TMW would have extended the term of 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage if it had fully assessed their application. 
Mrs B says the property lease has been extended and the property is worth much more than 
when they first took out the buy to let mortgage. She says the mortgage is affordable on their 
income, they always pay on time, their credit record is spotless, and their tenant pays on 
time. While I have no reason to doubt any of that, it doesnt change the outcome here. Mr 
and Mrs Bs application didnt meet TMWs lending criteria because members of their family 
live in the property.
Mr and Mrs B say their options were limited. It seems theyd expected the family members 
that live in the property to take out finance to buy the property and repay their mortgage with 
TMW but this hadnt been possible. Mr and Mrs B say they received advice that its now 
impossible to obtain a buy to let mortgage if a relative lives in the property. So they were 
unable to take out a buy to let mortgage with another provider. Understandably, Mr and 
Mrs B didnt want to ask their family to leave the property. Their say their own ages also 
limited their options. 
Mr and Mrs B took out equity release finance on their own home. I appreciate this is likely to 
be more expensive than a buy to let mortgage. But the term of their mortgage with TMW was 
about to expire meaning the balance was due to be repaid. As Ive said, I dont think TMW 
would have offered Mr and Mrs B a term extension or a new buy to let mortgage even if it 
hadnt made any errors. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require TMW to 
pay for the additional costs involved in Mr and Mrs B taking out an equity release mortgage. 
I dont agree that TMW made an offer to extend Mr and Mrs Bs buy to let mortgage on the 
same terms. It simply said they could make an application. While Mr and Mrs B say TMW 
breached the regulators rulings, they havent said how, or what ruling they refer to. Whether, 
as Mr and Mrs B claim, they had a contractual right to extend the mortgage term on the 
same basis would be for a court to decide. If Mr and Mrs B dont accept my decision, theyll 
be free to raise the matter in court if they wish to do so. 
I do agree that TMW made errors that must have been upsetting and I think its right that 
TMW pays compensation for this. Mr and Mrs B were told  wrongly  theyd breached the terms of their mortgage. It took too long for TMW to correct this. And Mr and Mrs Bs 
application was declined for the wrong reason, even if ultimately the outcome would have 
been the same. Taking this into account, I think £300 compensation (in total) is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to pay £300 
to Mr and Mrs B. If it has already paid the £150 it offered to Mr and Mrs B before the 
complaint came to us, it can deduct this from the £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman