DRN-3127871
The complaint
Mr S complains that PSA Finance UK Limited imposed unfair charges at the end of his 
finance agreement.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
Mr S changed address in November 2019 and the car was collected in February 2020. He 
says that he notified PSA of his change of address however it continued to send 
correspondence to the old address even after the car was collected. Mr S says he arranged 
for his mail to be forwarded.
The collection date was arranged with a third party acting on behalf of PSA and I see it made 
contact with Mr S by phone. I have presumed this is how Mr S became aware of the end of 
his agreement. 
In any event I am satisfied that Mr S had the missing items, but they were not readily 
available and the inspector was unable to wait for the 10 or so minutes required. The terms 
and conditions of the agreement Mr S signed say that: In the event that you do not return 
the Vehicle to us in good condition as defined in clause 18, you will liable for the costs of 
any repairs or maintenance required to be carried out. S 18 sets out in broad terms what is 
deemed to be acceptable.
In this case Mr S had the missing items and it seems unfair that he be penalised because 
the inspector was running late and needed to leave rather than collect the items. I gather Mr 
S offered to deliver the missing items but this was refused. He says he was told that he 
could dispute any charge PSA imposed. This is true, but I think he was given to understand 
that he was likely to be successful.
So I am not persuaded that Mr S was given full details of the collection arrangements in 
advance of collection and he had the items close to hand and had the agent waited this 
situation would not have arisen.
I appreciate that SA has offered a 25% reduction in the charge, but I do not consider it 
should have been levied on the first place.
Putting things right
 The charges for the missing items should be waived. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct PSA Finance UK Limited to:
Waive the charges for the missing items.
Remove any adverse information on the credit file due to any non-payment of this 
charge.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman