DRN-2005660
The complaint
Mrs G, as executor of the estate of Mr G, says HSBC Bank plc mis-sold Mr G a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr G bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Im sympathetic to Mrs Gs circumstances, and Im aware that shes put time and effort into 
making her complaint. Id like to assure her that Ive noted everything shes said, even if I 
havent referred to each point in this final decision. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Gs case. Mrs G may want to refer to the website for more information.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why:
HSBC hasnt been able to provide much documentation from the time the policy was 
sold. Thats not surprising, as the sale took place a number of years ago. But its 
provided a copy of part of the credit agreement Mr G signed. This includes a specific 
section about PPI which was described as Optional Cardholder Repayment Protector. 
Mr G signed that section of the form to show that he wanted the cover. 
So from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that HSBC made Mr G aware the PPI was 
optional and he chose to take it. 
It seems Mr G applied for the credit card by post, following a phone call with HSBC. So 
its not entirely clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr G. But even if HSBC 
did recommend the policy, it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for Mr G. Mrs G has 
said Mr G was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work. But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to his employer benefits and wouldve meant Mr G could 
use those benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr G wouldve had some use 
for the policy, despite his existing arrangements. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr G would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive thought about what Mrs G has said about the address details on the credit card 
application form. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr G didnt complete the form, so I think 
its likely that he added the relevant details. And I think its possible he may have included 
his employment address, rather than his home address. In any event, this point doesnt 
persuade me that the PPI was mis-sold.
Mrs G also says Mr G didnt claim on the policy when he was unemployed. Mrs G says this 
was because Mr G didnt know he had the cover. I can see why Mrs G might reach that 
conclusion, but I dont think I can safely say that not making a claim meant Mr G didnt know 
he had the policy or that the PPI was mis-sold. Its possible Mr G had forgotten the cover 
was in place.
Mr Gs estate may be able to make a retrospective claim on the policy for the time that Mr G 
was out of work. Mrs G may want to consider contacting HSBC to find out whether this is 
possible.
Mrs G also considers HSBC shouldve pointed out to Mr G that he could claim on the policy 
when he was unemployed. This is a separate matter to the mis-sale of the policy, so Mrs G 
will need to raise it as a new complaint if she has concerns about the banks actions. If she 
isnt happy with HSBCs response, she may be able to refer the matter to this service for 
further consideration.
Mrs G has also mentioned the difficulties she had pursuing her complaint when she first 
raised it with HSBC. I dont doubt the frustration this will have caused. But Im mindful that 
the sale of Mr Gs policy took place many years ago, and I accept that it may have taken 
HSBC longer than it wouldve liked to identify the relevant records. Im not persuaded that 
this point means I should uphold the complaint. 
This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Gs estate.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Gs estate because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr Gs estate.
But HSBC Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr Gs estate any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and the 
estate of Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman