DRN-2052977
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt allow him to withdraw cash he 
wanted from his current account; and didnt give him a proper explanation about why his 
request was being declined.
What happened
Mr T has a current account with Nationwide and he went to a branch to take out £3,000 in 
cash to buy a car. However, when the cashier was completing the security verification, there 
was a warning on Mr Ts account which meant they had to contact Nationwides financial 
crime department. This took some time, and Mr T was kept waiting for about an hour. The 
branch manager then declined to allow Mr T to withdraw the money he wanted and said they 
would look into the matter further and call him the following day. However, Mr T didnt 
receive any call back.
 
Mr T complained. He felt hed been discriminated against because of his appearance. 
Although he was able to withdraw cash from another account elsewhere to buy the car; the 
experience caused him anxiety and concern about what may happen if he wanted to make 
cash withdrawals in the future. He didnt feel he received a proper explanation about why his 
withdrawal was refused.
 
Nationwide said that where it considers a withdrawal to be potentially unsecure or 
suspicious, it wouldnt divulge any further information about the reasons for this. But it said 
that Mr T had been kept waiting a significant amount of time in the branch and hadnt been 
offered a drink. It also acknowledged that the branch manager hadnt called Mr T as theyd 
said. It apologised for this and credited Mr Ts account with £50 as compensation for the 
inconvenience.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Mr Ts cash withdrawal request exceeded Nationwides daily limit for on demand 
cash withdrawals and there was an alert raised on his account. The investigator said this 
was because of several reasons. As the cashier was unable to authorise the withdrawal, the 
decision to do so was at the branch managers discretion. The investigator said that the 
branch manager had been entitled to decline the withdrawal and didnt think Mr T had been 
treated differently to other customers. The investigator thought the £50 Nationwide had paid 
Mr T was fair to recognise the inconvenience he was been caused.
 
Mr T didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said the branch had initially agreed to let him withdraw the amount he wanted but then made 
him wait more than an hour before refusing it without reason. He feels the branch manager 
didnt tell him the truth as theyd said a block had been placed on his account and they didnt 
know why, rather than saying they did have the discretion to allow the withdrawal. He asked 
how Nationwide could make a judgement to decline the withdrawal without asking him any 
questions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ts strength of feeling about not being given an explanation about why 
he wasnt able to withdraw the cash he wanted from the branch, and how he was kept 
waiting while the staff looked to find out more information about the alert on his account. This 
will have been understandably frustrating and worrying.
However, Nationwide was entitled to decline his withdrawal. As the investigator has 
explained; this is in line with the terms and conditions of the account which set out when 
Nationwide may refuse to make a payment or allow a cash withdrawal.
The amount of cash Mr T asked for is more than Nationwides daily limit, and whilst the 
branch may have initially felt that they could accommodate it; this seems to have been 
before the cashier entered the details of the withdrawal request on Mr Ts account and saw 
the alert.
Nationwide has told us that this was raised by an automated system during the required 
security verification and it takes into account a number of different factors such as the 
amount requested and the account activity. 
 
Mr T has said that he doesnt have an issue with the withdrawal being declined, and that his 
complaint is more about how he was dealt with afterwards.
I know that he was kept waiting for some time in the branch while the cashier tried to contact 
the financial crime department to find the reason for this alert, however it seems that the 
colleagues they spoke to at the time couldnt explain what had caused it, and so couldnt 
give authorisation for the withdrawal to be made or the alert to be overridden. 
This was why it was left at the branch managers discretion, and they werent confident to 
allow the withdrawal to go ahead at that time. I think this seems reasonable when they 
couldnt be sure of the reasons why the alert had been raised. And it is likely that this would 
still have been the case, even if Mr T couldve accepted lower cash amount to bring it within 
the daily limit. 
I appreciate it will have been frustrating for Mr T not to have a more detailed explanation 
about why his withdrawal was being refused. I do understand the point that hes made that 
he may have been able to give information to overcome some of the concerns if hed been 
asked some more questions. However, this transaction was refused to protect the security of 
his money and his account. This is also why limited information was given to Mr T  to 
maintain that security. In the particular circumstances here, I dont think Nationwide was 
looking to treat Mr T any differently to any other customer when they are making a large 
cash withdrawal. 
Nationwide has apologised for the inconvenience Mr T was caused through the time he had 
to spend in the branch; and for the lack of the promised call back. It has also credited his 
account with £50, and I think that represents a fair resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that the compensation Nationwide has already paid of £50 is fair. I make no 
further award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman