DRN-1847331
The complaint
Mr D complains that Total Mortgage Network Limited (TMN) failed to follow his instructions 
to complete on his mortgage after a specified date, which resulted in an early repayment 
charge. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:  
Mr D told TMN about his early repayment charge in his mortgage fact find, but the 
details of the charge were not included as the instruction was for completion after 
this date. So Im satisfied that TMN were under clear instruction by Mr D not to 
complete on the mortgage until the expiry of the early repayment charge period on 1 
November 2019.
Although TMN were aware of the requirement to delay the completion of the 
mortgage, they failed to communicate this to the solicitors they had instructed. And 
neither did they act to rectify the matter at any time when the solicitors confirmed that 
they were aiming to complete by the end of September 2019.
Rather than asking the solicitors to delay completion, the brokers actually chased the 
matter up on 1 October 2019 to confirm that it had gone ahead  despite knowing of 
the requirement not to complete until after 1 November 2019. 
If the brokers had told the solicitors of this requirement as they should have, I 
consider that the completion would likely not have proceeded until after 1 November 
2019, and the early repayment charge would have been avoided. So Im satisfied that 
TMN ought to bear responsibility for this oversight and should reimburse the amount 
of the early repayment charge paid by Mr D.
I'm also satisfied that this matter has caused him distress and inconvenience, for 
which the investigator awarded £50 compensation. I consider that this amount is a 
fair and proportionate reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused, so I do not 
intend to award any further compensation on top of this. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Total Mortgage Network 
Limited to:
Reimburse Mr D the £1,111.02 he paid towards the early repayment charge; and
 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date it was paid by Mr D to 
the date of settlement. If TMN deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Mr D with the appropriate tax deduction certificate; and
 
Pay £50 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman