DRN-3179871
The complaint
Miss C and Mr N complain that their mortgage payments were reduced by Skipton Building
Society (Skipton). 
What happened
Miss C and Mr N took out a mortgage with Skipton in January 2019. It was for £135,000, 
payable over 18 years, with a fixed rate of 1.89% for five years and a variable rate thereafter. 
Monthly payments were £736.99. In 2020, Miss C and Mr N made monthly payments over 
and above those needed - of £1,640. And then on 30 September 2020, paid a lump sum 
of£11,779  so a total of additional payments of £13,419 were made. On 1 October 2020, 
Skipton wrote to them and said the balance of the mortgage had reduced to £111,858.44  
and monthly payments were reducing to £657.28 with effect from 1 November 2020.
Miss C and Mr N complained. They wanted to reduce the term of the mortgage by making 
increased payments. But because Skipton wanted to reduce the monthly instalments, the 
term was unchanged - they felt that Skipton was trying to charge more interest than they 
wanted to pay. They said the terms of the mortgage were clear  they could pay up to 10% 
of the original mortgage without penalty. There wasnt anything to say that payments would 
be reduced if lump sums were paid off. They wanted payments to remain at the original 
amount of £736.99 per month  so they could pay off the mortgage early. And  they wanted 
Skipton to show how theyd calculated the lower payments of £657.28.
In their final response in December 2020, Skipton said it was their policy to recalculate 
monthly payments where overpayments are greater than three times the monthly payments. 
This they had done, and the reduced payments were calculated. The mortgage anniversary 
ran from 1 February to 31 January  and because of the overpayments in 2020 - to leave the 
monthly payments at the old level would mean that Miss C and Mr N would go over the 
annual overpayment allowance and therefore incur charges. If Miss C and Mr N wanted to 
change the level of payments, they should ask Skipton for a contractual change of term  
this would involve an affordability assessment and a charge of £90. They couldnt provide a 
calculation of the new monthly payment because of the number of variables involved but 
confirmed that the new amount was accurate.
 Miss C and Mr N brought the complaint to us. Our investigator said Skipton had acted fairly 
and within the terms of their Mortgage Guide. Skipton agreed to waive their fee of £90 if Miss 
C and Mr N wanted to change their monthly repayment back to what it was.
Miss C and Mr N didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Miss C and Mr N had a mortgage which was originally £135,000 when it was taken out in 
January 2019. The terms were for an 18-year period, with a fixed interest rate of 1.89% for 
five years  and a variable rate thereafter. The Mortgage Illustration dated 29 January 2019 
said Overpayments of up to 10% of the original loan amount can be made to repay part of 
your mortgage The overpayment will reduce the balance of the account and the interest 
due will be recalculated immediately. The Mortgage Offer was also dated 29 January 
2019.
So  it was clear that Miss C and Mr N could pay off up to £13,500 each year without any 
penalty charges. And I can see thats what they did  they paid extra monthly amounts of 
£1,640 in 2020, plus an additional lump sum of £11,779 in September 2020  a total of 
£13,419  so, within the allowable amount. As a result of this, the mortgage balance had 
reduced to £111,858.44 by October 2020. Miss C and Mr N wanted to continue with their 
strategy of overpaying  to reduce the amount of interest payable and to reduce the term of 
the mortgage. They argue that Skiptons terms dont explain that they would reduce the 
monthly payments if overpayments were made.
Ive looked at the Mortgage Illustration and Mortgage Offer  and theres nothing to say that 
payments would be reviewed in such events. But  those documents also refer to Skiptons 
Mortgage Conditions. The Mortgage Offer says The Society is prepared to make a Loan 
upon the security of a mortgage  on the property to be mortgaged on the terms and 
conditions set out or referred in:
 this Offer
 the Mortgage Deed/Standard Security
 the Mortgage Conditions booklet.
The Mortgage Conditions booklet says: Overpayments - You can make overpayments over 
and above your regular contracted monthly payment at any time. By making regular 
overpayments of even a modest amount, you could significantly reduce your mortgage term 
and save yourself thousands of pounds as a result. Some of our mortgage deals may 
include early repayment charges if overpayments are made, so please discuss this with your 
adviser if its a benefit you would like to take advantage of. If you are making lump sum 
overpayments, these may trigger a recalculation of your monthly repayment amount.
Miss C and Mr N argue that the word may is a loose term  and say it doesnt give Skipton 
the right to change monthly payments in every case. On their point  I tend to agree with 
them here  and it implies that there would be a discussion about what was right for the 
customer having regard to their circumstances. And that discussion may, or may not, result 
in a change to the payments.
Skipton said in their final response that their policy was to review monthly payments where 
overpayments were more than three times the normal amount  but as Miss C and Mr N 
have said, that policy isnt laid down in any documents. While its reasonable for Skipton to 
have their own internal criteria about overpayments, I dont place much reliance on that in 
the context of this complaint.
Skipton also said they couldnt agree to leave the payments at the higher level as it wouldve 
led to Miss C and Mr N exceeding their annual allowance of £13,500, leading to a charge. 
But  as this was only up to 31 January 2021, I imagine that this wouldnt have been a 
concern to Miss C and Mr N  as they wouldve started a new mortgage year then  and 
recommenced making overpayments then.
But  the key point which determines the outcome of this complaint is  that Skipton have 
said that a change of term (such as Miss C and Mr N wanted)  means that they would have 
to undertake a full affordability assessment. This would cost £90  although Skipton have 
said to us that they would waive that. But I dont think thats right. Under the Mortgage 
Conduct of Business (MCOB) rules as set out by the FCA it says (in section 11.6.3) that 
there is no need to do an affordability assessment where a change in term is unlikely to be material to affordability. And  as Miss C and Mr N were making fairly substantial 
overpayments, it looks to me that they could afford to stay with the old repayments  and 
thereby reduce the term of the mortgage. And so  Miss C and Mr N should be allowed to go 
back to the old repayments without going through the assessment  if thats still their choice.
I can see that they contacted Skipton on 2 October 2020 about the letter theyd received. On 
that call  they shouldve been offered the option to stay with their old repayments, so 
Skipton were wrong not to do that.
Looking at the level of new payments  Miss C and Mr N want to see Skiptons calculations. 
Skipton say that they cant evidence these. I must say I find that odd  but given that my 
provisional decision is to let Miss C and Mr N stay on the old repayment plan, I dont think 
this is relevant anymore.
If Skipton had allowed Miss C and Mr N to stay with the old repayments, they wouldnt have 
been reduced from £736.99 to £657.28 from 1 November 2020. And so  they should now 
be allowed to make a lump sum payment of the difference since that time (about £948). And 
 this shouldnt count towards the annual early repayment allowance. And  if Miss C and Mr 
N still wish  they should be allowed to leave the monthly payments at £736.99.
Skipton made an error here. And I think its clear Miss C and Mr N had plans in place to 
make full use of the overpayment facility and had worked out how much they could pay 
based on the details set out in the mortgage offer. I think finding out unexpectedly that they 
wouldnt be able to operate the mortgage as planned was distressing for them. So I think 
its only fair that Skipton pay some compensation  and I think £200 is appropriate.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Miss C and Mr N agreed with what I said. They did say they found Skiptons response to 
their request to be disappointing and up to now  had always had a good service from them. 
They hoped that would continue.
Skipton showed us their Mortgage Conditions again and asked that we look at them in the 
context of the complaint. If Miss C and Mr N wish to change the term, then they will need to 
sign the necessary forms to do that. They agreed with the payment of £200 for their service 
falling below expectations on this occasion.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C and Mr N agreed with the provisional decision, and so did Skipton in terms of the 
compensation payment. They pointed again to their Mortgage Conditions and asked that 
we consider them. But  I had already taken them into account when looking at Miss C and 
Mr Ns complaint. So  I dont think theres anything new to be considered. And it seems 
appropriate that the necessary form of authority will need to be signed by Miss C and Mr N 
to change the term.
Therefore  my final decision is consistent with the provisional decision.   
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. And Skipton Building Society must:
Allow Miss C and Mr N to remain on their original monthly repayment of £736.99  if that 
is still their wish. And without having to pay a fee of £90.
Allow Miss C and Mr N to make a lump sum payment equivalent to the difference between 
the monthly payments of £736.99 and £657.28 - from 1 November 2020 to date. This 
should not count towards the annual overpayment allowance.
Adjust the interest on the account to remove any additional interest thats been charged 
on the higher balance since 1 November 2020.
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman