DRN-3418367
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC acted unfairly when it started to 
charge them monthly fees for a packaged bank account, called a Platinum account, which 
they had held for many years without paying fees. They think that Lloyds should continue to 
provide the Platinum account to them free of charge. 
What happened
For many years, Lloyds has charged customers a monthly fee for the Platinum account and 
provided several potential benefits in return. However, for much of this time, it also offered 
many customers, including Mr P and Mrs P, the opportunity to have the account free of 
charge if they kept over a certain amount, (usually £4,000) in the account. It called this 
arrangement a fee-waiver scheme. Mr P and Mrs P usually qualified to have their monthly 
fees waived under this scheme.
In 2021, Lloyds decided to end the fee-waiver scheme. It wrote to Mr P and Mrs P and told 
them it would start to charge them fees. However, Mr P and Mrs P believe that Lloyds had 
previously told them that any charges would only apply to new customers, not them. They 
therefore think its unfair for Lloyds to start to charge them.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint and thought
that Lloyds had acted reasonably when it withdrew the fee-waiver scheme from them. The
adjudicator didnt recommend that Lloyds should stop charging Mr P and Mrs P monthly fees 
for their Platinum account.
Mr P and Mrs P didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr P and Mrs Ps 
complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mr P and Mrs P and Lloyds have told us or sent us 
about the case and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Lloyds decided to remove the fee-waiver scheme from its Platinum account customers
during the early part of 2021. It was allowed to make changes like this, but to be fair to its 
customers I would have expected it to tell them what it was planning and give them 
reasonable choices. 
Lloyds has sent us a copy of the letter it wrote to Mr P and Mrs P about the change. The 
letter was entitled The fee-waiver on your Platinum account will soon end. It told Mr P and 
Mrs P that Lloyds would remove the scheme in September 2021, told them what the monthly 
fee would be and invited them to review whether the Platinum account would still be right for 
them. Through a weblink, it also provided details of other accounts, including some with no 
monthly fees. With this letter, Lloyds seems to me to have met its main obligations to Mr P 
and Mrs P. However, their belief that Lloyds told them the charge would only apply to new 
customers is obviously an important point in their complaint.
Mr P and Mrs P have not told us a great deal about their discussion with Lloyds about the 
change only affecting new customers. However, they have mentioned that it took place 
around two years before they made their complaint to Lloyds, which would probably be 2018 
or 2019. I accept their recollections of what Lloyds said at that time. However, I do not think 
this amounted to a commitment from Lloyds that the fee-waiver scheme would always apply 
to them. So, I think Lloyds was within its rights when it withdrew the scheme from them two 
years later. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr P and Mrs Ps complaint about
Lloyds Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to stop charging them for their Platinum account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2022. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman