DRN-2258526
The complaint
Mr B complains about what happened when he asked The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op)
to make an important overseas payment for him.
What happened
Mr B said that he tried to make a payment for overseas taxes, from an account held with Co-
op.
The payment failed, because the account was closed, but Mr B said Co-op only rang
him, it didnt write to him to tell him this. He said that he thought the call was a hoax. He rang
Co-op back some days later, and discovered the payment had failed.
Mr B said he wanted Co-op to explain more about what had gone wrong, but it didnt. And
the money wasnt returned to his account. Mr B said he checked the payment details, and
eventually discovered that he now has to make this annual payment using the SEPA direct
debit system. He input his Co-op account details, but was told that Co-op doesnt use this
system. Mr B said he asked Co-op if it knew of any UK bank that used SEPA, but all it said
was that he could try to make the international transfer again.
Mr B said that he is partially deaf, and additionally suffers from a condition which makes
stressful situations, and talking on the phone, very difficult for him. He said he could email
Co-op, but he didnt want to keep sending his account details by email to confirm who he
was. Mr B prefers communication by letter. He thought Co-op shouldve written to him, but it
wouldnt do so.
Mr B told us he hadnt expressed a preference for written communication to Co-op. So Co-
op was unaware he had a disability that made communication on the phone potentially
stressful and upsetting for him. Mr B said hed never had to ask Co-op to communicate with
him by letter in order to assist him with his disability, because Co-op had previously always
written to him as a matter of course.
Mr B said hed paid £8 for an international transfer, and £20 further before Co-op would give
him his money back. He said he wanted that back. He thought Co-op had let him down, and
its customer service had been poor.
Mr B has since managed to make a payment for his overseas taxes, by asking someone
else who has an overseas account to do this for him. His money has been returned by Co-
op, and it has refunded the fees it charged for the transfer.
Co-op said it wasnt responsible for the failed payment. It had tried to contact Mr B when the
payment failed. It had emailed him promptly. But unfortunately there was a mistake in the
email address it held for him, and Mr B didnt receive that. Co-op had tried to ring Mr B, but
he didnt want to speak to the bank. Co-op had then asked Mr B to go into a branch, but had
said that wasnt possible. Co-op then communicated with Mr B by email, and asked for his
account number and sort code to identify him. Co-op said that this was secure, and was an
additional service it had offered Mr B to try to help him, on top of what it would normally do.
And Co-op said it does use SEPA.
Co-op knew about Mr Bs partial deafness, and said Mr B could communicate with it using
type talk if he wished.
Co-op paid Mr B £30 to cover fees it had charged him for the failed payment, and £25 for a
delay in replying to his complaint. It thought it had done enough to make up for what had
gone wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think it was Co-ops
fault that Mr B didnt get the explanation of why his payment failed until almost two months
after he tried to make the payment. Co-op had tried to contact Mr B much earlier than that.
Co-op did make a mistake when it asked Mr B to call it, as hed already told it about his
medical condition. Our investigator said Co-op will now discuss options to resolve the
communications issue with Mr B over secure messaging.
Our investigator said that Co-op does have an option to make SEPA payments, which Mr B
has used, but he couldnt hold Co-op responsible for how the authorities Mr B wanted to pay
would accept a payment. He said that Co-op had paid £30 to cover the cost of charges paid.
Our investigator said that he wouldnt ask Co-op to take any further action.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he still cant make a SEPA direct debit payment through Co-op.
He said the payment he made in September was due in October, but Co-op didnt return the
money to him until November.
Mr B said that Co-op wouldve known that he didnt get the email telling him about the
problem, because it wouldve been returned to Co-op. And it didnt call him on his landline. It
rang his mobile which Mr B thought was a hoax call. Co-op then held his money in a secure
account that he couldnt access. He thought it shouldve written to him, or called his landline.
And he said that there were emails during this time, that he didnt think wed seen.
Our investigator said that we had the email correspondence which started on 28 October,
when Co-op updated the email address it held for Mr B.
Our investigator said that Co-op had tried to contact Mr B when it knew the payment was
unsuccessful, and it had refunded all charges. And the payment failed because the account
Mr B had tried to pay into was closed.
Our investigator said that our service cant make Co-op accept SEPA direct debits. We
arent a regulator. Mr B said if Co-op wasnt going to accept SEPA direct debits, it should
open an overseas account to allow its customers to pay bills through that.
Our investigator asked Co-op why the money wasnt put back into Mr Bs account straight
away. Co-op said that it needed to know Mr Bs intentions for the money, in particular if he
wanted Co-op to send the money somewhere else instead. Co-op said this took longer,
because Mr B wouldnt discuss this over the phone, he wouldnt provide information by
email, and at first said he wouldnt visit the branch. On 10 October, Mr B said he would
contact the beneficiary to get new payment details and then come back to Co-op. Co-op said
it didnt hear from Mr B again until 12 November, when he went into a branch and asked for
the money to be paid back to him. The money was paid back on 14 November.
Mr B said he thought hed asked for his money back much earlier than this. And he said he
was initially told he would have to pay further fees to get the money back. It wasnt until he
spoke to someone in a branch that he was told Co-op would refund his money in full.Because our investigator and Mr B didnt agree, this case was then passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
There are two parts to Mr Bs complaint. Mr B complains about what happened when 
a payment he asked Co-op to make to pay an overseas bill failed. He thinks the 
service he received then, in particular the efforts to contact him, fell below an 
acceptable standard. But the second, and I think the core concern that Mr B raises, is 
that Co-op doesnt allow SEPA direct debits to take money from his account. He says 
it should do that, and all other EU countries do this except the UK.
Ill deal with this first, as the answer to this is relatively straightforward. I understand 
Mr B finds stressful news difficult, so I should note that this isnt likely to be what he 
will want to hear. In fact, not all EU countries do allow SEPA direct debits. And Co-op 
isnt obliged to do this. So Co-op isnt doing anything wrong by not providing a SEPA 
direct debit facility on Mr Bs account. Ill explain the underlying position briefly.
The Single European Payments Area, or SEPA, system applies to all EU member 
states, and a few additional countries. It covers several ways of making cashless 
transfers, including direct debits. The SEPA direct debit system applies in all states 
that use the Euro as a currency. But in countries that are in SEPA and dont use the 
Euro as their currency, the only obligation on banks is to allow SEPA direct debits 
from accounts denominated in Euros.
Mr Bs account with Co-op isnt denominated in Euros. So there is no obligation on 
Co-op to allow SEPA direct debits from Mr Bs account. If Mr B needs to make such 
payments in future, then he may need to open a different account, if he hasnt done 
so already.
Ill now turn to considering the service Mr B received after his payment failed. Co-op
attempted to contact Mr B using email and a phone call. Im aware that Co-op held 
an incorrect email address for Mr B, and that a phone call about a stressful issue isnt 
suitable for him. But Mr B has confirmed that he hadnt told Co-op that he wouldnt be 
able to take calls at this point. And I dont think Co-op had realised its email hadnt 
reached Mr B.
Unfortunately, many banks dont monitor accounts to see if emails are returned. I 
understand that it wouldve helped if Co-op had written to Mr B at this point, but I 
dont think it acted unreasonably using these methods to try to contact him.
I know it took some time to work out a method that Mr B could use to communicate 
effectively with Co-op. And I note that on at least one occasion, Co-op responded to 
Mr Bs email saying he was partially deaf by asking him to call the bank. I dont think 
that was appropriate. Ill bear that in mind when Im thinking about compensation.
But I also note that Mr B has said he didnt want to tell Co-op that he was unable to 
use the phone for reasons other than partial deafness. I dont think Co-op shouldve 
realised at any point that there was something else wrong, which meant Mr B wasnt 
able to use the phone. And I think that Co-op did eventually try to support Mr B, by 
communicating with him by email. It had said it would prefer not to do that.I can understand Co-op would prefer not to use emails, as it would need to be more 
careful about what information it included in an email than in a secure message. But 
Co-op did then put in place emails to Mr B. It asked him to include his sort code and 
account number, to identify himself. Although I understand that Mr B was concerned 
about this, an account number and sort code arent things that are usually kept 
entirely secret and secure. They used to be printed on cheques, and although 
cheques have partly fallen out of use now, the numbers are still usually printed on 
debit cards. I also need to bear in mind that this was part of a work-round Co-op had 
put in place to try to help Mr B. I dont think it was unreasonable for Co-op to ask Mr 
B to provide a sort code and account number when he emailed it.
Mr B initially tried to make a payment in September. His money was eventually 
refunded in November. Part of the delay in this case has been caused by changes to 
the overseas tax payment system, which Mr B wasnt aware of. Mr B asked Co-op to 
make the payment, which was to a closed account, on 9 September. On 10 October, 
he said hed get new payment details for Co-op. On 28 October, he asked Co-op to 
make the payment for him. I dont think it wouldve been appropriate for Co-op to 
make a personal tax payment for Mr B, even if it had someone with the language 
capabilities to do so. I dont think Co-op had to do that for Mr B, and for the reasons 
Ive explained above, I dont think it was able to.
Ive looked at Mr Bs correspondence with Co-op carefully, and I cant see that Mr B 
had clearly explained to Co-op that he was only able to pay using a SEPA direct 
debit payment, until 11 November. But when he did that, Co-op didnt explain to Mr B 
that it doesnt allow SEPA direct debit payments, or how he might otherwise be able 
to make his payment. I understand Mr B later got more help from his local branch on 
this issue. I think it wouldve helped if Co-op had offered Mr B that help, and as a 
minimum, I think Co-op ought to have explained the position on SEPA payments 
clearly to Mr B at that point. I cant see that its done so.
Mr B eventually found someone with an overseas bank account, who was able to 
make the payment on his behalf. He then asked Co-op for his money back, and it 
was refunded to him. Co-op has also now refunded all the charges Mr B paid for the 
failed transfer.
Co-op said it paid Mr B back his money within a couple of days of him asking it to do 
so. It hasnt explained why it kept Mr Bs money in a secure account for such a long 
time. It said it wanted to know if he was intending to make another transfer, but its 
not clear why it wanted the money to stay in a secure account until Mr B decided 
that. So Im not clear why it didnt just pay back money that was returned when the 
transfer failed into Mr Bs account straight away. If there was a reason for this, I think 
Co-op shouldve explained this at the time, and it didnt.
Ill bear in mind when I think about compensation that Mr B doesnt appear to have 
asked Co-op to pay this money back to him before 12 November, but Ill also bear in 
mind that Co-op hasnt explained why he should have to ask for it back.
Co-op has paid Mr B £25 in compensation, and refunded £30 of fees. I do think Co-
op has made some mistakes in this case, which Ive set out above. And I dont think 
that what Co-op has already paid is quite the right amount to make up for those 
mistakes. So Ill ask Co-op to pay a further £100 now. I think that provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Co-op wrote to explain why it hadnt given Mr B the money back right away. Mr B wrote to 
make some further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Co-op said that its Foreign Team had advised that if a foreign currency transfer does fail, it 
never just pays the money back to a customer. It says thats because, if it did, the customer 
loses through exchange rates. So it will always contact the customer first to see if they want 
to provide new details and ask Co-op to try the payment again. 
I think that is a reasonable response for Co-op to make. But I still think, as I set out in my 
provisional decision, that it wouldve been better if Co-op had told Mr B this rather sooner.
Mr B said he would find it helpful if I set out a detailed timeline of events. He has asked a 
number of detailed questions about what happened, and exactly when, including when Co-
op knew about problems and when it took steps to contact him. 
I wont set out a full and detailed timeline here, because this wouldnt change my 
understanding of this complaint, or my award in this case. I understand that might assist Mr 
B, but our service is designed to provide an informal dispute resolution, not to provide a 
detailed audit of events. 
I have provided additional details of timings, where those might assist with concerns Mr B 
has raised now.
Mr B said when Co-op initially told him the payment had failed, it didnt explain why, and at 
first refused to do so. Mr B said it took three weeks to get the relevant information (that the 
beneficiary account had closed) from Co-op. I dont think thats quite right. I can see Co-op 
told us it both rang and emailed Mr B about the failed payment as soon as it knew about this, 
on 13 September. Mr B told us it was some time before he was able to call Co-op back, and 
I understand that he spoke to Co-op on 10 October. Co-op has told us that it emailed Mr B 
on 14 October, to explain why the payment had failed. 
But we know that towards the end of October Co-op discovered that the email address it 
held for him wasnt spelled correctly. I think thats why Mr B didnt receive this information 
until later in October.
Mr B also requested a number of amendments to my provisional decision. I wont add those 
amendments in above, because my provisional decision serves to record what was said to 
both sides before I reached this final view, but I will note Mr Bs points here. 
Mr B said hed paid £8, and been asked for a further £20, before Co-op would return the 
money he had tried to transfer. I can see that £20 in fees was charged, and refunded onto 
his account. 
Mr B noted Id said he didnt want to speak to the bank, Mr B said that he believed it was a 
hoax call and was unprepared to speak to the bank. I did take Mr Bs concerns about talking 
to the bank on the phone into account when I reached my provisional decision.
Mr B wanted to note that where Id said Co-op then communicated with Mr B by email that 
this contact wasnt initiated by Co-op. He initiated it, against Co-ops great reluctance. Mr B said he really only received one helpful e-mail. Ive read this email exchange. I think Co-op 
did initiate email contact with Mr B, but it was initially emailing to ask him to call, and its 
earlier emails didnt reach him. I explained in my provisional decision my view of Co-op 
preferring not to use emails to communicate with its customers.
Mr B said that when Co-op asked him to go into a branch, he had pointed out that was a 2 
hour round trip and he was reluctant to do so. Mr B said he did finally persuade the bank 
briefly to communicate by e-mail as a result of which he was given the information he had 
previously been refused about the reason the attempted payment had failed. On Thursday 7 
November the bank asked for his account details and these were provided on Friday 8 
November, but on Saturday 9 November and again on Monday 11 November the bank yet 
again asked for his account number and sort code, which having already given once he was 
unprepared to do again. His reply I have already given the details. They did not change over 
the weekend ended the e-mail contact. 
Again, I took account of this email chain in my provisional decision. I said then that I did not 
consider it unreasonable for Co-op to ask Mr B for his account details. I know Mr B had 
given them once, but for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think it was then unreasonable for 
Co-op to ask again.
Mr B said he didnt remember any reference to type talk, and he doesnt use that anyway. 
Im satisfied this was offered to Mr B, in a letter dated 7 February 2020, as a possible way of 
avoiding problems in the future. Ive not seen anything to suggest to me that Mr B had 
already made Co-op aware he didnt use this service, so I dont think this was an 
inappropriate suggestion for Co-op to make at that time.
Mr B said he wasnt sure of the accuracy of the statement in paragraph 6 of page 2 ....SEPA 
payments, which Mr B has used, ...... He said that although he had used SEPA since, he 
hadnt at the time of the issues set out here. 
Mr B has told us he has previously made overseas payments to cover this same annual bill, 
and I think its most likely that these were made through the SEPA system. So I think he had 
used the SEPA system before he tried to pay this bill. Payment details for this bill have 
changed, and it now requires not just the ordinary SEPA system, but SEPA direct debit.
Mr B then said he was uncomfortable with the sentence beginning Co-op said this took 
longer, because Mr B wouldnt discuss this over the phone, he wouldnt provide information 
by email, and at first said he wouldnt visit the branch.... even though he appreciated this 
was the banks viewpoint. He wanted me to add further text here. Im sure that Mr B will 
understand that as an impartial service, we need to reflect the views and representations of 
both sides in any decision we take. This sentence in particular records the representations of 
Co-op, I dont think it would be appropriate to make changes here. 
Mr B also said that Co-op had said that Mr B told it he would get new payment details for the 
transfer on 10 October, then didnt revert again until 11 November. Mr B thought that was a 
serious mistake by Co-op. He said he was only aware of the reason why the payment failed 
on 28 October, when Co-op told him the account he was trying to pay into had closed. And 
he said that there were a number of emails between him and Co-op between 28 October 
and 11 November, so Co-op was wrong to say it didnt hear from him again until 12 
November. 
I think what Co-op was talking about here was why it hadnt returned Mr Bs money earlier. 
This comment was made in response to a direct question about this. And in reply, Co-op 
said Mr B had at first indicated he would retry the payment, but then not asked for his money 
back until 12 November. I havent seen anything to suggest this is inaccurate.Mr B said that he now knew that Co-op offers a Euros account. He wanted us to find out for 
him when this was opened, so he could see whether this happened in response to problems 
like his. But that wouldnt affect my view of this case, or my award, so Ill leave it to Mr B to 
ask Co-op for that information. 
Ive reconsidered this case, and considered the further points made by both sides, but I 
havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc must pay Mr B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman