DRN-3460668
The complaint
Miss T complaints that Capital One (Europe) plc lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss T applied for a credit card with Capital One in November 2019. The credit card account 
was opened with a credit limit of £200 which never increased.
 
Miss T says that Capital One shouldnt have provided her with the credit. She says it didnt 
take account of her financial situation at the time and that it should have refused her credit. 
She says Capital One didnt check it was affordable for her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. They didnt think Capital One had done 
anything wrong in its lending decisions.
 
Miss T disagreed. She didnt explain why, but as she didnt agree the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Capital 
One acted unfairly and lent to Miss T irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Capital One needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss T 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Miss Ts borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Capital One has provided a copy of the checks it completed when opening Miss Ts account. 
It says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Miss T in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Capital One saw that Miss T had been in default on a payday 
loan about 18 months before. But this alone wasnt necessarily a reason not to lend to her. 
The other credit checks showed she was managing credit well with other lenders.  It also 
asked Miss T her income and Miss T told Capital One that she was earning £35,000 a year. 
Taking into account all of her open credit accounts at the time of applications Capital One 
considered Miss T could comfortably manage a further credit line of £200. And I think this 
was a reasonable conclusion to reach.
Based on this a credit limit of £200 appeared affordable and Miss T didnt appear to be 
overindebted. Overall, Im satisfied that the checks Capital One completed were reasonable 
and proportionate in the circumstances and it didnt make an unfair lending decision. 
I can see that during the time the credit card account was open that Miss T missed some 
repayments and eventually defaulted on the account. But I havent seen anything to suggest 
Capital One did anything wrong in the way it managed this. 
Miss T provided evidence that complaints she made about other credit and loan accounts to 
other businesses were upheld by them.  I cannot comment on those complaint outcomes but 
I am satisfied that I have taken into account all the relevant information in this particular 
case.
 
On balance, I dont think Miss T lost out as a result of anything Capital One did wrong
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint. It follows that 
Capital One (Europe) plc, does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman