DRN-3461955
The complaint
Mr H complains Alwyn Insurance Company Limited unfairly withdrew cover for a claim he 
made under a legal expenses policy.
What happened
Mr H has a policy which provides cover for various legal expenses. He wished to pursue 
legal avenues in order to obtain possession of his property. Funding of the claim was initially 
accepted however it was later withdrawn. The solicitors in charge of the case, felt prospects 
of success for the claim fell below the 50% threshold required by the policy for funding. 
Mr H believes funding for the case was incorrectly removed by Alwyn and the prospects of 
success for the legal case meets the requirements for funding to continue. Mr H believes the 
solicitors charged with the conduct of his legal case acted incorrectly and to his detriment. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and let Mr H know she didnt think Alwyn had done 
anything wrong. She explained the policy does have a requirement for prospects of success 
to be above 50% for funding to be provided and that Alwyn it is entitled to rely on the expert 
legal opinion it is provided with in that respect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr H, and by Alwyn, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs legal expenses policy says cover is available 
provided ..there must always be a more than 50% chance that you will:. d) 
succeed in enforcing a judgement or obtaining a legal remedy which we have agreed 
to:. 
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its 
unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to 
bear the cost if advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurer to either. 
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for me to 
evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, Ill look at whether the insurer 
has acted fairly. As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, I 
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless I think it was obviously 
wrong or based on factual mistakes.
In this case Alwyn obtained the advice of a firm of solicitors and they were of the 
opinion, based on the information available that, as the claim progressed, its chances 
of success fell below that required by the policy for funding to continue. Ive 
considered the assessment and Im satisfied it is properly written and well-reasoned. 
And it has been obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer. So, I havent seen anything 
to suggest it would be unreasonable for Alwyn to rely on it or that it acted unfairly in 
withdrawing cover for the claim. 
While I realise Mr H believes the assessment of prospects is wrong, that isnt 
sufficient for the policy requirement to be overturned. He would need to provide 
contrary legal opinion on the merits of his claim, at his own cost if he wishes to 
challenge this matter further. If that opinion is supportive then Alwyn should 
reconsider his claim. 
I understand Mr H has concerns about how the firm of solicitors have conducted the 
legal claim however it is not within my remit to look at the actions of solicitors. They 
have their own professional standards and complaints process that can be followed if 
Mr H is unhappy.
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Alwyn Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman