DRN-2570248
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy she is being charged success fees by Quickly Finance Limited trading as
Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) for successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claims. She
said she didnt authorise FTR to make.
What happened
In January 2019 Mrs R signed several letters of authority (LoA) asking FTR to pursue PPI
claims on her behalf. Mrs R said shed made it clear she only wanted FTR to pursue store
cards shed had. Mrs R said her ex-husband had previously claimed PPI with one of her
lenders Ill call H.
In April 2019 lender H offered Mrs R compensation for mis-sold PPI. And shortly after FTR
asked Mrs R to pay their success fee. She complained to FTR.
FTR said Mrs R had asked them to pursue a PPI claim for her, and shed completed the PPI
questionnaire for lender H. They said theyd submitted her claim to lender H, so their fee
was justified as her claim was successful.
Mrs R wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that he didnt think Mrs R knew that FTR were progressing her claim for
lender H as shed experienced a different process for her other claims. He said FTR should
waive their fee.
FTR didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint.
Both parties should now send me any further information or comments they would like me to
consider before the date given at the top of this decision.
I can understand Mrs Rs frustration as she doesnt think she authorised FTR to act on her
behalf. But in making my decision I need to determine whether Mrs R had authorised FTR to
act on her behalf. And if she had, whether she let them know she no longer wanted them to
work for her. And whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mrs R.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI in January 2019. And
LoAs were completed for several of Mrs Rs lenders including lender H. The personal
details in the application correlate with the personal details Mrs R has given this service. So,
on balance I think Mrs R completed the on-line forms. FTR has said to pursue a claim lender
details were needed, and these were supplied.
On completing the application, a LoA was generated, populated with the above information
for Mrs Rs lenders. And the LoA for lender H shows its for mis-sold PPI on any loans,
credit cards, mortgages, storecards and overdrafts that Mrs R might have had. FTRs terms
and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Mrs R had agreed to them.
FTR has said that their terms and conditions show that their fee is justified. So, Ive looked at
these. FTRs terms and conditions say:
FTR will carry out a free PPI check Once PPI has been identified we will notify you
and upon your instructions will submit your complaint to the lender
So, I have looked to see whether FTR notified Mrs R that she had PPI. And I can see from
FTRs notes that in February 2019 they sent a link to Mrs R for a PPI questionnaire to be
completed. This questionnaire was completed and returned and FTR took this to be Mrs Rs
instruction to submit her claim to her lender. I can see FTR submitted a letter of complaint
along with the PPI questionnaire and the signed LoA to lender H in February 2019. And
lender H acknowledged receipt of these in March 2019. So, Im satisfied that FTR was
authorised by Mrs R to act on her behalf to pursue a PPI claim for her.
In April 2019 lender H told both Mrs R and FTR that her claims had been successful for two
loans she had with them where PPI had been found. The letter also gave the amount of
compensation that would be paid. The letter also said:
Ive therefore divided the total payment due equally between you and the other account
holder. Ill contact them separately.
Mrs R has said her ex-partner had made the claim for PPI with lender H and that this had
already been paid out. But I dont think lender H would have paid out twice on any PPI
claims. And I think they have responded to separate claims made by the joint account
holders as their letter is addressed only to Mrs R. And by copying in FTR to the
correspondence I think shows lender H recognised them as being Mrs Rs representative.
FTRs terms and conditions also say:
Your claim is deemed successful if we send a Letter of Complaint and you
go on to receive an offer from the lender which you accept Upon signing this agreement
you will have 14 days to cancel the agreement without any consequence or charge
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mrs R cancelled her agreement with FTR. And she
continued to work with them with the other claims she had with her other lenders. So, I dont
think FTR would have known Mrs R didnt want them to continue with her claim with lender
H.
The agreement Mrs R had with FTR was based on a No Win No Fee. This means FTR
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually
undertook. Any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. Where a claim
was successful, FTRs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mrs Rs claim was
successful, FTRs fees were charged in line with what Mrs R agreed to and reflect the fee
cap thats in place for PPI claims.
Responses to my provisional decision
FTR didnt provide any additional comments for me to consider.Mrs R was understandably disappointed with the provisional decision as she thought the 
matter had been resolved in her favour. But as explained when either party disagree with our 
investigators outcome, they can ask for an ombudsman to consider. And this is what FTR 
did as they didnt agree with our investigator.
Mrs R said that she had made it clear to FTR that she only wanted them to consider PPI in 
respect of any storecards that she had. But I can see Mrs R had asked FTR to pursue PPI 
claims against several of her lenders. And for one of her lenders Ill call S she did amend 
the LoA to reflect she only wanted FTR to look into PPI against her storecards. 
But the complaint Mrs R has brought to us is about FTR charging their fee for a successful 
claim against her lender H. And as I outlined in my provisional decision the LoA for lender 
H clearly shows it was an authority for FTR to look into PPI claims for any loans, credit 
cards, mortgages, storecards and overdrafts that Mrs R had with them. The LoA hadnt been 
amended to show Mrs R only wanted PPI being looked into for just her storecards. So I cant 
say FTR had done anything wrong in submitting Mrs Rs claim to lender H. And lender H 
saw FTR as being Mrs Rs representative.
And as I said in my provisional decision, I havent seen any evidence that Mrs R asked FTR 
to cancel her agreement. I know Mrs R will be disappointed, but Ive not been persuaded by 
her comments to change my thinking. 
Mrs Rs agreement with FTR was on a No win No fee basis, as the claim against lender H 
was successful, Im satisfied FTRs fee is justified.
Mrs R has said her financial circumstances have changed and she would now have difficulty 
in paying FTRs fee. In these circumstances Id expect FTR to work with Mrs R in a positive 
and sensitive manner in arranging any repayment.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman