DRN-3560539
The complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited have breached their terms and conditions in how they 
have charged him interest.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr M was temporarily out of employment due to the effects of the 
pandemic. He accepted an offer from MBNA to transfer a balance to them on a promotional 
interest free rate and he incurred a balance transfer fee of £47.10. Mr M says that he made 
purchases on the credit card and continued to pay them off in full, every month as normal. 
This would leave the balance transfer outstanding balance which he was benefitting from the 
promotional interest free rate. 
Mr M says that he noticed after a couple of months that he was paying interest on his 
purchases, despite paying them off before the due date. Mr M says that MBNAs terms and 
conditions clearly state that any payments to his account would be allocated to the 
transactions which attract the higher interest rate. He also says there is a clause in the terms 
which state that unless he pays the total outstanding balance (including any outstanding 
balance transfers), then he would be charged interest on the purchases, no matter what 
payments he made.
Mr M contacted MBNA to discuss this in April 2021. MBNA said that the interest he had been 
charged was correct as Mr M had not cleared the full statement balance and that in terms of 
the allocation of his payments, his payments were allocated to the highest charged interest 
balance shown on a statement first, but as they were explaining this to Mr M the telephone 
line was disconnected. 
Mr M made a payment of £800 with the intention that this would clear his purchases that 
hadnt yet appeared on his statement. But as a result of this payment, it reduced the 
outstanding balance transfer amount instead. Mr M paid off his outstanding balance in June 
2021.
Mr M made a complaint to MBNA. They did not uphold his complaint. They said that they 
could understand what he was looking to achieve when he arranged the £800 payment, so 
they felt it was fair to refund the interest he was charged on his May and June statements  
a total of £29.52. MBNA also said that they would refund £36.27 of his balance transfer fee 
as Mr M decided to pay off his full balance in June. They said that this was a 77% refund as 
he hadnt taken advantage of the full term of the promotional offer.
MBNA said that they do not charge interest on purchases made during Mr Ms latest 
statement period if he paid off his full balance (including any balance transfers and money 
transfers) by the payment due date and he had also paid in full his previous months balance 
by the due date. They said this information is made available in the terms and conditions 
relating to his account and is also included in the summary box of his statement. MBNA also 
explained how they allocated the payments Mr M makes. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Our investigator said that the reason the purchases still incurred interest charges is because 
MBNA only doesnt charge interest on purchases made during the last statement period if 
the full balance is paid off, including any balance transfers. He said this is explained in the
terms and highlighted in the summary box of each credit card statement.
Our investigator said that when the balance isnt repaid in full as per the first term, then the 
business relies on the allocation of payment terms, also highlighted in the summary box of 
each statement. He said this explains that the payment is allocated to pay off balances
charged at the highest rate of interest first and that payments would be allocated to pay off
oldest balances first.
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he did not believe that MBNA had acted fairly or within the law. Mr M 
highlighted he has a credit card with a third party which he has had a promotional interest 
free balance transfer for 18 months. He says he has made purchases monthly and paid off 
the outstanding purchase balance in full each month, without paying interest on his 
purchases. Mr M said that based on MBNAs terms and conditions, he could no longer use 
his card at all until after the promotional interest free period expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr M from the outset that Im unable to tell MBNA how they should allocate 
payments or how they decide to charge interest, as these are business decisions for MBNA 
to make. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said about his third party credit card. And that hes used it the 
same way as he has used his MBNA credit card. But different products will have different 
terms and conditions. While one credit card may appear to have more advantageous terms 
and conditions than another credit card, Im not persuaded that this means another credit 
card is unlawful or unfair.
Ive looked at a number of items to see if MBNA had clearly set out when interest would 
apply, how the balance transfer offer would work and how payments would be allocated. And 
Im satisfied that MBNA have acted in line with their terms and conditions here and Ill 
explain why.
The first thing Ive looked at is the offer that MBNA had sent to Mr M. The letter which MBNA 
sent him dated January 2021, which Mr M provided to our service, explains how the offer 
would work. In bold text on page one it states please also consider the important 
information on the reverse of this letter (and then in normal text) before deciding to make a 
transfer.
Page two of this letter clearly states that to avoid paying interest on purchases you need to 
pay off your monthly statement balance in full and on time every month, including the value of any transfers, unless a 0% p.a.rate for purchases applies. So Im satisfied that MBNA 
were clear here that to avoid interest on purchases, Mr M would need to pay off the entire 
statement balance in full and on time each month.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about no longer being able to use his card at all until 
after the promotional interest free period expired. Mr M had previously been paying his full 
outstanding balance each month, so he didnt incur interest. So if Mr M had wanted to 
continue to use this card for purchases, then he would have needed to have paid the full 
statement balance each month to do so to avoid paying interest on his account. But Mr M 
was not obliged to make purchases on the MBNA credit card when he transferred a third 
party balance to them.
It was Mr Ms decision to continue to use his card to make purchases after he transferred a 
balance to MBNA. And as Im satisfied MBNA had set out on their offer letter that he would 
pay interest on any purchases unless the statement balance was paid in full and on time 
each month, then I cant say that MBNA have treated Mr M unreasonably by doing what they 
said they would do. 
Ive also looked at the terms of Mr Ms account. Section A4 details that we calculate interest 
daily based on the total amount you owe. We add together all the daily interest amounts in 
each statement period and add the total to your balance on your statement date. So again, 
Im satisfied that this shows that MBNA will calculate interest daily. There are two exceptions 
to this. One for purchases and one for default charges. As default charges do not apply here, 
then the purchases says we do not charge interest on purchases made during your latest 
statement period if you pay off your full balance (including any balance transfers and money 
transfers) by the payment due date and you also paid your previous months balance in full 
by the due date. 
Im satisfied that it is clear when interest would apply. Mr Ms statements also set out that 
MBNA charge interest daily, based on the total amount he owes. They set out that the 
sooner he makes his payments, even before the payment due date, the less interest he 
would pay. The summary box on his statements reiterates the interest charging terms. So 
Im satisfied that MBNA have clearly set out on at least three documents (his terms and 
conditions, his monthly statements and his offer letter) that interest would be payable unless 
the full outstanding balance was paid off in full and in time each month, so I cant say MBNA 
have done anything wrong here by applying their terms and conditions in the way they stated 
they would do. 
Ive then considered what Mr M has said about the £800 payment reducing his balance 
transfer outstanding balance. Ive looked at Mr Ms 15 March 2021 credit card statement. 
This shows that he had an outstanding purchase balance total of £904.25 and an 
outstanding balance transfer total of £1,269.11. During the time this statement was produced 
and his next statement of 15 April, Mr M made a direct debit payment of £47.89. As the 
payments would be credited to the previous statements outstanding balance which charges 
the most interest (in this case the purchase interest), then this would have reduced the 
outstanding purchase balance to £856.36. 
Mr M then makes a further payment on 8 April - prior to his next statement being produced, 
of £920. So as Mr Ms direct debit had reduced the outstanding balance on his purchases to 
£856.36, the £920 payment paid off the remaining outstanding purchase balance which 
showed on his statement. But as per the allocation of payments as set out in his terms and 
conditions and statements (shown below), the remaining (£920 - £856.36) = £63.64 of the 
payment was deducted off his balance transfer outstanding balance. This reduced the balance transfer outstanding balance from £1,269.11 to £1,205.47. So 
when Mr M made the £800 payment on 10 April, again, before his next statement was 
produced, that is why the £800 reduced his balance transfer outstanding total to (£1,205.47 - 
£800) = £405.47. And this is the figure shown on his 15 April statement for his balance 
transfer outstanding balance.
Mr Ms credit card statement clearly sets out (under the allocation of payments section) the 
following:
We will reduce the amount you owe in the following order
any overdue amounts from the previous statements; then
the remaining balance on your statement; then
any recent transactions not yet shown on your statement.
So as Mr M had a remaining balance on his statement after the purchases had been paid 
off, this is why this was allocated to the remaining balance on his statement  which reduced 
the balance transfer outstanding balance. It would only be if Mr M paid more than his full 
statement balance that MBNA would reduce the outstanding balance of purchases which 
were not yet shown on a statement. 
This is also shown on Mr Ms terms and conditions (section B7.4). So Im satisfied that 
MBNA acted correctly within their terms and conditions in how they allocated Mr Ms 
payments. And they made a goodwill gesture to refund the majority of the balance transfer 
fee and some of the interest, even though they were entitled to charge it, which Im 
persuaded was reasonable for them to do so. So it follows, I dont require MBNA to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman