DRN-2384279
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited asked him to pay an 
additional premium and then decided to settle his claim on his motor insurance policy 
proportionately. He wants it to honour its offer for him to pay an additional premium and 
withdraw the proportionate settlement. 
What happened
Mr A took out a motor insurance policy with Advantage through an online price comparison 
site. When his car was damaged, he tried to claim on his policy. 
Advantage initially offered Mr A a settlement for the total loss of his car. When it validated 
the claim, it noticed that Mr As date of birth was incorrect. It told Mr A that he could pay an 
additional premium of £1,000. But three days later, Advantage told Mr A that it would settle 
the claim proportionately and pay him 45% of the cars pre-accident value.
 When Mr A complained it said hed answered the question hed been asked about his date 
of birth incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to settle his claim proportionately. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld in part. 
She agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. She thought it was careless. She 
said Advantage was entitled to settle Mr As claim proportionately. But she thought 
Advantage should pay Mr A £100 compensation for the upset caused by it mistakenly telling 
him that he could pay an additional premium. 
Advantage doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said the mistake in his date of birth was due to a typo. I can understand that, but the 
result was that Advantage offered him a policy on incorrect terms. So I think its entitled to 
apply the relevant law, The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Advantage thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he stated his date of birth in his application via a comparison site. And Ive looked at the 
question he was asked when he completed the application and agree he failed to take 
reasonable care. This is because he was asked Your date of birth. And I think this was a 
clear question asked by Advantage through the comparison site Mr A used. 
I can see that its agreed that Mr A answered it incorrectly. And I think this means Mr A failed 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he stated his date of birth.
Advantage has provided evidence which shows that if Mr A had not made this 
misrepresentation it would have charged him a higher premium. This means I am satisfied 
Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
And I also think Mr As misrepresentation was a careless misrepresentation. Therefore, Im 
satisfied Advantage was entitled to deal with his claim proportionately. Advantage has 
shown that Mr A paid 45% of the premium he should have paid if hed not made the 
misrepresentation. So, in keeping with CIDRA, I think it needs to pay 45% of his claim, less 
any deductions.
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Advantage to rely on it to settle Mr As claim proportionately produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
When he first reported the claim, Advantage initially said that Mr A could pay an increased 
premium. It later said this was a mistake. And I agree because, as Ive explained above, 
CIDRA applies and this isnt a remedy in these circumstances.
 But I think Advantage had raised Mr As expectations that this error could be remedied by 
him paying an additional £1,000. Three days later, he found that his claim would be dealt 
with proportionately and he was left to repay about £5,000 in outstanding finance. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Advantage accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I think Advantage has now correctly applied CIDRA. So I think Mr As position is what it 
should be, and I dont require Advantage to honour its initial offer to apply an increased 
premium. But I think this error has had an impact on Mr A. This isnt financial, but I think 
Advantages error caused Mr A shock and upset. Ill explain why I think this:
Advantage sent Mr A its final settlement offer for the full value of the car seven days 
after the accident and its email strongly encouraged him to accept it. There was no 
indication that the claim hadnt been validated.
Four days later, the date of birth error came to light and Mr A was asked to pay an 
additional premium of about £1,000. He declined at that stage as he didnt 
understand how this had been arrived at or why it was being requested after 
Advantages settlement offer. 
And then three days later, he was told that his claim would be settled proportionately. 
His agreement to pay the additional premium instead was declined. So I think Advantage gave Mr A incorrect information. This raised his expectations that his 
claim would be settled in full and I think this caused him avoidable upset
.Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that Advantage should pay Mr A £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by it giving him incorrect information. I think thats fair 
and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr A £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its level of service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman