DRN-3168153
The complaint
The estate of Mr B complains that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) issued new 
policy documents to him after he had died and that the scheme doesnt pay out any death 
benefits as a lump sum. 
What happened
This complaint is brought on behalf of the estate of Mr B by his son. Mr B was a member of a 
defined benefit occupational pension scheme (the scheme). In January 2004, he took early 
retirement from the scheme and in March 2004 began receiving an annual pension of 
£3,252.84 from it. Mr B continued to receive his pension until he passed away in April 2020. 
Also in April 2020, the trustees of the scheme completed the buy-out of all member benefits 
which were secured with PIC, an insurance company, through a buy-out policy. The scheme 
was wound up and replaced with individual annuity contracts with PIC, the terms of which 
reflected the same benefits the members were entitled to under the scheme. PIC began 
writing to members enclosing new policy documents shortly after and it wasnt until June 
2020 that it wrote to Mr B.
Mrs B was upset to receive a letter addressed to her late husband especially after PIC had 
already been informed that he had passed away. She also told PIC that she would prefer it if 
the pension was paid to her as a lump sum to assist with funeral expenses. PIC said that 
unfortunately there were no death benefits payable under the scheme, only a spouses 
pension. And it said that that it because the value of the pension exceeded £30,000 it 
couldnt trivially commute her pension either. On behalf of Mr Bs estate, his son complained 
to PIC. He wanted to know why Mrs B had been denied the option to take the pension as a 
lump sum when the policy document included it as an option.
PIC looked into both complaints. It apologised for issuing the policy document after Mr B had 
passed away but explained that it had started the process of issuing policy documents to all 
members 8 weeks prior to them being sent out which was before it was informed that Mr B 
had passed away. It said it was undertaking a full review to work out the additional steps 
necessary to prevent such a situation from happening in the future. PIC said itd sent a letter 
of apology to Mrs B for any distress she may have been caused. 
PIC said that under Mr Bs occupational scheme a lump sum death benefit was only payable 
if the member passed away within the five-year guarantee period. It said that period ran for 
the five years after retirement so, as Mr B had retired in 2004, the five-year guarantee period 
for him ended in 2009. PIC said that after this point death benefits took the form of a 
spouses (or dependents) pension. PIC said that the death benefits applicable now for Mrs B 
were the same as they wouldve been under the occupational scheme which didnt include 
paying a lump sum (due to the value of the pension being above the trivial commutation limit 
and the fact the scheme rules didnt facilitate it).
PIC also noted that Mr Bs son had questioned whether Mr Bs pension had automatically 
transferred over to PIC or if hed have had to have agreed to it. PIC said that as Mr B was 
receiving benefits at the time the trustees made the decision to secure the schemes benefits 
with a buy-out policy, he wouldnt have been asked to sign any documentation. It said there 
were no changes to the benefits or rules and the decision to close the scheme and replace it 
with a buy-out policy had rested with the trustees. 
Mr Bs son replied to PIC and said his father hadnt retired until 2014, not in 2004 as stated 
by PIC. Mr Bs son said his father did draw a small pension from 2004 but continued 
working. So, he said he wanted to know if this would be classed as retirement. Mr Bs son 
also referred to a booklet his father had been sent in 2017 providing him with an alternative 
pension option but recommending that he seek financial advice before proceeding with the 
transfer. Mr Bs son said there was no evidence to show his father had taken advice (or 
chosen alternative option) but the pension illustration in the document was very similar to the 
amount of his recent pension so he thought this showed an unauthorised transfer had taken 
place. Mr Bs son asked PIC to confirm that the transfer that had taken place was an 
authorised one.
PIC considered what Mr Bs son had said. It confirmed that Mr B had retired in 2004 and that 
the point at which he started to receive payments from the scheme would be classed as 
retirement. In respect of the 2017 document it said this was issued before it became involved 
with the scheme so it held no details about it. It gave Mr Bs son the contact details of the 
former schemes administrator. 
Unhappy with the outcome of the estates complaint to PIC, Mr Bs son made a complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. He didnt think that PIC had treated Mr Bs estate unfairly by not paying it a lump 
sum death benefit. And he thought PICs apology for sending a letter addressed to Mr B after 
hed passed away was a fair and reasonable response to that part of the estates complaint. 
Mr Bs son replied to say he disagreed with our investigators findings. He repeated that PIC 
had been notified before it sent the letter in June 2020 that his father had passed away. He 
said he wanted to know if all scheme members received documents in June 2020 or just his 
father. Mr Bs son said hed asked, on numerous occasions to be provided with a copy of the 
policy document for the original scheme (pre buy-out) so he could satisfy himself thered 
been no changes in the benefits provided. Finally he said he remained unconvinced that his 
father had consented to be transferred into the scheme he was a member of before the buy-
out took place (the scheme Mr B had originally drawn his pension benefits from having been  
transferred to another defined benefit provider in 2014). He wanted to know how that transfer 
had come about and when. He thought this was important because he wanted to know if the 
benefits of his original defined benefits scheme were the same as the scheme he was 
transferred into (around 2014). 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again. He said if the estate remained unhappy 
about the transfer in 2014 then this would need to be raised separately with the business 
responsible for undertaking it. Our investigator said this complaint was against PIC which 
had not been involved in the 2014 transfer and was only responsible for paying the benefits 
insured with it by the trustee. And finally he explained that PIC hadnt been able to get hold 
of the scheme booklets but had sent us documents confirming the benefits it was obliged to 
pay following the buy-out. Whilst this information was confidential and couldnt be shared 
with the estate, our investigator explained what it showed which was that the benefits 
insured with PIC by the trustees were the same as those that existed under the scheme. 
Unhappy with our investigators response, Mr Bs son, on behalf of Mr Bs estate, asked for 
the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause, Im unable to fairly and reasonably 
uphold this complaint; Ill explain why. 
This complaint is about PIC and I can only look here at what PIC did and whether it treated 
the estate of Mr B fairly and reasonably. I cant consider here any complaint the estate may 
have about the 2014 transfer between the original defined benefit scheme Mr B was a 
member of and the one eventually bought out by PIC in 2020. Nor can I look at any 
complaint about information Mr B received in 2017 about an alternative pension option (for 
which he was advised to seek independent financial advice). Thats because PIC was in no 
way involved in either the 2014 transfer or in providing information in 2017 about any 
alternative pension option. As has been pointed out to Mr Bs estate, any complaint about 
either matter will need to be raised with the businesses involved. Here Ill be looking at the 
estates complaint about PIC sending out documents to Mr B after he had passed away, 
about it declining to pay a lump sum death benefit and about whether the transfer to PIC was 
authorised by the late Mr B. 
It is not in dispute that PIC sent out policy documents addressed to Mr B after it had been 
informed that he had passed away. Understandably it was upsetting for Mrs B to receive 
documents addressed to her late husband particularly as she had already notified it about 
his death. I have to look here at how PIC addressed Mr Bs estates complaint about this 
issue and to decide if it responded to it fairly and reasonably. 
I can see that PIC apologised to Mrs B and her son for issuing documentation addressed to 
the late Mr B. I can also see how it explained how it had come to do so and that it intended 
to review its processes to prevent such a situation from ever arising again. PIC also sent a 
letter of apology to Mrs B. I think that PIC responded fairly and reasonably to this part of the 
complaint. It has apologised for its error and I dont think it needs to do any more to put this 
right. 
I understand that Mrs B would have preferred to have her late husbands pension paid to her 
in one lump sum as she had been reassured by him that she would receive this benefit and 
that it would cover his funeral expenses. I can see that when she contacted PIC after Mr B 
had passed away that she asked for his pension to be settled in this way and that PIC 
informed her that it wouldnt be possible to do so. It explained to Mrs B that the pension 
couldnt be trivially commuted because its value exceeded the limit set by HMRC. PIC has to 
abide by the rules set by HMRC so I dont think, in the circumstances, that it unreasonably 
declined to pay the fund to Mrs B as a lump sum. 
I can also see that Mrs B thought that the pension terms permitted the payment of the 
pension as a lump sum. PIC explained to her though that the terms of the scheme provided 
for a lump sum to be paid after death only if the scheme member (Mr B) passed away within 
the five-year guarantee period. I can see that this period runs from the time pension benefits 
are first taken until the expiration of 5 years. As Mr B took his pension in 2004, his five-year 
guarantee period ended in 2009. After this point the scheme provided death benefits in the 
form of a spouses (or dependents) pension. PIC has confirmed to Mrs B that she is entitled 
to a spouses pension under the scheme. 
From reviewing the available documentation, I think that PIC has fairly applied the scheme 
rules to Mrs Bs situation. Unfortunately for her, those rules dont facilitate the payment of the 
pension as a one-off lump sum outside of the five-year guarantee period. It follows that I 
dont think that PIC has unfairly declined to pay Mrs B a lump sum. Ive also checked the terms and can see that there is no other lump sum death benefit that 
Mrs B would be entitled to. And I can see too that the pension death benefits payable by PIC 
are the same as those under Mr Bs former scheme. So I cant see that Mrs B has been 
disadvantaged at all by the buy-out or treated unfairly by PIC. 
Mr Bs son has questioned whether the transfer of his late fathers scheme to PIC required 
his late fathers consent. He has said that he didnt think his father had given any consent. I 
can see that the decision for a full scheme buy-out of the scheme, and to insure the benefits 
with PIC, was taken by the pension trustees and didnt require the consent of the scheme 
members. Thats because it wasnt an individual transfer of Mr Bs benefits. Rather all the 
members of the scheme received an annuity contract with PIC and the scheme rules 
remained the same following the trustees decision to close it. 
PIC has confirmed it is secure in being able to provide payments to all members of the 
scheme with no changes to the original scheme rules. It can therefore only pay benefits to its 
members in line with those rules. 
Having taken all the circumstances of this complaint into account, for the reasons Ive given 
here, Im afraid it is one that Im unable to fairly and reasonably uphold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman