DRN-1705496
 
The complaint
Company S is complaining that Paymentsense Limited wont refund a chargeback to its 
business account. In this complaint, Company S is represented by Mr H.
What happened
A new customer of Company S phoned them, wanting to purchase an item from their 
website. Mr H took the telephone call. When the customer provided his payment details the 
Paymentsense system told Mr H that the security code provided matched the rest of the card 
details, but the address provided didnt match. Mr H was concerned about this so he didnt 
accept the payment and instead phoned Paymentsense to discuss it.
After his call with Paymentsense, Mr H was satisfied that it would be ok to make the 
transaction so he spoke to his customer again. This time the customer provided details for a 
different card, but again the address details didnt match. Mr H accepted the payment but he 
was still concerned so he called Paymentsense again before sending the item out to the 
customer. After this second call with Paymentsense, Mr H was satisfied and sent the item to 
the customer.
A few weeks later, Company S received a letter telling them that the transaction had been 
disputed and the money theyd received would be taken from their account to refund the 
cardholder. The reason given was that it was a fraudulent transaction.
Mr H was unhappy as he felt hed been advised that the transaction was safe. He 
complained to Paymentsense. In their final response letter, Paymentsense said their 
representatives had provided Mr H with the correct information. They said the 
representatives didnt advise whether or not Company S would receive a chargeback. And 
they said that its a merchants responsibility to take all reasonable steps when putting 
through a cardholder-not-present (CNP) transaction. They referred Mr H to clause 2.3 of the 
FDMS Operating Guide which theyd sent Company S when they opened the account.
Unhappy with Paymentsenses response, Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigators view was that Paymentsenses representatives had reassured Mr H about the 
transaction and that Mr H wouldnt have proceeded with the transaction had they acted 
differently. Our investigator felt that Paymentsenses service fell short. She asked them to 
compensate Company S for the cost of the goods sent out and also £100 for the 
inconvenience caused by not being given clear information.
Paymentsense didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, they said:
they cant advise whether a transaction is safe or fraudulent;
they wouldnt advise a merchant to process or not process a CNP transaction 
because the merchant should know they do it at their own risk;
clause 2.3 of the FDMS Operating Guide has information on how to prevent and 
detect fraudulent CNP transactions; andMr H hadnt spoken to the customer on the phone and said they dont advise 
customers to process transactions based on details received by email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators view and Ive decided to uphold Company Ss complaint. Ill 
explain why, referring to Paymentsenses points set out above.
In their response to our investigators view, Paymentsense said they cant advise whether a 
transaction is safe or fraudulent and they wouldnt advise a merchant to process or not 
process a CNP transaction. It might be true that Paymentsense dont intend to advise these 
things. But Ive listened to the two phone calls Mr H made to Paymentsense on the day of 
the transaction and Im satisfied the representatives did lead Mr H to believe that the 
transaction would be safe. Ive explained why below.
In the first call, its clear to me that Mr H knows the transaction will go through if he accepts 
it: Well no, I know it will go through if I say yes but I need to know where I stand. And its 
clear hes concerned about it: I just need to know if its, umm, safe for me basically. The 
representative doesnt appear to quite understand what Mr H is asking - he tells Mr H that 
the transaction will definitely go through and explains what the fees are. Its clear Mr H isnt 
particularly concerned about fees but just wants to know if the transaction is safe. He 
reiterates his question: Right, ok, but Im 100% safe, and the representative replies Yep, 
100%, yeah 
When Mr H makes the second call to Paymentsense, hes just accepted the payment but 
hasnt yet sent the item to the customer. From listening to the call its clear to me that Mr H 
was looking for further reassurance that the transaction was safe before he posted the item. 
Mr H says to the second representative: he [the first representative] said we werent in any 
danger of it being a dodgy transaction or anything like that, or losing the funds or anything 
like that, so, is that still the case? The representatives reply is That will still be the case 
yes.
I cant see that either of the Paymentsense representatives warned Mr H about the risk of 
accepting the transaction  instead both were reassuring and positive.   
Paymentsense said that Mr H had a copy of the FDMS Operating Guide and that clause 2.3 
of this guide sets out information about how to prevent and detect fraudulent CNP 
transactions. I can see that section 2.3 includes a statement Fraudulent CNP Transactions 
are your liability as they are likely to be charged back to you. So I can see why 
Paymentsense say that Company S is liable for the transaction. 
But I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr H to remember this one line in a 60-page 
document when he has been specifically reassured by two separate Paymentsense 
representatives on the phone that the transaction is safe. So Im not satisfied that the FDMS 
Operating Guide absolves Paymentsense of taking responsibility for the contradictory 
information provided by their representatives on the phone.
The final point that Paymentsense makes is that Mr H shouldnt have accepted a transaction 
based on details received by email. Mr Hs testimony is that the transaction was over the 
telephone. And this is consistent with the sense of the two telephone calls on the same day. 
In the second call, Mr H said The customer Ive since spoken to and theyve opted to use a 
different card I can see Paymentsense thought Mr H hadnt spoken to the customer 
because of an exchange during a call the next day. In this call Mr H was asked whether hed spoken to the customer and replied that he hadnt - but this was in the context of an email 
about the transaction being fraudulent. I understood Mr H to be saying that he hadnt spoken 
to the customer since hed received that email. So, on balance, Im satisfied Mr H was given 
the card details over the phone.
In conclusion, I dont think Paymentsense has acted fairly and reasonably. What they told Mr 
H over the phone caused him to think that the transaction was safe and would not be 
reversed. If Paymentsense expected Mr H to rely on the FDMS Operating Guide when 
deciding whether to proceed, its representatives could have explained this. Because they did 
not, and instead led Mr H to believe he could proceed without risk, Paymentsense needs to 
put things right.
Putting things right
Its clear to me that Mr H wouldnt have accepted this customers payment if he hadnt been 
told on the first call that the transaction was safe. And its clear to me that he would have 
sought to avoid sending the item to his customer if he hadnt been reassured on the second 
call. 
The amount Company S lost as a result of what Paymentsense told Mr H was the amount 
that the item originally cost Company S. Mr H has told us that this was £536.99. So Im 
instructing Paymentsense to compensate Company S for this. In addition Company S has 
been inconvenienced by Paymentsenses information  as well as Mr H making the second 
phone call on the same day theyve had to deal with the chargeback and then raise the 
complaint to try to get their money back. I agree with our investigator that Paymentsense 
should pay £100 additional compensation to Company S to recognise the inconvenience 
theyve experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. To settle it, Paymentsense 
Limited need to:
1. pay £536.99 to Company S
2. pay 8% annual simple interest on this amount for the period from the date the 
chargeback was made to the settlement date. If Paymentsense deduct tax from the 
interest element of this award, they should provide Company S with an appropriate 
tax certificate
3. pay £100 to Company S in view of the inconvenience caused by the unclear 
information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman