DRN-4266944
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc have unreasonably declined to refund 
transactions that she sent to an alleged fraudster. Shed like the money refunded.
What happened
In October 2018 Miss B got talking to someone she met online. She was persuaded to send 
them money, which she did with two faster payments. These were for £300 and £160.
Miss B later felt shed fallen victim to a scam. She contacted Barclays to see if she could get 
her money back, saying she was a vulnerable individual whod been taken advantage of. 
Barclays however declined to refund her.
Unhappy with this Miss B referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened but didnt think Barclays needed to do anything further  they 
said it wasnt disputed that Miss B made the transactions herself. The investigator didnt 
think the transactions were significantly out of character enough that Barclays should have 
taken steps to intervene or prevent them. So, they didnt think Barclays should be liable for 
refunding them.
Miss B disagreed, saying she felt it was unfair. She sent some further evidence of the 
communication she had with the alleged fraudster. But this didnt change the investigators 
mind. As no agreement could reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of the difficulties Miss B has faced, and Ive no doubt this experience 
has been very upsetting for her. But having reviewed the evidence I cant see that Barclays 
should be responsible for refunding her. I acknowledge shell likely find this disappointing, 
but Ill explain why.
Under the relevant regulations around payments  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
 the bank has a responsibility to carry out any legitimate payment instructions requested by 
their consumer as quickly as possible. In this case its not disputed that Miss B made the 
payments herself. So, Barclays havent done anything wrong by making them, and theyre 
under no obligation under the regulations to refund her.
There may be some circumstances where Id expect a bank to prevent a payment or hold it 
up to ask further questions about it. But generally, this would be where the payment, or 
sequence of payments, was so significantly out of character for the account that it could be 
seen to be fraud or a scam. 
Having reviewed Miss Bs statements for several months before these payments, I dont see 
this to be the case. Neither the amount nor type of either transaction were unusual for her 
account. I cant see that Barclays should reasonably have intervened to prevent these 
payments.
From what Ive seen Miss B didnt discuss these payments with Barclays at the time, so 
missed the chance of recovering any funds from the recipient.
Overall, I dont see that Barclays are liable for refunding these transactions to Miss B. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman