DRN-1904381
The complaint
Ms D complains that AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company didnt offer her enough 
when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy after her car was written-off.  
What happened
AXA offered Ms D £8,120 for the car. She thought that was well below its market value, as 
shed seen local adverts for similar cars priced from £10,500 to £11,500. When she sought a 
view from an engineer, he valued the car at £9,765, based on the valuation given in one of 
the national trade guides. AXA found similar cars in other parts of the UK advertised for less 
than those in Ms Ds local area. It based its offer on the valuations given in three national 
trade guides. Ms D didnt think it was fair to take non-local adverts into consideration. She 
said AXA initially wouldnt make an interim payment to her - although it did so in the end. 
AXA said Ms Ds car was advertised for sale in 2018 at £11,500 when its mileage was 
25,000. In November 2019, it was 36,490. And it said its offer was made in line with our 
guidance about establishing a cars pre-incident value.  
One of our investigators considered Ms Ds complaint. She thought AXAs offer was fair, 
having looked at the valuations set out in the trade guides. She said advertised prices didnt 
usually reflect the selling prices of cars. She said one of the three valuations AXA had used 
was no longer available and the fourth guide (which AXA didnt consider) gave a valuation 
that was significantly higher than the other guides. She noted that Ms Ds engineer had 
based his valuation only on that guide. She said wed normally discount a trade guide 
valuation that was out of line with the others. 
Ms D accepted that asking prices could be negotiated downwards, but not by as much as 
the investigator was suggesting. She said the fourth guide was possibly more reflective of 
the market value of cars in her part of the UK than the other guides. She didnt think local 
market selling prices should be disregarded. The investigator pointed out that all four guides 
applied to prices researched all over the UK and represented the entire UK market. Ms D 
said the fourth guide should be part of the overall valuation.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ds policy says AXA will pay the market value for her car, which is the price that would 
have been paid for it immediately before the accident took place. We think the best way to 
establish what the market value of a car is likely to have been is for insurers to use the 
valuations set out in the four national trade guides. The valuations in them are based on 
extensive research across the UK. We dont find adverts helpful in most cases. Not only do 
they reflect asking prices that arent likely to be achieved, but prices often vary enormously 
between what appear to be similar vehicles.
Ms Ds engineer didnt take account of three of the trade guide valuations  although all of 
them apply equally across the UK. Had he done so, he would have found that the average of 
valuation for Ms Ds car - using all four guides - was £8,451. 
We normally exclude a trade guide valuation if its out of line with those in the other guides. 
The fourth guides valuation was more than £1,600 more than the next highest valuation, 
whereas the difference between the other three guides was only £600. In these 
circumstances, I think its fair to exclude the fourth guides valuation. The average of the 
other three guides (which AXA considered) was £7,982. As AXA paid Ms D £8,120 for her 
car, I think its offer was fair and reasonable. 
As I dont think Ms D has shown that AXA acted unreasonably, I cant uphold her complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman