DRN-3167714
The complaint
Mr B was advised in 1993 to make contributions into a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) plan now with Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Limited 
(Sun Life). He says he should have been advised to pay into the in house Additional 
Voluntary Contributions (AVCs) scheme provided by his employer.
What happened
At the time of advice, Mr B was 27 years old, single, employed with an income of £15,764 
pa. He was a member of his employers pension scheme. The FSAVC was set up in 
September 1993 with a monthly contribution of £25 increasing 5% annually. Mr B stopped 
his contributions in January 1996. The plan is currently paid up.
Mr B raised a complaint with Sun Life in early 2021. 
Sun Life didnt uphold it. Amongst other things Sun Life said that the documentation 
completed at the time of the sale showed that the adviser had made Mr B aware of his 
employers in house AVCs but Mr B had selected the FSAVC as it provided flexibility, 
including allowing benefits to be taken earlier than his employers scheme retirement age, 
and was independent of his employers pension scheme. Sun Life said the generic 
differences had been discussed with Mr B and wouldve included that charges would 
normally be lower for the employers in house AVCs; that Mr B would be responsible for 
paying all the charges in the FSAVC; and that his employers scheme might offer added 
years whereas the FSAVC would only provide money purchase benefits. Sun Life said the 
FSAVC was suitable for Mr B.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service in April 2021. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
said the fact find showed Mr B had been made aware of the in house AVC option and it had 
been considered before the recommendation to contribute to a FSAVC was made. Mr B 
wanted to retire earlier than the normal retirement age under his employers pension scheme 
and he didnt plan to stay with that employer. She added that the projected rate of returns 
(13% and 8%) used in illustrations at the time werent guaranteed. 
Mr B said hed like an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said, if the adviser was 
required to mention the generic benefits of in house AVCs, that hadnt happened. The 
adviser, to cover himself, had asked Mr B to sign something he hadnt read. Mr B had 
trusted the adviser and didnt read the document and had just signed it. He said hed be 
interested to see the document hed signed. He added that, if he was to move employers it 
would be within the same industry and thered have been a similar pension scheme and in 
house AVCs, allowing him to retire at age 55.
We shared with Mr B the fact find that Sun Life had produced. Mr B said some of what it 
recorded was wrong. In particular, he hadnt been an existing client. The adviser was a 
friend of a close friend of Mr Bs. Mr B had been introduced to the adviser by chance socially 
and the adviser had initiated a conversation about helping Mr B with his finances. Mr B said 
hed never said he wanted the maximum pension. Rather the adviser had told him thats 
what he needed. Mr B said the focus was on the flexibility of the FSAVC without any 
reference to the costs of the FSAVC compared to those of Mr Bs employers scheme in 
house AVCs. He thought the motivation was to secure the contract rather than his financial 
interests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is complaining about something that happened in 1993. Im deciding the complaint on 
the basis of what the advisers regulatory requirements were then. At the time of the advice, 
the adviser was tied to Sun Lifes predecessors products and so could only give advice 
about them. But the adviser was bound by the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust 
Regulatory Organisation) code of conduct. It required a company representative to exercise 
due skill, care and diligence and to deal fairly with investors. The adviser also had common 
law duties too but those were encompassed in the LAUTRO code. 
Wed expect tied advisers to have known that in house options would be available to the 
consumer. In addition to highlighting the benefits of the FSAVC, the adviser should mention 
the generic benefits available with in house options. Even if a tied adviser only knew the 
consumers occupation these generic benefits would include:
In house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC; 
Added years might have been available under a defined benefit occupational 
scheme, particularly in the public sector - these provided a guaranteed benefit linked 
to salary and an additional component of tax-free cash, neither of which were 
available under an FSAVC; 
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house option. 
The time thats elapsed will usually make investigating the complaint more difficult. Not all of 
the documentation may have survived and memories may have faded. In reaching my 
decision I take into account all the evidence, including what the parties say about what 
happened, any contemporaneous documentation and the wider circumstances of the 
complaint. 
The main contemporaneous evidence is the confidential personal financial analysis (or fact 
find) dated 26 July 1993. Mr B is concerned that he just signed the document (theres a 
declaration section which has his signature) without reading it. I also note what he says 
about some of the information being incorrect and that the adviser didnt refer to the costs of 
the FSAVC compared to those of in house AVCs. 
Theres a notes section in the fact find which appears to record what was discussed. It 
seems the adviser knew that Mr B was a member of his employers non contributory final 
salary pension scheme. And, if he remained with his then employer and retired at age 55, 
hed have 32 years pensionable service out of a maximum of 40 years. It records that Mr B 
thought hed stay with his current employer in the near future, but long term he wouldnt. 
That said I understand that Mr B did in fact remain with the same employer up until he retired 
in 2020. 
The notes record that the adviser said Mr B had two option to help provide a maximum 
pension at 55  FSAVCs or in house AVCs. The notes do refer to the greater flexibility 
offered by FSAVCs. But the lower administration fees of in house AVCs are recorded as 
having been mentioned too. Mr B may not now recall any discussion about comparable costs but Im inclined to accept 
that the fact find does reflect what was discussed at the time. And that Mr B was made 
aware that his employers in house AVCs would be cheaper in terms of charges. 
Sun Life has suggested that a more detailed comparison of the generic differences would 
have been discussed, including that Mr Bs employers pension scheme might offer added 
years. I dont think thats reflected in the fact find. But Mr B hasnt suggested that added 
years wouldve been an option and from the details Ive seen about his employers scheme I 
dont think added years (which as Ive said tended to be a feature of public sector schemes) 
were offered. 
Ive also seen, from the questionnaire that Mr B completed for Sun Life in connection with his 
complaint, that Mr B says he was told that he could use the FSAVC to pay off his mortgage. 
As Ive said above, at the time, the FSAVC didnt provide a lump sum. But the fact find 
doesnt indicate that the recommendation had anything to do with Mr Bs mortgage and so 
Im not going to say the advice was unsuitable from that perspective.  
         
From what Ive seen, Sun Life knew about Mr Bs membership of his employers pension 
scheme and that it offered in house AVCs. Mr B was also informed that the charges would 
be lower than for a FSAVC plan. I dont think it would be fair to say that Sun Life should 
compensate Mr B given that, from what Ive seen, he chose to take out the FSAVC when he 
knew hed pay more than if he joined his employers AVC scheme.  
Against that background, Im unable to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman