DRN-2880083
The complaint
Mr S says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) is responsible for the 
delayed transfers of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and his Fund and Share 
Account (FSA) to AJ Bell in 2020. He says the transfers were prompted by HLs arbitrary 
and unilateral closure of both accounts and that its delays caused him trouble and 
inconvenience in addition to a financial loss arising from being unable to trade in the 
accounts because they were frozen during the delayed transfers (and arising from specific 
lost trading/investment opportunities in this respect).
HL says it caused no delay to the transfer of the SIPP, but it is responsible for a 10 days 
delay in the transfer of the FSA, for which it apologised to Mr S and credited his account with 
£150 (as compensation for the trouble and inconvenience caused). It also says the accounts 
were transferred in specie (other than specific liquidations Mr S instructed during the 
process) so there was no investment/financial loss caused by the delay and that whilst he 
could not trade online he retained access to do so over the telephone (which is how he 
instructed the liquidations).
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She broadly agreed with HLs position in the matter and she did not consider that it 
should have to do any more than it had done. She found that it completed the SIPP transfer, 
within its six weeks timescale (starting from when it received the transfer acceptance 
documentation); that it relied on third parties to complete the re-registration of the SIPPs 
assets and that was not uncommon; that it has acknowledged and compensated for its delay 
in the FSA transfer; and that Mr S could have traded in the accounts over the telephone (and 
was told so in a letter he was sent at the time) so HL is not responsible for any perceived 
financial loss he claims.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome. He sought and obtained a copy of the letter that the 
investigator referred to, in terms of notice that he could trade over the telephone. He argued 
that it is unreliable because it is a generic template letter, because it says telephone dealing 
may have been possible (not that it was possible for him) and because it was implicit within 
HLs closure of his accounts that he could not transact in them (other than liquidating 
holdings or transferring them elsewhere). He also noted that HL and AJ Bell presented 
conflicting sequences of events in the transfer process, so he does not know which version 
should be believed. Mr S also suggested pursuit of a separate complaint against AJ Bell.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S complaint submissions to this service include reference to the way his HL accounts 
were closed. It appears that he was and remains unhappy about this. However, it does not 
appear that his complaint is about this aspect  he has not said it is  and evidence is that 
the closure of the accounts and the process applied for that were done in line with HLs 
contractual entitlement to close the account in the way it did and in line with the process it 
was required to follow. As such, I do not address this point any further.
The complaint is about HLs responsibilities in the transfer process, not AJ Bells, and my 
task is to determine it based on the balance of available evidence. I consider there is enough 
evidence to do this. I note Mr S reference to a conflicting account (of the sequence of 
events) from AJ Bell but, overall, on balance and in the absence of reasons to conclude 
otherwise, I am persuaded that HLs evidence of its role in the transfer process is reliable. 
HLs evidence provides as follows:
With regards to the SIPP transfer, it received AJ Bells completed discharge forms on 
5 March; by 9 March this had been processed and a valuation of the SIPP was 
released to AJ Bell; on the same date it requested AJ Bells transfer bank details and 
Mr S personal discharge form; it received the latter on 31 March and the former on 6 
April; processing of his discharge form had to be suspended pending completion of a 
class conversion he requested on 6/7 April for a fund in the SIPP; that was 
completed on 16 April; on 20 April his discharge form was processed and an updated 
SIPP valuation was released to AJ Bell; AJ Bells acceptance of the transfer was 
received on 23 April and was processed by 11 May; most of the SIPPs funds were 
transferred on 26 May and the last was transferred by 8 July.
With regards to the FSA, it received two information requests from AJ Bell  on 18 
March and 30 April  before processing the request on 1 May and responding with a 
valuation release to AJ Bell on 13 May; it received a third request on 1 June and by 
23 June it had updated, checked and released the account valuation to AJ Bell; AJ 
Bell did not respond to the valuation release; a fund conversion happened on 24 
June and in July a fourth information request was received and responded to with 
another account valuation; on 28 July AJ Bells acceptance was received; this was 
processed by 5 August and by 10 August two funds in the account were transferred; 
the transfer of cash on 16 September completed the process.
On balance, and based on the above, HLs handling of the SIPP transfer was not 
unreasonable. However, it appears to have caused a delay (within the period starting 18 
March and ending 1 May) at the outset of the FSA transfer by not processing AJ Bells initial 
information request(s) in time. 
In the SIPP transfer process HL does not appear to have been unduly inactive and it does 
not appear to have reacted to developments unreasonably late. Its role in the process was 
dependent on other parties (including AJ Bell, the respective funds/fund managers and even 
Mr S), but where its action was required it conducted itself reasonably. I do not consider it 
fair to hold it responsible for time consumed, or delays caused, by any third party in the 
overall process and I have not seen evidence that it was unduly late to chase any such party 
or that it was required to do so.
The SIPP had to be transferred because of the account closure and HL conducted its role in 
the transfer process reasonably, so I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. It follows 
from this that I also do not find that HL caused Mr S any trouble, inconvenience and/or 
financial loss in this aspect.
After the delay initially caused by HL in the FSA transfer, additional delays appear to have 
been caused by the third and, perhaps, the fourth information requests from AJ Bell  and 
the absence of its acceptance upon the valuation that was released to it after the third request. I do not have enough information about AJ Bells conduct in this so I do not have a 
basis to conclude that it did any wrong in this respect  and I draw no such conclusion. 
However, if Mr S considers there was an undue delay between 13 May (when the first 
valuation was released) and 28 July (when AJ Bell eventually confirmed its acceptance), 
there is enough evidence to say the delay does not appear to have been HLs responsibility. 
I have considered whether (or not) it should have chased AJ Bell for the acceptance after 13 
May or after 23 June (when the second valuation was released) but, on balance, I consider 
that the third information request it received on 1 June diluted or negated need for a chaser 
after the first date and the same (that is, receipt of the fourth request) appears to have 
happened shortly after the second date.
Overall and on balance, I am persuaded that HLs fault in the delayed FSA transfer is limited 
to the period at the outset of the process that it has conceded responsibility for. In this 
context, I am satisfied that the £150 it paid Mr S for trouble and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable, and that HL should not have to pay any more. Given that it contributed to the 
delay in this transfer, there is potential for it to have a partial responsibility for any financial 
loss resulting directly from the delay. The FSA was, in the main, transferred in specie, so for 
the funds transferred as they were there was no investment loss arising from being taken out 
of the market  because they were not taken out of the market. The liquidations instructed by 
Mr S were his choice, so no claim can reasonably be made for loss in this respect. 
I understand the somewhat fine point that Mr S makes about lost investment opportunity. It 
does not seem to be in dispute that he could liquidate funds over the telephone during the 
transfer  in his submissions to us he appears to have referred to the same liquidations (that 
he made in this manner) that HL also highlighted to us. His argument, based on a specific 
example he has given, is that he lost a reinvestment opportunity because he could not 
conduct such reinvestment during the transfer process. Two main obstacles face this 
argument. I have not seen evidence of a pre-transfer plan on his part to make the 
liquidation(s) and reinvestment(s) that he claims, so I do not have enough to conclude that 
such a plan existed prior to the transfer  if this is part of his claim. Irrespective of when the 
plan arose, I also do not have evidence that he ever approached HL with an 
attempt/instruction to reinvest during the transfer process (and/or with notice to HL that he 
had such a plan which he wished to fulfil at the time). 
On balance, I do not consider that the facts support Mr S suggestion that a bar against 
reinvestment was implicit. Mr S was told he could not trade in the accounts because of the 
closures, but he knew he could instruct liquidations over the telephone because he 
successfully did that after the closures and during the transfer process. There is also 
evidence that HL conducted a fund class conversion for him during the transfer. If he sought 
to do more  to reinvest  it is reasonable to expect that he would have at least submitted 
such an instruction or a related query to HL. In the absence of either of these and, if 
relevant, in the absence of a pre-transfer plan to reinvest, his claim for financial loss from a 
lost investment opportunity caused (or partly caused) by HL lacks requisite 
substance/evidence. Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded to 
uphold the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Roy KukuOmbudsman