DRN-1743999
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with AXA Insurance Designated Activity Companys (AXA) decision to 
decline a claim she made in relation to her septic tank. Mrs D is represented by Mr L. 
What happened
In December 2018, Mrs D identified a problem with her septic tank. She contacted AXA to 
make a claim and arranged for a specialist to come out and inspect the tank and drainage 
field. The specialist carried out their initial inspection in January 2019. They made a number 
of recommendations for further investigative works and, in respect of an effective and lasting 
repair, for a sewage treatment plant to be installed.
AXA indicated there wasnt any evidence to suggest Mrs Ds claim should be covered. It 
initially said she didnt have accidental damage cover, but as there had been some 
confusion around this in the information it provided to her, it said it would treat her policy as if 
it included accidental damage cover.
AXA issued its final response in June 2019. It said while the septic tank was covered by the 
buildings definition of the policy, it didnt consider the buildings cover extended to the 
accompanying pipes and drainage field, which were in located in a third parties property. It 
was in the drainage field the issue that caused the septic tank to fail appeared to have 
occurred. AXA concluded there was no evidence of accidental damage, rather it said the 
damage had appeared to have occurred over time. It highlighted the relevant part of the 
policy terms which excluded claims on this basis. However, it said it would offer up to £5,000 
towards identifying any damage with the septic tank  under the trace and access section of 
the policy. 
Mr L said Mrs Ds policy provided for accidental damage to both the building and to 
underground pipes which extend from the septic tank. Mr L also said as the drainage system 
had unexpectedly ceased to function, and no exclusions had been demonstrated, then     
Mrs Ds claim ought to succeed. In his response to AXA, Mr L highlighted published 
guidance from this service that indicated accidental damage could mean something that is 
both unforeseen and intentional. And he felt that these criteria applied to the damage to the 
drainage field. 
Mr L also argued that the septic tank and drainage field were a system, and one couldnt 
operate without the other. Therefore, as accidental damage hadnt been defined by the 
policy, and the damage had occurred underground, he thought the claim should be covered.   
In July 2019 the specialist carried out further trace and access investigations, as AXA had 
said it would contribute to these costs. It wasnt able to identify any wants or defects to the 
septic tank itself. It concluded the system had been functioning as designed but, in their 
opinion, heavy agricultural equipment has compromised the functionality of the designed 
drainage field and it is now not functioning as designed. It based this conclusion based on 
the equipment being used and stored on the land above the drainage field. 
AXA continued to decline the claim on the basis there was no cover for the drainage field, 
and on the finding the damage had occurred gradually. Mrs Ds representative referred the 
case to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He considered the 
complaint but felt AXA had acted fairly in declining Mrs Ds claim on the basis the damage 
had occurred over time. As Mrs D and her representative didnt agree, this matter has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are certain factors of this claim that are not in dispute. Its agreed by both sides the 
septic tank does not appear to be damaged, and the cause of the failure to the system 
appears to be based in the drainage field. What is in dispute is whether or not the drainage 
field is covered by the buildings section of Mrs Ds policy. In addition to this, Mr L has argued 
that the intention of the policy is to cover the septic tank system, and it should be considered 
under the accidental damage section of the policy. Whereas AXA says the evidence 
provided indicated the drainage field has been gradually damaged over time, and the policy 
excludes damage on this basis. 
Ive started by considering how the policy defines Buildings. It says:
the private home show in the schedule and the following if they form part of the 
property and septic tanks, all within the boundaries of the land belonging to the 
private home
Ive gone on to consider the policy terms further, and they say:
What is covered 14 Damage to underground services
We will cover accidental damage to a cables and underground pipes which extend 
from the buildings to the public mains; and b septic tanks and drain inspection 
covers
Its accepted from the expert reports the septic tank doesnt appear to be damaged, albeit it 
isnt functioning as intended as a result of the damage in the drainage field. 
According to the reports Ive seen, the septic tank is based within the boundaries of Mrs Ds 
property. And the septic tank itself is specifically covered under section 14 of the policy.
The loss adjuster sent Mr L an email on 8 August 2019, stating they didnt consider the 
drainage field was covered within the definition of buildings as set out by the policy. The 
drainage field is not located within the boundary of Mrs Ds home, but in a field belonging to 
a third party. On this basis, I dont consider the drainage field is covered by the policy as it is 
based outside of the boundary of Mrs Ds home. 
In addition to this, the policy only covers the septic tank itself, not the pipes from it. Whereas 
the policy specifically mentions covering underground pipes extending from the buildings to 
the public mains. And I think if the intention of the policy was to cover similar underground 
pipes relating to the septic tank, then it would have set this out. 
As it hasnt done so, I dont consider the intention of the policy is to provide cover for 
underground pipes or drainage field linked to the septic tank. It follows, I dont think the 
drainage field is covered by the policy as, not only is it based outside the boundary of Mrs 
Ds property, but the policy only provides cover for the septic tank. AXA has also declined the claim, on the basis the expert report dated 4 July 2019 concluded 
the damage to the drainage field had most likely been caused by heavy agricultural 
equipment being used and stored above the drainage field. Based on the expert report 
provided, the conclusion this damage has occurred gradually does not appear to be 
unreasonable. 
In summary, the drainage field has been identified as the cause of the failure of the system. 
The conclusion the damage occurred gradually appears reasonable based on the evidence 
provided. The policy only provides cover for the undamaged septic tank, not the drainage 
field, despite Mr Ls arguments they are a one complete system. The policy definition of 
buildings means the policy only needs to cover items within the boundary of the land 
belonging to Mrs Ds home, but the drainage field is located in a third parties land. For these 
reasons, I dont consider AXA is required to take any steps to settle Mrs Ds claim. I realise 
this will be a disappointment to her, and Im sorry for this.   
AXA has said that if its provided with any further information which indicates the septic tank 
has been damaged it will consider this to see if there are any grounds for a claim under the 
policy. 
Mr L has suggested that any ordinary policy holder would consider the drainage field to a 
septic tank would be covered by a buildings policy. He feels where is it not covered explicitly 
it should have been brought to Mrs Ds attention when the policy was purchased. However, 
this complaint is about AXAs decision to decline the claim. If Mrs D has concerns about how 
she was sold this policy  if she was sold it  she may be able to raise a complaint with that 
company directly if she has not already done so. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint against AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman