DRN-3432992
The complaint
Mr H complains that Starling Bank Limited reduced transfer limits to cryptocurrency accounts 
without notifying him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I would say at the outset I can understand Mr Hs frustration with the introduction of the 
reduced transfer limit. However, I do not consider I can safely conclude the bank has done 
anything wrong. 
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them.
The bank took a commercial decision to reduce the transfer limit of monies being moved to 
certain types of account which it deemed to be high risk. I cannot seek to interfere with that 
decision. However, it seems that the lack of communication about the change was a key 
element in Mr Hs complaint. He says that if he had been made aware or if he had been told 
promptly once he made enquires he may have been able to make the investments he 
wished to make.
While I can see that it may have been better had the change been publicised the bank was 
under no obligation to do so. Its terms and conditions state that:  
We may immediately and without notice to you, make changes to: (ii) any terms in this 
Agreement related to certain non-regulated payment or banking services, including those for 
Digital Wallets and (iv) this Agreement where permitted by law. If you do not wish to accept 
any changes we may make, you can close your Account at any point before the new 
Agreement comes into force.
As such I cannot say the bank has done anything wrong. It has operated within its terms and 
conditions.
The second issue in regard to delays is that the first call handler Mr H spoke to had to seek 
advice about the change and wasnt able to answer his question immediately. While he was 
wating for a response Mr H made use of the banks chatline and discovered the reason why 
he could not make the transfer. While I have noted the urgency of Mr Hs investment plans I 
do not consider the short delay to have been unreasonable. 
The bank was not seeking to dictate how Mr H used his money, but it was taking reasonable 
precautions to protect its customers and itself. I gather Mr H is an informed investor and was 
content with the proposed investment, but the bank had a wider duty of care and it is 
regrettable that this got in Mr Hs way.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman