DRN-3731683
The complaint
H, a limited company, complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund a payment that it 
didnt authorise from its account.
What happened
H disputed a card payment of £219.59 taken under a continuous payment authority (CPA). It 
said that it never agreed to this. Although the merchant involved had provided a refund it had 
deducted an administration charge of £36 from that.
Starling Bank said it wouldnt be refunding this remaining amount. It said that the merchants 
terms and conditions referred to there being a CPA. A tick box accepting those terms and 
conditions had to be completed to proceed with an order. And it provided a link to the 
merchants website page which referred to services being subject to renewal. Starling Bank 
said H would have been aware of this when going through the sign-up process. And the 
merchant said in response to a general query that its process was to send a renewal notice 
in advance. The fee for cancelling within 14 days of payment was set out in the terms and 
conditions.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that Starling Bank 
needed to show that the merchant had made H sufficiently aware of the CPA. That was 
more than it being included in the terms and conditions. And so, he didnt think that the CPA 
was authorised by H. He said that Starling Bank should refund H £36 plus eight per cent 
simple interest to the date of settlement.
Starling Bank didnt agree and said it couldnt see it was responsible for this refund. It 
referred again to the information it had provided about the merchants website.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with card details. And if a payment wasnt 
authorised H wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
Guidance about CPAs was issued by the Office of Fair Trading, the then relevant authority in 
2012, and the Financial Conduct Authority has since confirmed that these principles still 
apply. Key to those is that a merchant should make clear that it is using a CPA and that the 
relevant parts are displayed clearly and not just included in the terms and conditions. And 
that failure to get informed consent may mean that a refund is appropriate.
It is clear that in April 2021 H did purchase certain company services from the merchant 
including it arranging a confirmation statement for H and providing a service address for 
each director. 
I can see for example from public records about H at Companies House that a confirmation 
statement was made on the day before the renewal date given by the merchant. And that in 
March 2022 H had changed its registered address from the service address used by that 
merchant. H also changed the service address details for the directors at a relevant time. Im 
satisfied on balance that it was making alternative arrangements to the ongoing use of the 
merchant.
Ive looked at the website for the merchant. But I cant see exactly what H would have seen 
about payment when it got to entering details. I understand Starling Banks point that this 
seemed to be a renewal service. But this is based on its general questions of the merchant 
and what can be seen on the website. And thats because after H had disputed the payment, 
the merchant had made the refund set out above. So, Starling Bank didnt consider it had a 
basis to make a chargeback as the refund had been in line with the terms and conditions. 
That means that it hasnt for example got any other specific information about what actually 
happened when H purchased the services in 2021 and anything to show that the CPA was 
appropriately brought to Hs attention. And nor is there anything showing that H actually 
received a renewal notice as the merchant said it should and so allowing sufficient time to 
cancel without any administration charge.
I also note that even if a chargeback had been made that it is subject to the rules of the 
relevant scheme. And it wouldnt be a definitive outcome as to whether a payment was 
authorised or not.
On one hand I can see why Starling Bank takes the view that H agreed to the CPA and 
ought to have familiarised itself with the terms and conditions, having needed to tick a box 
stating it accepted them. But thats not enough here to show that the CPA was sufficiently 
brought to Hs attention and positively confirmed. And H says that it wasnt and as I say it 
seemed to be making plans to move away from these services. So, on balance Im not 
persuaded that H consented to the CPA. And as it didnt continue to access or require 
services I think that it should have been refunded the full amount.
I conclude that H didnt authorise this payment and is fairly due a full refund under the PSR. I 
agree with the recommendation of the investigator.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Starling Bank Limited to:
1) Refund H £36.
2) Pay H simple interest of eight per cent per annum from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman