DRN-3125421
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt reimbursed her for her 
losses after she transferred money to an investment company that turned out to be a 
scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Miss S has been the victim of a scam. She was 
tricked into sending £40,000 (2 x £20,000 payments on 4 March 2019) to invest in 3 
separate bonds that appeared to be offered by a legitimate company. However, 
unbeknown to Miss S, she had actually been dealing with scammers who were operating 
as a clone of a legitimate FCA regulated investment company  using all of their 
genuine literature and documentation.
Miss S went to branch to make both payments and spoke to a member of branch staff. 
Miss S feels that if Halifax had told her that her money wouldnt be protected if this 
turned out to be a scam, she wouldnt have proceeded to make the transfers.
Halifax didnt agree that it could have done anything more than it had to protect Miss S 
and so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt the two transactions were unusual 
and out of character when compared to Miss Ss usual account activity. And she 
recognised that some questions were asked about the transfers by branch staff at the 
time. However, she felt that even if Halifax had gone on to ask further probing questions, 
its unlikely that the scam wouldve come to light. She didnt think there was anything 
about the circumstances leading up to the payments that wouldve put Halifax on notice 
that Miss S mightve been at risk of financial harm. And she didnt think it wouldve 
become apparent to Halifax that Miss S was dealing with a cloned company.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Miss S. I have significant 
sympathy for the situation she has found herself in. But having thought very carefully 
about what shes told us happened at the time and Halifaxs actions, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable for me to hold Halifax liable for her loss.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Miss Ss complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
Halifax should reimburse her with the money she has unfortunately lost to the scammers. 
Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account 
the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Halifax should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud 
and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with 
than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Miss S when she transferred £40,000 to a fraudster and when she reported 
the fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did.
It is not in dispute that Miss S authorised the transfers herself. Because of this, Halifax 
had an obligation to follow her instructions. But there are some situations in which it 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - 
as Ive explained above. I consider that as a matter of good practice Halifax shouldve 
been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So, Ive first thought about whether the transfers Miss S made could be considered out 
of character and unusual when compared with her usual account activity. And, having 
reviewed Miss Ss statements for the months leading up to the scam, Im 
satisfied two payments of £20,000 were unusual for Miss S and uncharacteristic for this 
particular account - there had been no comparable legitimate payments in recent 
times. The initial transfer is significantly higher than those made from the account 
previously and it is being made to a new payee. Both Miss S and Halifax acknowledge 
that some questions were asked about the payments. But Im satisfied Halifax ought 
fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, to have done more here. Im 
satisfied Halifax shouldve questioned Miss S further about the circumstances that had 
led to her making the payments before it processed them.Because Im satisfied that Halifax shouldve asked Miss S further probing questions 
about the payments before it processed them, Ive then had to think about whether 
any further intervention wouldve ultimately made a difference or not.
It is impossible for me to say exactly how any conversation between Miss S and 
Halifax would have unfolded. And so, I must base my decision on what I think is most 
likely to have happened had Halifax intervened further. Ive done this by considering 
the usual types of questions I wouldve expected Halifax to ask Miss S had they 
contacted her - alongside what Miss S has told us about the circumstances that led to 
her making the transfers. Having done so, I dont think further intervention from Halifax 
wouldve made a difference. Im not persuaded that further questioning wouldve 
uncovered the scam and Im persuaded Miss S wouldve gone on to make the 
payments regardless. Ill explain why.
Miss S has said she told branch staff she was making payments to an investment 
company. Once aware that Miss S was planning to invest, there are some additional 
questions about the investment itself I wouldve reasonably expected Halifax to ask. I 
wouldve expected Halifax to ask if Miss S was cold-called, how she came across the 
company she was planning to invest with, whether shed completed any checks on the 
company and what returns shed been promised. And then I wouldve expected Halifax to 
see if any of Miss Ss answers mirrored what the bank ought to have known about the way 
investment scams tend to be perpetrated. But overall, Im not persuaded, on balance, that 
Miss Ss answers to any of the above wouldve necessarily given Halifax reasonable 
cause for concern.
Miss S has told us that she had been put in touch with the investment company by her 
brother. Miss S considered her brother financially savvy and trusted his financial advice. 
He had told Miss S that he had carried out all of the necessary checks on the investment 
company, including checking the FCA register and looking at their accounts on Companies 
House. Miss Ss brother had also invested in the company and had passed on the details 
to Miss S, who had met with an employee of the company in-person to discuss her 
investment options. And so, whilst Miss S hadnt carried out any checks herself, her 
brother had already carried out the types of checks I wouldve expected Halifax to direct 
Miss S to. And its clear that she trusted and was happy to rely on what her brother had 
told her. The checks completed by Miss Ss brother had assured him that he was dealing 
with a genuine regulated firm. It is only now, with the benefit of hindsight, that we know 
that a legitimate companys details were being used. Neither Miss S, Miss Ss brother or 
Halifax wouldve been aware of this at the time.
In addition to meeting with and speaking to one of the scammers in-person about the 
investments she was making, Miss S had also been given persuasive literature and 
documentation relating to the investments she was entering into. And the rate of return 
wasnt so wholly unrealistic that I think it wouldve given Halifax reasonable doubt about 
its authenticity. So, overall, Im satisfied Miss S was persuaded the company was genuine 
and I think it wouldve taken more than the bank making the type of enquiries Ive 
highlighted above to persuade her not to continue or alert her or Halifax to the scam.
Ive also thought about whether anything else at this point ought to have alerted Halifax to 
the scam, but Im not persuaded it shouldve. The FCA wasnt aware of the fact the 
original investment company had been cloned at the time the transfers were made and it 
didnt place a warning on its register until after Miss S made the transfers either. And so 
there wouldve been no way for Halifax to have known that this is what had taken place at 
the time Miss S was in branch. And there was no other information or additional checks 
Halifax couldve carried out at that time that wouldve given it reasonable cause to believe Miss S was about to fall victim to a scam either. I dont think it would be reasonable to say 
Halifax branch staff shouldve been concerned enough to have contacted the investment 
company themselves, as Miss S has suggested. At the time everything looked above 
board. And so, I dont think Halifax couldve done more to uncover the scam and I dont 
think it couldve done more to prevent the payments leaving Miss Ss account.
The recovery of funds
Miss S told Halifax shed been a victim of fraud on 18 February 2020. Once notified of 
this, I wouldve expected Halifax to act immediately in trying to recover the funds from 
the beneficiarys bank account. In this case, I dont think Halifax acted as soon as it 
shouldve  it didnt contact the receiving bank until early the next day. However, even 
if Halifax had acted sooner than it did. I still dont think this wouldve resulted in the 
retrieval of Miss Ss funds.
Based on what Miss S has told us and the documentation she has been able to provide, its 
clear that she was dealing with a professional fraudster. Fraudsters of this nature usually 
monitor accounts carefully and remove any funds as quickly as possible to avoid the victim 
becoming aware and notifying their bank and the funds being returned. The removal of the 
funds will often happen within hours of them being received. And so, whilst I appreciate 
Miss S notified Halifax as soon as she became aware of the scam, this was still some 11 
months after the payments had been made and Im satisfied that its more likely than not 
that Miss Ss funds wouldve been removed well before the scam was reported to Halifax.
I am really very sorry to hear about the circumstances Miss S has found herself in. This is 
a particularly cruel scam and I am aware of the on-going impact the loss of this money 
will have on Miss S. But I dont think her loss was caused by any particular failing on 
before of Halifax and so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to conclude 
that Halifax should be liable for her losses. The fault here lies with the fraudsters 
themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint Bank of Scotland plc - trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman