DRN-2746104
Complaint
Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
  
Background
Mr S bought the policy in 2000, several weeks after he took out a credit card. It was taken 
out during a telephone conversation with an advisor.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. In 
summary, whilst it is unable to provide any evidence of what was said during the telephone 
conversation, Barclays says it would have made it clear to Mr S the credit card and PPI were 
separate and that he had a choice about PPI. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. I will now explain my reasons.
At the time of the sale taking place, Barclays had to make it clear that the policy was 
optional, and it had to gain Mr Ss consent before applying PPI to his account. But Mr S says 
he didnt agree to the PPI and it was added without his knowledge or consent. 
Mr S took out his credit card by postal application. Barclays has provided us with a copy of 
the application form. Having looked at it, Mr S was given an option to tick for PPI if he 
wanted to take it out. On Mr Ss completed application form he left the section blank. 
Just over six weeks after his credit card had been opened, Barclays has said a telephone 
conversation took place with Mr S and PPI was then added to Mr Ss credit card account. 
But its not clear whether Barclays called Mr S or Mr S had called in. And Barclays doesnt 
have a call recording, a transcript of the call or the sales script that its advisor should have 
used when it sold the PPI. So Ive thought about what both Mr S and Barclays have said and 
looked at the information available.
Barclays has said its advisor would have assessed Mr Ss circumstances and requirements 
at the time, following the relevant codes of practice at the time. It says that the advisor 
wouldnt have added the policy to Mr Ss account without his express consent as it would 
have needed Mr S to actively confirm his acceptance of the policy. It believes Mr S changed 
his mind about taking PPI having heard more about the policy. In addition, it has said that 
the PPI would have shown on his bank statements until it was cancelled and he had the 
option to cancel the policy at any time. 
Ive thought carefully about what Barclays has said, including the information it has sent 
about the codes of practice governing the selling of PPI that it says it followed at the time. 
And whilst I am mindful that a significant amount of time has passed since the sale, I havent 
seen anything to show me how the policy was presented on the telephone call or that Mr S 
agreed to have it. I think this is particularly important in this case given that Mr S didnt 
indicate he wanted PPI when he took out the credit card, yet a short time later, after likely 
being given the same information about the policy, he apparently changed his mind and it 
was added to his account.) So Im not persuaded I can fairly say it is more likely than not that 
Mr S was given a clear choice about PPI and he chose to take it out.
So I think its fair to uphold the complaint.
  
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much Mr S would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr S owes and what he would 
have owed.
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If  when Barclays works out what Mr S would have owed each month without PPI     
Mr S paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr S wouldve owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 
8% a year
C. Barclays should tell Mr S what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman