DRN-2058931
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about the price charged by Unum for her dental insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs P had a dental policy with Unum since 2016 which renewed annually. 
Mrs P received a renewal notice in December 2019 informing her that the premium was 
increasing from the previous year. This was the first time an increase had been applied. 
Mrs P was unhappy. She said it was a sudden increase of over 60% so she complained to 
Unum and asked it to explain the increase. She also asked for her policy to be cancelled, 
which Unum did. 
Unum responded to the complaint and explained why it had increased the premium following 
a review. But Mrs P remained unhappy so she referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Unum had done anything wrong. 
She was satisfied the business had acted fairly when calculating Mrs Ps premium. 
Mrs P disagreed didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt set the rules on how an insurer can price their policies. We generally 
take the view that its up to an insurer how much to charge for its policies. So long as it 
exercises this judgment fairly and consistently, and in accordance with its internal guidelines, 
its a matter in which we wouldnt normally interfere. 
And the Financial Conduct Authority doesnt regulate the prices an insurer charges or the 
methods used to calculate a price. So I cant make any comment on the way an insurer 
chooses to assess a risk or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. But I can check 
whether the business has applied any terms fairly and also that it hasnt treated Mrs P 
unfairly compared to others in the same position as her. 
Unum has explained it takes into account a number of factors when looking at premiums, 
including experience, increasing healthcare costs and insurance premium tax. 
As our investigator has explained, Unum has provided this service with a breakdown, 
showing what factors contributed to the increase in Mrs Ps premium. We havent been able 
to share that information with Mrs P because its commercially sensitive. However, Ive 
checked this information and Id like to reassure Mrs P that Im satisfied Unum has 
calculated her premium accurately and fairly. 
Ive checked the criteria applied by Unum and it has applied the same criteria to other 
customers in the same position. As I havent seen anything which shows that Mrs P was 
treated differently or unfairly, I dont think its done anything wrong here.
Overall, although I appreciate why Mrs P feels the premium increases were unfair, Im 
satisfied Unum hasnt made any errors and hasnt treated Mrs P unfairly. It can increase 
premiums based on the risk its prepared to take.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman