DRN-3757913
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) lent to 
her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs B applied for a credit card with Tesco in September 2018. She was accepted and given 
a credit limit of £1,300. Her credit limit was never increased.
Mrs B says that Tesco shouldnt have provided her with the credit. She says it didnt take 
account of her financial situation at the time and that it should have refused her credit. She 
says Tesco didnt check properly that it was affordable for her and that she has struggled 
with debt as a result. 
Our adjudicator originally thought that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. However, Tesco 
asked for the decision to be reviewed with new information. Once this new information was 
received and considered our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He didnt think 
Tesco had done anything wrong in making its lending decision. 
Mrs B disagreed. She said that she was being subsidised by her husband at the time of 
application and that her bank statements which shed provided to this service didnt include 
food shopping.
As Mrs B did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Tesco 
acted unfairly and lent to Mrs B irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Tesco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B could afford 
to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount, Mrs Bs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Tesco has provided evidence of the checks it completed when opening Mrs Bs account. It 
says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Mrs B in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Tesco saw that Mrs B had no County Court Judgements (CCJs), 
Individual Voluntary Arrangements (IVA), current arrears or bankruptcy. It showed that she 
had previously defaulted on two credit accounts, but the most recent of those was 21 months 
before her application and was for a small amount. It showed that she had about £3,700 of 
outstanding unsecured debt. 
In her application Mrs B told Tesco that she earned £11,000 a year and had a net monthly 
income of £1,100. Its not clear why there is a discrepancy between the two figures as clearly 
on an income of £11,000 a year her net income was unlikely to be £1,100 a month. 
Mrs B declared a monthly rent of £275. Tesco thought (using external data) that this was 
more likely to be in the region of £330 and took this higher figure into account, even though it 
was entitled to rely on Mrs Bs declaration. Tesco made a reasonable assumption of Mrs Bs 
other living expenses using ONS data. It also took into account that Mrs B was using about 
60% of her existing credit lines and assumed that she paid back 2.5% of that balance a 
month. I think thats too low, as at that rate Mrs B would be unlikely to be making a 
significant dent in her borrowing, if she was also paying interest on that sum. If she was 
paying back her borrowing at a sustainable level which reduced her debt as well as paying 
interest I think a rate of 5% is fairer. At this cost Mrs B would have been paying back about 
£187 a month. Mrs B used the Tesco card to move £1,200 of that debt to a 0% interest deal, 
so she would have been paying significantly less than that in any case. 
Using these figures, even if Mrs Bs monthly income was only £900 a month and she was 
paying a greater percentage off her existing credit balances each month, it would mean she 
had a disposable income after other essential outgoings of about £110 a month.
Based on this a credit limit of £1,300 appeared affordable and Mrs B didnt appear to be 
overindebted. Overall, Im satisfied that the checks Tesco completed were reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances and it didnt make an unfair lending decision.
Mrs B has said that she was subsidised by her husband and that bank statements she 
provided to us didnt show all her expenses. But even if that is the case, I think the checks 
Tesco completed were reasonable. I would not expect Tesco to have completed further 
checks on Mrs Bs income and expenditure given the outcome of its own credit checks with a 
reputable credit reference agency, Mrs Bs declared income and the relatively low credit limit 
provided. 
So, on balance, I dont think Tesco acted unfairly in providing Mrs B with the credit and I 
dont think Mrs B lost out as a result of anything Tesco did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. It follows that Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman