DRN-3069511
The complaint
Mr D and Ms L cancelled their travel insurance policy. They complain that Great Lakes 
Insurance SE hasnt offered them a fair premium refund.
What happened
On 25 February 2020 Mr D and Ms L purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy 
covering trips within Europe. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes and was initially 
valid from 7 March 2020 until 6 March 2021.
Mr D and Ms L paid a total premium of £119.65 which included cover for a number of 
declared medical conditions as well as an optional travel disruption extension which they 
added to the policy on 13 March 2020. 
Shortly after this, Mr D and Ms Ls planned holidays were cancelled due to Covid-19 travel 
restrictions. And on 10 July 2020 Mr D and Ms L contacted Great Lakes to ask that their 
policy be cancelled and the premium they had paid refunded. 
Great Lakes said that as the policy had been cancelled outside of the 14 day cooling off 
period it wasnt able to issue them with a refund. But it did offer them a pro rata credit of 
£46.73 which is said could be used for the following options:
An opportunity to receive a pro rata voucher towards buying a new 15-month annual 
policy for the price 12, at the current market rates...
Or the opportunity to receive a pro rata voucher towards buying a deferred annual 
policy. This will be a 12-month policy, at the current market rates. You can then 
choose to start the cover at any time within 12 months of purchasing the policy. 
Or, we now offer UK only annual multi trip policies, where there is a potential to 
upgrade the destination area at a later date **subject to Terms and Conditions**
Mr D and Ms L werent happy with this response. They would like a monetary refund of the 
full premium they paid for their policy. So they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 7 March 2020 and the policy covered 
various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to give Mr D and Ms L a pro-rata voucher refund of the premium they 
paid for their policy from 10 July 2020 when they first let it know they wanted to cancel their 
policy. The investigator said this pro-rata refund should be calculated including the premium 
Mr D and Ms L paid for their optional travel disruption extension. And should be adjusted to 
fairly reflect the discount applied to the policy at the point of sale. The investigator also said 
they felt that a voucher, subject to its restrictions and limitations being reasonable, was a fair 
alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances.
Great Lakes accepted our investigators findings and offered Mr D and Ms L a revised pro 
rata voucher refund totalling £78.67. It said that it had since withdrawn the options for 
customers to purchase a 15-month annual policy for the price of 12 months, or to defer the 
policy start date for 12 months. But that the voucher would instead be valid for 36 months. 
The voucher is non-transferable and cannot be used towards single trip policies.
Our investigator relayed Great lakes new offer to Mr D and Ms L, but they didnt accept it. 
Mr D and Ms L would still like a full monetary refund and advised that they thought the total 
premium they had paid for the policy and additional extensions was closer to £160. So the 
case was passed to me to decide.
Our investigator has since clarified the amounts Mr D and Ms L paid for their policy with both 
parties. I understand the figure of £119.65 is correct, with Mr D and Ms L paying an initial 
premium of £75.67 on 25 February 2020, and a further £43.98 on 15 March 2020 to add a 
travel disruption extension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel the policy
Date of effect of cancellation made by you
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later.
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Im upholding this complaint to the extent that I think Great Lakes should calculate Mr D and 
Ms Ls refund voucher as per our investigators recommendation. That is, by dividing the 
actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on 
risk - so as to fairly reflect the discount applied at the point of sale. It should include the 
premium they paid for the optional travel disruption extension within this calculation.I say this because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that if a policy is cancelled 
outside of the 14 day cooling off period no premium will be refunded  though Great 
Lakes may exercise discretion in exceptional circumstances. The policy provides 
examples of such circumstances including bereavement and a change to the policy 
resulting in Great Lakes declining to cover a policyholders medical conditions. These 
examples clearly relate to very individual circumstances. Mr D and Ms L cancelled 
their policy due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, which affected the travel 
plans of a great number of people. As such I dont think it would be reasonable to 
expect Great Lakes to use the discretion referred to here in this situation.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case I think the insurers revised offer of a pro rata 
refund calculated from 10 July 2020 and using the method set out by our investigator 
is fair. I appreciate Mr D and Ms L did not make a claim under their policy, and 
government restrictions on travel came into force shortly after the policy period 
started. However prior to 10 July 2020 when Mr D and Ms L first contacted Great 
Lakes and let it know that their holidays had been cancelled, Great Lakes was still 
bearing the risk that they may have taken a trip, or had to cancel a trip they had 
planned during the period of insurance, due an event insured by the policy  for 
example illness or injury. And it is fair that it should retain some premium for this.
Mr D and Ms L clearly feel very strongly that Great Lakes should provide them with a 
monetary refund. Theyve told us that they do not wish to use Great Lakes services 
again, and that they have since taken out a travel insurance policy with another 
company. This is of course a decision Mr D and Ms L are entitled to make, but I do 
think that a voucher is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say this because Mr D and Ms L voluntarily entered into a contract with 
Great Lakes whereby they paid a premium for it to provide them with travel insurance 
cover for the period 7 March 2020 to 6 March 2021. The voucher theyve been 
offered represents the unused days of cover after 10 July 2020 when they let Great 
Lakes know that their holidays had been cancelled and they did not wish to travel at 
the current time. And means the risk Great Lakes had accepted at Mr D and Ms Ls 
request is effectively moved to a future date.I understand that part of the reason Mr D and Ms L declined Great Lakes offer of a 
credit voucher is because they did not wish to travel at the time due to Covid-19. I 
appreciate that there is still a degree of uncertainty around the Covid-19 pandemic. 
But I dont feel the terms of the voucher offered by Great Lakes are, or were, 
unreasonably restrictive. At the time of Great Lakes first offer Mr D and Ms L had the 
option to purchase a policy and defer its start date. And whilst Great Lakes says this 
option is no longer available, its told us that the revised voucher offer is instead valid 
for 36 months which gives Mr D and Ms L a considerable amount of time to use it. 
The voucher can also be used towards the purchase of a policy which covers only 
U.K. based trips should Mr D and Ms L choose not to travel abroad in the future.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should calculate the value of Mr D and Ms Ls voucher on the following basis:
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for their annual multi-trip insurance policy 
calculated from 10 July 2020. This is to be calculated by dividing the actual price paid 
for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the Travel Disruption extension to be 
calculated as above. 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint to the extent that Ive outlined above. I direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman