DRN-3560598
The complaint
Mrs R complained about the service provided by Financial Administration Services 
Limited (trading as Fidelity). She is not happy that Fidelity do not automatically invest a 
surplus cash balance from her account when she has enough in there to do so. She 
says she has lost out as these funds have not been invested. She says she has not 
been treated fairly by Fidelity.   
What happened
Mrs R held a Stocks and Shares ISA with Fidelity. Mrs R has been making a monthly 
payment into her ISA called a regular payment plan. Through this plan, she decided to 
invest a percentage of her monthly cash into an exchange traded fund. The amount she 
decided to invest each month into this fund, has allowed fidelity to buy 2 shares. There 
has been a surplus as she has not had enough for a third share. This surplus amount 
has been retained by Fidelity as a cash balance.
Mrs R said that she expected Fidelity to invest her cash balance into the fund once the 
surplus was built up enough for her to be able to afford a share. She said she would 
have expected this to be done automatically. She checked with Fidelity, and it said that 
this wouldnt happen. She said, it told her that if she wanted to invest the cash balance 
that she would need to do this manually.
Mrs R is unhappy about what was said by Fidelity. She said Fidelity charges more 
money for a manual transfer instruction and that it should invest automatically as part of 
the lower fee offered for the regular savings plan. She said there was no mention of 
Fidelity not investing all her allocation automatically on its website. She said it should 
invest automatically like it would do in a dividend reinvestment plan, something she 
could see working with other investments that she held.  Mrs R said part of her ISA 
allowance is not being used and is instead being left as a cash balance. She said she 
thought all the allocation from her payment she made each month to the fund should be 
used. She doesnt think she has been treated fairly. She said she would like Fidelity to 
invest her money as she has requested and buy units when it can automatically, when 
her cash balance has accrued enough to do so. 
Fidelity responded to Mrs Rs complaint. It said all information about its regular savings plan 
can be found on its website. It said within the terms and conditions, there is a section about 
making an investment, that gives an explanation about the service including what happens 
to any additional amount staying as cash. It said there was also a term relating to charges 
and confirmed the charges Mrs R mentioned were correct. 
Fidelity agreed with Mrs R that an automated process to reinvest any surplus cash would be 
beneficial and said it would pass the suggestion on. It finally said it was sorry for time taken 
to respond to Mrs Rs complaint and for this it arranged a payment of £50. 
Mrs R wasnt happy with Fidelitys response so referred her complaint to our service. At this 
stage, she said she was investing more and so the surplus amount was larger each month. 
She reiterated that Fidelity wasnt treating her fairly by not automatically reinvesting her 
surplus amount. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Rs complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
He said that although he understood Mrs Rs frustrations, Fidelity had laid out in its terms 
and conditions what it would do with any surplus amount that it couldnt buy shares with. 
He said he didnt think Fidelity had done anything wrong. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She said she was treated unfairly by Fidelity, and this is because she 
has been required to allocate a percentage of her monthly savings rather than give 
specifically the amount of shares she wanted, so would in nearly all circumstances have a 
surplus. She said this was a requirement imposed by Fidelity. She asked for an 
ombudsmans review and so her complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld Mrs Rs complaint, and these are my findings that explain why:
Mrs R has said she wouldve expected Fidelity to automatically reinvest any 
surplus cash balance on her account. She makes the point that this has been 
achieved with other investments that she holds where any dividend payment for 
example is reinvested automatically. She doesnt understand why Fidelity are not 
doing this also here with the regular savings plan and her investment into an 
exchange traded fund.
Mrs R also made the point that Fidelity didnt give her the choice to stipulate that 
she wanted to buy a certain number of shares, only that she should say how 
much she wanted to invest of her monthly amount as a percentage of that 
amount. She says this means that there will almost always be a surplus. And that 
this surplus will be held in cash and not invested. This means that she will have 
some of her annual ISA allowance not invested and held as cash, something she 
didnt want. So, she thinks Fidelity are not treating her fairly.
I understand and acknowledge the points that Mrs R has made. I can see that 
each month, Mrs R has had a surplus balance that has not amounted to the 
value of one share and this surplus amount has been moved onto a cash 
balance. Other investment trusts that Mrs R has held within her ISA, offer partial 
shares so any percentage that she has allocated to them, has been fully invested 
in the trust that she has chosen. But with exchange traded funds, this is not the 
case and shares can only be purchased in the whole. So, because of this and 
how Fidelity runs its regular payment plan, in all likelihood a surplus will be 
created. I think in this instance it would be fair and reasonable of Fidelity to 
explain from the outset to Mrs R what happens to this surplus cash. So, Ive had 
a look at what it has submitted to our service about that.  
I have looked through the documentation provided by both parties to see whether 
Mrs R was given clear information about what happens to any surplus amount of 
cash with investment into exchange traded funds. After looking through 
statements, terms and conditions and a screenshot, I think on balance she was.I can see in a screenshot provided by Fidelity. It shows that Mrs R would have 
needed to click in a box to declare she understood the terms and conditions of 
the service being provided by it. Fidelity had provided links within this screen 
prompt including a terms and conditions document called doing business with 
Fidelity.
Mrs R also received monthly statements from Fidelity and within a section called 
prices and charges, Fidelity again provided a link to its terms and conditions 
document. 
I have looked through Fidelitys terms and conditions document doing business 
with fidelity and can see what Mrs R would have been able to look at when she 
agreed to invest in an exchange traded fund. On page 8 under the section 
making an investment with us at the bottom of the page it states, all cash will 
stay within your account and will not be automatically used to buy further 
exchange traded instruments. On the same page it also states when setting up 
regular contributions into an exchange traded asset such as an ETF or a share, 
you will need to ensure that the investment amount is enough to cover one share 
plus dealing fees. If your investment amount is not enough to cover one share, 
we will still collect your direct, and this will stay as cash within your account.
Mrs R says she has seen the above term and it doesnt relate to her situation as 
it relates to one share, and she was buying more. But I think when I consider 
what is said on this page and the prompts that Fidelity has provided for Mrs R to 
find and read them, I think it is more likely than not she wouldve been given 
enough information to make an informed choice about whether to invest in an 
exchange traded fund or not. I think on balance Mrs R wouldve been aware or 
ought to have been aware that the issue referred to above would likely arise 
regardless of the number shares being purchased and any surplus cash wouldve 
been transferred to a cash balance. 
Mrs R says she would like Fidelity to invest her money as she has specified in 
her regular savings plan, using any surplus amount to buy shares. She points to 
a dividends reinvestment plan within shares she holds elsewhere, to make the 
point that it can be and is done elsewhere. But Fidelity does not currently offer 
that service. It is a commercial decision by Fidelity to decide not to do this and I 
note that it has said it will take Mrs Rs suggestion on board.
I cant direct Fidelity to provide services or ask it to change the way it operates 
them. My role as an ombudsman, is to consider whether, on the balance of 
probabilities Fidelity failed to deliver the services it set out to provide to Mrs R 
and whether it treated her fairly. In the circumstances of Mrs Rs complaint, I 
think on balance it did.      
Looked at overall, I dont think Fidelity did anything wrong with how it provided its services 
to Mrs R on this occasion. It has paid £50 to Mrs R as it says it didnt respond to her 
complaint in the way it shouldve done. I understand it has already paid this amount to her. 
As this is the case theres nothing else it needs to do to put things right.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs R, but I hope she will at least feel 
that her complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to 
explain how I've reached my conclusions.My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman