DRN-4372388
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way ALD Automotive Ltd t/a Kia Contract Hire (ALD) 
administered a hire agreement hed taken out to acquire a car. 
What happened
Mr H entered into a hire agreement with ALD in March 2019 to acquire a new car. He made 
an advance rental payment of around £3,800 and he was required to make 47 further 
repayments of around £425. The hire agreement set out the duration was for a fixed period 
of 48 months and that the first regular hire payment would be due during the month after 
delivery of the vehicle.
The agreement set out that although Mr H didnt have a statutory right to terminate the 
agreement before the end of the fixed period of hire, he could request early termination. ALD 
wouldnt withhold consent, but it said it would be entitled to charge an early termination fee 
reflective of its expected costs. It said it would provide a quote upon request. 
Mr H said he returned the car a month prior to the end of the agreement  the end of 
February 2023. He said the car was checked and returned without penalty, but ALD still 
asked him to pay for the final months hire agreement repayment even though he no longer 
had the car. He complained about this. He said he was also told he wasnt entitled to bid for 
the car and that it must be auctioned. He said he later found out the car was taken to a local 
dealer and put up for sale. So he said he was misinformed. 
ALD said all the payments remain due, and that the February 2023 payment was the final 
payment within the agreement. ALD said the car was returned at the end of the term as 
opposed to through early termination. ALD said even if Mr H had early terminated the 
agreement, by the time he did that, the February 2023 payment was already due. It said it 
can agree to collection in the month prior to the contract ending but this doesnt stop the final 
payment becoming due. Mr H said ALDs communication was poor, and he highlighted hed 
returned a car a month early; it had low mileage; and it was in pristine condition. So ALD 
wouldnt incur extra costs. 
ALD sent a final response but didnt uphold the complaint. It highlighted all invoices were 
raised and due by the point Mr H decided to hand back the car. It said Mr H chose the 
mileage limit and there were no clauses that offer a reimbursement if the maximum mileage 
isnt utilised. Mr H referred his complaint to our service to consider. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that ultimately 
the final payment had become due. And that ALD was able to choose how it disposed of the 
car once it was returned. 
Mr H didnt accept the assessment. He reiterated ALD didnt send him an early termination 
confirmation in February 2023. He said there was a lack of communication. He explained 
again the car was returned with lower mileage than expected, and in pristine condition. He 
also said he was unhappy ALD misled him about what would happen to the car once it was 
returned.
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to resolve 
complaints quickly and with minimum formality. I want to assure Mr H and ALD that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. If I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this.
Mr H acquired the car using a regulated consumer hire agreement and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
The agreement required an advance payment followed by 47 further payments. I understand 
the agreement commenced in March 2019 so 47 months from then takes us to February 
2023. ALD has shown us the final invoice was raised on 1 February 2023 (even though the 
direct debit wasnt due to go out until later that month). Given Mr H asked to return the car 
after the final invoice was raised, and the car was returned on 28 February 2023 ALD has 
said this was an end of contract collection rather than an early termination. It said it could 
only quote for an early termination if two or more payments were yet to generate. But as the 
final payment had already been generated by the time Mr H had asked to hand the car back 
there was no way for it to quote for an early termination. This would explain why ALD didnt 
send Mr H an early termination quote in February 2023. 
Mr H has said ALD was able to quote for an early termination in 2022, but in line with what 
Ive said above, this was because more than 2 payments were due. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I think ALDs explanation is broadly fair, and in line with the agreement Mr H 
entered into.
Ive also reviewed the terms relating to early termination from the hire agreement. These say 
that Mr H was able to request an early termination at any point during the fixed period. And 
that ALD would charge Mr H the lower of:
1. 100% of the remaining unbilled rentals less any benefits accruing to [ALD] in 
consequence of any such early termination or;
2. 50% of the remining unbilled rentals.
The terms also say early termination doesnt reduce or affect any existing liabilities. Seeing 
as though all the rentals had been billed by the time Mr H wanted to hand the car back, I 
dont think ALD has acted unfairly in the way its administered the final payment that was 
due. But of course I can understand why Mr H thinks hes lost out by handing the car back 
earlier than he had to. I can appreciate Mr H thinks ALD should have made things clearer. ALD said even though the contract ended towards the end of March 2023 it was able to 
arrange collection before this for convenience of the customer. I dont think its extraordinary 
for a customer to wish to hand back a car prior to the final day of the contract term if, for 
example, theyre going away or have another vehicle lined up. I understand Mr H wanted to 
hand the car back because hed acquired another vehicle. Perhaps Mr Hs situation is at the 
extreme end because he handed back the car around a month before the end of the contract 
term. But I dont think it was unfair of ALD to collect the car when it did. ALD said it cant find 
record Mr H told it hed be cancelling his direct debit. And Ive not seen sufficient evidence 
Mr H was told he wouldnt have to make the final repayment. 
I also take on board the fact Mr H returned the car in pristine condition with lower mileage 
than expected. But theres no terms in the agreement that allow for a reduction to be made, 
or for ALD to be required to reimburse Mr H anything on that basis. This is common practice 
on car finance agreements.  
While I sympathise with the situation, I dont find I have the grounds to direct ALD to write off 
or reduce the final payment that had become due before Mr H returned the car. 
I can also understand why Mr H mightve been dissatisfied with the information ALD gave 
him about what would happen to the car once it was returned. If he was misinformed that 
must have been frustrating for him. Mr H says he was misinformed, but ALD says he wasnt. 
I cant generally hold ALD responsible for any misinformation from the dealer, but Mr H has 
said ALD also misinformed him itself. Its difficult to reach firm conclusions on this point 
without supporting evidence. Moreover, while I take on board what he says, unlike with a 
hire purchase agreement for example, theres nothing in the agreement that gives Mr H the 
option to buy the car from ALD. And its not clear any alleged misinformation caused Mr H 
any significant detriment given hes told us he was in the process of acquiring another car. 
So Im not going to make any directions for the alleged misinformation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman