DRN-3328859
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) didnt automatically apply a gambling 
transaction block to his replacement debit card.
What happened
Mr O contacted BOS and advised that he suffered with gambling issues and asked for 
BOSs support. BOS explained to Mr O that he could go online and place a voluntary 
gambling transaction block on his debit card himself, which Mr O then did.
A few months later, Mr O lost his debit card and received a replacement card from BOS. Mr 
O found that the gambling block that hed applied to his old debit card hadnt been carried 
over onto his new card, and he then spent a large sum of money on gambling transactions 
using the new card. Mr O wasnt happy that BOS hadnt applied the gambling block to his 
new debit card and felt that theyd allowed him to make gambling transactions to his own 
detriment. So, he raised a complaint.
BOS looked at Mr Os complaint. They confirmed that the gambling block wouldnt carry over 
onto the new debit card and that it would have needed to be reapplied by Mr O, in the same 
manner that hed done originally, if he had wanted the block on the new debit card. BOS also 
explained that the block was voluntary, and that Mr O retained the ability to instruct the 
removal of the block at any time if he wanted to. Finally, BOS explained that they werent 
willing to reimburse the money that Mr O had spent on gambling as he was wanting, but they 
did offer Mr O a goodwill payment of £50.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that BOS had acted 
unreasonably towards Mr O and felt that the response to Mr Os complaint that BOS had 
already issued represented a fair resolution to what had taken place.
Mr O remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr O might have assumed that the gambling transaction block hed 
voluntarily placed on his old debit card would have carried over to his new debit card. 
Unfortunately, that wasnt the case, and while I acknowledge that Mr O feels that this means 
that BOS should themselves be held responsible for the subsequent gambling transactions 
he then proceeded to make, and that BOS should reimburse the value of those transactions 
to Mr Os account accordingly, this isnt an instruction Id consider issuing to BOS in this 
instance. 
One reason I say this is because the gambling transaction block was voluntary, and Mr O 
was free to instruct the removal of it from his debit card at any time. Similarly, it was also the 
case that Mr O could have added the block back onto his new debit card if hed wanted to, 
when he discovered that the block hadnt been carried over onto his new card. 
As such, while the gambling transaction block offered by BOS does provide customers with 
support to help them manage any gambling issues they may have, the block is voluntary, 
and as such the possibility remains that Mr O could have removed the block himself and 
conducted the gambling transactions that he did here, if he was compelled to do so. 
Additionally, its stated in BOSs terms and conditions that a gambling transaction wont be 
applied to a new card in the event of the old card being reported lost or stolen, and that the 
customer must themselves manually add the block to the new debit card if they want to. 
Finally, it also must be noted that Mr O was never informed by BOS that the gambling block 
would be carried over to the new debit card, and that his belief that it should have been 
carried over was based on an assumption rather than on any information actually given to 
him by BOS.
Ultimately, while I sympathise with Mr Os position, I dont feel that BOS should fairly be held 
accountable for Mr O making the gambling transactions that he did here. And this is because 
the gambling transaction block was voluntary and was never intended to provide the kind of 
failsafe support that Mr Os complaint intimates, and because the terms of the account 
confirm that the block didnt carry over onto a replacement debit card and that Mr O would 
have needed to apply the block to his replacement card himself if hed wanted to.
I realise that this wont be the outcome Mr O was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing BOS to take any further action at this time. I hope that 
Mr O will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman