DRN-3505105
The complaint
Mr B says he instructed Hargreaves Lansdown (HL), on 27 July 2020, to arrange a transfer 
of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) from The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited (Prudential). Prudential was the ceding firm and HL was the receiver in the transfer. 
Prudential was contacted by HL on 3 August 2020, whereby the latter sought transfer forms 
from the former. The transfer process followed thereafter.
Mr B says Prudential caused delays to the transfer process from 3 August 2020 onwards; 
that this delayed completion of the SIPPs asset transfers; and that the delays caused him 
financial losses (including, and/or especially, financial loss from a missed rights issue 
opportunity in Rolls Royce (RR) stock which he would have undertaken before or by the 
deadline of 27 October 2020 but, because of the delays, was unable to).
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and issued two views on it  having 
considered the parties comments on his first view, that was followed by his second. Overall, 
he mainly found as follows:
Mr Bs complaint is primarily about the in-specie element of the transfer, but there 
was also a cash transfer element which could not be executed by Prudential until the 
in-specie element had been completed. Having begun on 3 August 2020 the process 
was not completed until 17 February 2021, which is when Prudential settled the cash 
transfer (a total of £84,343.02), using the effective date of 16 February 2021, and 
sent it to HL.
Prudential initially caused a delay by responding to HLs request (of 3 August) for 
transfer forms on 27 August; HL returned the completed forms on 23 September, 
Prudential is not responsible for the time taken by HL to do that, but it caused 
another delay thereafter by not instructing its administrator (Curtis Bank (CB), a third 
party), until 22 October, to arrange the in specie transfers and to provide the cash 
balance; then, and up the transfer completion in February 2021, Prudential chased 
CB for progress but it does not hold CBs responsibility for its (CBs) role in the 
process.
With allowance for reasonable time, and for Prudentials five working days Service 
Level Agreement (SLA) guidance for such time, Prudential should have conducted 
itself as follows  it received contact from HL on 3 August; it should have issued the 
transfer paperwork by 8 August; it received the completed forms from HL on 23 
September, the time that took was not its fault, but it should then have instructed CB 
to arrange the in specie transfers by 28 September. Thereafter, events were out of its 
control. However, based on these revised timings for action by Prudential  and 
reflecting the time it subsequently took for CB to complete the process at its end  
the earliest re-registration would have happened on 11 December and the transfer 
process would have been completed by 30 December. 
On this basis, and even without the delays caused by Prudential, the transfer would 
not have happened in time for the RR rights issue related deadline of 27 October 
(that is, acceptance for the rights issue being in place by this date and then funds 
being available by 6 November in order to benefit from the lower share price). 
Nevertheless, there was a loss of interest incurred by Mr B with regards to the cash 
transferred on 17 February 2021 that, but for the delay, should have been transferred 
by 30 December 2020. Responsibility for this is between Prudential and CB, and the 
lost interest has been calculated as a total of £710.16. This should be paid to Mr B, 
alongside the £300 Prudential has offered him for the trouble and upset caused by 
the delays.
Mr B rejected this outcome and he noted that both sums offered amount to what Prudential 
has already presented to him, which he declined. There is evidence  in an email from CB to 
Mr B on 9 May 2022  which suggests that CB and Prudential acknowledge equally shared 
responsibility for the payment of £710.16 that has been made to him (through HL) in this 
respect. He appears to have rejected the payment and he says he instructed HL to return it.
Mr B has challenged the investigators conclusion on a number of grounds, and his overall 
submissions include reference to a Pensions Ombudsmans (POs) decision in a case he 
considers to be comparable to his. He mainly says that even based on the revised timeline 
for action by Prudential and on the time HL took to respond  and despite CBs subsequent 
delay in completing the overall process  it remains the case that he would have been able 
to receive three of the four re-registered in-specie funds in the HL SIPP in time to liquidate 
them and reinvest in RR before the deadline. He says redress to him in this respect is 
required, but such redress has not been provided for. For this argument he refers to each of 
the three funds being re-registered, in reality, in 23 working days, and he says if the same 
period is assumed (as it should be) from 9 September (when Prudential ought to have been 
in a position to instruct CB) the re-registrations would have been completed by 13 October. 
He also says the service standards for re-registration quoted by the investigator (that is, 
three to six months) is outdated by decades; that instead the widely recognised turnaround 
period is 20 to 25 working days  or 30 days, as suggested by Stocktrade (the investment 
manager for CB who conducted the re-registrations) in its email of 11 May 2022; and that 
even based on a 30 days turnaround period the re-registrations would have been completed 
in time for the RR related pursuit.
The investigator had noted that it was Mr Bs choice to transfer the relevant funds in-specie 
and that he could instead had pursued the RR related transactions within the Prudential 
SIPP and prior to the transfer but chose not to because he did not wish to confuse matters. 
He said Prudential cannot fairly be blamed for Mr Bs decision not to mitigate in this way. In 
response, Mr B said the investigator is mistaken and that once he instructed the in-specie 
transfers he was unable to trade in the funds until after the re-registrations were completed.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find as follows:
I endorse, as recommended by the investigator, the payment of £300 to Mr B for the 
trouble and upset Prudentials delays caused him. Prudential has made the same 
offer to him in this respect (and its letter to him of 29 July 2021 suggests the £300 
payment was made to him at the time), so I agree with the offer/payment too. Mr B 
appears to have rejected this payment too. Overall, I do not consider that there are grounds within the trouble and inconvenience, in terms of service, caused to him to 
warrant a higher award. There is evidence of the distress the delayed transfer 
service, as a whole, caused him but there is also evidence that action and/or inaction 
by HL and by CB contributed to this, so I am not persuaded that Prudential should 
have to pay more than the £300 award.
The SIPP was in a Prudential Flexible Retirement Plan account and it had three main 
components  an insured funds (IF) section, a self-invested funds (SIF) section and 
cash in the SIF; the process involved transfer of the SIFs cash, settlement of the IF 
(and transfer of the proceeds) and transfer of the SIFs investments in-specie. There 
does not appear to be dispute  or cause for dispute  about the £10,632.06 SIP 
cash and £73,710.96 IF proceeds transferred as of 16 February 2021.
The process meaningfully began on 3 August 2020. I do not consider use of 
Prudentials five working days SLA guidance to be unreasonable in this case and 
both parties have used the same in their submissions. I have done that too. Without 
Prudentials delays (which it concedes and which the investigator set out), and by 
applying the SLA to its actions  but retaining the same time periods taken by HL and 
CB for their actions  it can be assumed that the process should have developed as 
follows;
oPrudential should have issued the transfer forms on 10 August.
oHL would have taken 18 working days, as it took in reality, to return the forms, 
so Prudential would have received them on 4 September.
oPrudential should have instructed CB to conduct the SIF in-specie transfers 
(therefore to begin the process towards re-registrations) on 11 September.
oIn reality, Prudentials records show that it received confirmation from CB on 6 
January 2021 that the SIF in-specie transfers and SIF cash transfer were 
completed on this date; however, the latter was affected by a lack of 
documentation from CB, so it was not settled until 16 February 2021; in terms 
of the former (the in-specie transfers) 6 January 2021 was 51 working days 
from when CB was instructed on 22 October 2020; so, had CB been 
instructed on 11 September 2020 the SIF in-specie transfers would have 
been completed by 23 November 2020.
oIn terms of settlement and transfer of the SIF cash and IF proceeds, that 
happened on 16 February 2021, 81 working days after the instruction to CB 
on 22 October 2020; so, had CB been instructed on 11 September 2020 it 
would have happened on 7 January 2021.
The lost interest (on the SIF cash and IF proceeds) appears to have been calculated 
on an earlier start date of 30 December 2020  and calculated up to the end date of 
16 February 2021. I can see the difference in the assumptions Prudential and I have 
made in this respect, but the main point is that the calculation results in interest over 
a longer period than if the assumed date above of 7 January 2021 were to be used 
as a start date. The interest payment offer to Mr B therefore does not appear to be 
unreasonable. I acknowledge that he rejected it, but he did that mainly because he 
does not consider it a substitute for redress for the RR rights issue pursuit he seeks, 
so he does not consider it a settlement of his case. Before moving to that issue, I 
confirm I do not find that the interest related settlement offer for the delayed SIF cash 
and IF proceeds transfer is unreasonable.
I now turn to the RR rights issue pursuit, redress for which is the focus of Mr Bs 
claim. The approach towards the assumptions made above fit with the approach he 
has argued for in this matter  that is, application of the times re-registrations took, in reality (or even the 30 working days mentioned by Selftrade), to the process whilst 
assuming that Prudential had instructed CB in September 2020. Where I have used 
the date of 11 September he refers to 9 September, but I have identified the cause 
for difference in our calculations and I do not consider it consequential. The 
investigator was not prepared to agree to this approach, in this matter, because he 
considered it safe to take a view on completion of the transfer as a whole (all its 
components) in approaching what Mr B claims about the RR right issue pursuit. 
I agree with Mr B that the actual times taken for re-registrations cannot completely be 
ignored. They lend themselves to considering what could have happened but for 
Prudentials delays in the overall process, and that is why I used the approach above. 
However, for a number of reasons, I share the investigators concern about applying 
that approach to the redress Mr B seeks for the RR rights issue pursuit. 
Prudential has confirmed that CB was not made aware of this pursuit at the time and 
it appears that the same applies to Prudential. In contrast, the PO case that Mr B 
cites as comparator features evidence of the firm being notified multiple times, and 
being aware, of a specific intended post-transfer pursuit. The case and its decision 
are not precedent that must be followed here, and the investigator explained this, but 
I understand Mr Bs reference to it as what he considers to be supporting evidence. 
In this respect, I consider such support to be quite limited for the above reason. 
Depending on the circumstances of a case, it is arguably foreseeable, in investment 
terms, that a cash transfer could probably be destined for time sensitive reinvestment 
after the transfer. The same cannot automatically be said about an in-specie transfer 
of investments which carries the probability of an intention to retain the same 
investments after the transfer. Without notice to the firm, as in the PO case, it is 
difficult to conclude, fairly, that liquidation of the investments and time sensitive 
reinvestment of the proceeds should have been foreseeable  or that there should be 
responsibility for loss if such transactions are subsequently taken and turn out to be 
delayed.
As the investigator said, Mr B chose to transfer the relevant funds in-specie to the HL 
SIPP, instead of conducting any intended RR related transactions within the 
Prudential SIPP. He is not mistaken in this respect or in his reference to Mr B saying 
he chose not to do this because he did not wish to complicate the transfer. In Mr Bs 
complaint to Prudential he said  Clearly if I knew you were going to take this long to 
transfer I would have bought Rolls Royce shares through my SIPP with you but as I 
was in the process of transferring I didn't want to confuse matters. He has referred 
to buying 12,000 RR shares by 27 October 2020 with the funds available to him, but 
his argument about the missed opportunity to buy additional shares at the time 
seems to be based more on what he could have bought with the liquidated proceeds 
of funds re-registered and transferred in specie, as opposed to what he probably 
would have bought in this way. It is in my remit to draw conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities. He has also confirmed that only some of the values in the transferred 
funds could have been used in this way, in his argument not all the funds were to be 
liquidated and reinvested in RR.
With the above uncertainties  and the lack of probability  I too consider it safe, and 
fair, to conclude that assumptions cannot reasonably be made to connect the actual 
times taken to re-register the SIF in-specie assets with the case presented about the 
RR rights issue pursuit and then with the claim for redress in this respect. Without the 
benefit of hindsight, on balance, and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded that 
these connections exist. Redress for this would mean assuming and accepting that 
Mr B would probably have liquidated and reinvested in sequence  based on the re-registrations  as he says he would, but I do not consider that the balance of 
evidence supports this. I do not doubt that he had an interest in investing in RR  the 
shares he bought at the time establish this  but that does not automatically prove 
the above connections. In this context, and on balance, I consider it safe to approach 
the matter on the basis of when the overall transfer process would have been 
completed (that is, transfer of the three components), as opposed to when each 
individual fund would have been re-registered, but for Prudentials delays. As stated 
in the assumptions above, all the in-specie transfers would have been completed by 
23 November 2020 and the SIF cash and IF proceeds would have been transferred 
by 7 January 2021. Neither would have happened before the deadlines (27 October 
and 6 November 2020) related to the RR rights issue pursuit, so I do not find grounds 
to say Prudential is liable for the loss Mr B claims in this matter.
My final decision
For the above reasons, my decision is that The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds 
offer to Mr B of £300 for trouble and inconvenience is fair, that it should not have to pay 
more, that it also should not have to pay more than its (joint) offer of £710.16 for lost interest 
in the case and that Mr Bs claim about financial loss (with regards to the RR rights issue 
pursuit) is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman