DRN-2043893
The complaint
Mr K complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and the service they provided when he 
disputed a pending transaction due to be taken from his current about.
What happened
On 11 May 2020, Mr K signed up for a subscription with a third-party company, who Ill refer 
to as N. As part of this subscription, Mr K was due to be charged £71.00. But Mr K had 
second thoughts about this and decided to cancel his subscription on the same day.
But, when Mr K checked his current account, he realised the £71 was still being recorded as 
a pending transaction, meaning he didnt have access to these funds. So, on 18 May 2020 
he contacted Barclays to dispute this.
When Mr K called Barclays, his first call was disconnected. He then called back and asked 
to speak to a supervisor, only to be passed to another call advisor. On his third call, the 
advisor agreed to reserve the £71 transaction, but Mr K was unhappy with the service he 
received so he raised a complaint.
He complained about his first call being disconnected, meaning hed needed to call back 
again. He was also unhappy hed been placed on hold without his agreement and he felt 
hed been lied to when he asked to be transferred to a supervisor. He also complained about 
the length of time it had taken for the transaction to be reversed as hed needed the money 
to travel home. He explained all of this had impacted his mental health as he was suffering 
from anxiety at the time. He was also unhappy he didnt receive a call back within five 
working days to acknowledge the complaint hed made. So, he wanted Barclays to 
compensate him for the trouble and upset hed experienced.
Barclays responded and upheld his complaint. They agreed their service had fallen short of 
the standard theyd expect. And they recognised how this wouldve impacted Mr K 
considering the anxiety he was suffering from. But they thought theyd resolved his 
immediate issue fairly be reversing the transaction on that day. They also thought theyd 
acknowledged his complaint in writing within five working days but apologised if he was led 
to believe he would be contacted by phone. So, they offered to pay Mr K £70 to 
acknowledge the upset hed been caused and to acknowledge the costs he incurred when 
calling them on several occasions.
Mr K wasnt happy with this response. He didnt think the £70 was enough to recognise the 
impact the complaint had on his mental health. As Mr K remained unhappy, he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained she hadnt 
been able to listen to the calls but didnt dispute Barclays hadnt provided the level of service 
wed expect. And she acknowledged how this wouldve impacted Mr K and the anxiety he 
was suffering with at the time. But she also took into consideration Barclays decision to 
reverse the transaction on the same day Mr K first called to dispute it. Because of this, she 
thought the £70 Barclays offered to recognise the upset Mr K experienced was a fair one 
and she didnt think Barclays needed to do anything further.
Mr K didnt agree. He maintained his belief that the £70 didnt take into account the 
significant impact the complaint had on his mental health. So, he thought Barclays should 
offer more. As Mr K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
First, I want to recognise the upset Mr K has been caused by the complaint. Ive no doubt Mr 
K was both frustrated and annoyed when he realised the transaction was pending, despite 
cancelling his subscription with N and confirming the amount wouldnt be taken. And I can 
understand why this wouldve been made worse by the difficulties he faced in rectifying the 
issue with Barclays directly on 18 May. Im also aware that Mr K has been suffering from 
anxiety and I can understand why the stress caused by this complaint wouldve impacted his 
health. And I want to reassure Mr K that Ive taken this aspect of his complaint seriously 
when coming to a decision.
Ive first looked into Mr Ks complaint that Barclays held onto his money for an unreasonable 
amount of time. Ive seen the transaction was authorised by N on 11 May. But the 
transaction itself was informational, and N didnt take the funds on this date. Barclays have 
explained that transactions such as this are held for a certain amount of time and N were 
able to process the payment during this period. So, Barclays debited the funds from Mr Ks 
available balance on the assumption N would take the funds by midnight on 18 May. This is 
standard process and I dont think Barclays did anything wrong by doing this.
I understand N confirmed with Mr K directly that the payment wouldnt be taken. But N didnt 
confirm this with Barclays. So, Barclays continued to hold the funds from Mr Ks available 
balance. Ive also seen Barclays reversed the transaction on 18 May, the same day Mr K 
disputed the transaction and before the midnight deadline that was already in place. 
Because of this, I think Barclays were acting fairly, in line with the information theyd been 
provided, and I cant agree they were withholding the funds from Mr K unfairly.
But, its not in dispute that the customer service Mr K received fell below the standards Id 
expect on 18 May. Barclays have acknowledged in their response that Mr K had to call them 
several times and a call was disconnected. Theyve also agreed Mr K asked to speak to a 
supervisor, but this action wasnt taken. Because of this, I think Barclays acted unfairly and I 
agree Mr K should be compensated for the impact this caused.
So, Ive then considered whether I think Barclays offer of £70 was fair and reasonable. And 
Im aware this is the main area of dispute. Mr K doesnt think the £70 is a fair offer as it 
doesnt cover the costs of the calls he made. But Mr K hasnt be able to provide evidence of 
the costs hes incurred as he used a friends phones and paid his friend for the use of this in 
cash. Im aware Barclays offer was broken down as £50 compensation to recognise the 
upset Mr K experienced and £20 to cover any call costs he incurred. 
Im aware Mr K made three calls to Barclays, one of this which was disconnected. While I 
agree Mr K shouldnt have needed to call Barclays three times, I think the £20 Barclays 
offered to cover these costs is reasonable as I wouldnt expect three calls to have exceeded this amount. So, without any further evidence to show the actual cost of the calls, I dont 
think they need to offer anything more.
Im also aware Mr K doesnt think the £50 Barclays offered takes into account his anxiety 
and how their service worsened his condition. As Ive already explained, Ive no doubt Mr K 
was left frustrated and upset by the service Barclays provided. Mr K needed the funds 
available to travel home and I can understand the urgency of the situation wouldve made it 
more stressful. And I do think Mr Ks anxiety wouldve meant he found the situation more 
difficult to handle.
But Ive also taken into consideration the fact Barclays were able to reverse the transaction 
on the same day Mr K disputed it. And this reversal was made before the end of the deadline 
for N to take the funds. So, I think Barclays took steps to resolve the issue fairly after Mr K 
made them aware hed been let down by their service.
With this in mind, I think the £50 Barclays have offered is a fair one, and in line with what Id 
look to direct in a similar situation. So, I dont think Barclays need to do anything further.
Im also aware Mr K is unhappy he didnt receive a call to acknowledge his complaint within 
five working days. But as this issue relates to Barclays handling of Mr Ks complaint, this is 
not something Im able to comment on as it falls outside of the Financial Conduct Authority 
rules about what were able to consider.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman