DRN-4188803
The complaint
Mr M complains that when he switched to an account with Nationwide Building Society, he 
was unable to complete transfers of money without a card reader. And that it delayed in 
sending him a new reader.
What happened
Mr M switched his accounts to Nationwide in October 2022. On 16 November he registered 
for online banking, but found that he was unable to make transfers out of the account without 
a card reader. He further complained that Nationwide delayed in sending him the new card 
reader, and as a result he was unable to transfer money to a higher rate account, as he 
found that he wasnt eligible for the switching accounts bonus. He also said that he couldn't 
do some online shopping at preferential rates. He first complained to Nationwide on 
8 February 2023.
Nationwide explained to Mr M that he wasn't automatically sent a card reader when he 
registered for online banking because he had previously held an account with Nationwide 
and he had been sent a card reader when he opened the former account in 2014. 
Nationwide did consider that the card reader was necessary for security purposes. It told him 
that it had ordered a new card reader and when Mr M said this didn't arrive, ordered a further 
one.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Adjudicator said that Nationwide had 
acted reasonably in requiring card readers for some online transfers. She also said that it 
had given a reasonable explanation for not providing a card reader automatically when Mr M 
opened the new account with Nationwide. She noted that Mr M had received the switching 
accounts bonus of £200. She further said Nationwide had ordered the card readers promptly 
and could not be held responsible for any delay in the post.
Mr M said that Nationwide had not acted promptly in sending him a card reader as it took it 
months to do so. He also says that his telephone calls with Nationwide should be listened to 
as they would show the way it had lied about his case.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M complains about two matters concerning his online account with Nationwide. That 
when trying to do a transfer from the account to pay bills he was required to use a card 
reader which wasnt sent to him when he opened his account. Further that Nationwide 
delayed in sending him a new card reader so he was not able to make transfers out of the 
account for months.
When Mr M opened the account with Nationwide, he was not sent a card reader. This was 
because he had previously banked with Nationwide up until 2019 and had been sent a card 
reader when he initially opened that account in 2014. I think that is reasonable, although 
I take Mr M's point that when he was re-registering with Nationwide he could have been 
asked if he needed a new card reader. That's something for Nationwide to consider. 
However I do think that Nationwide's use of the card reader system, used by a number of 
other banks, is a reasonable way of protecting the security of a customers account. And the 
terms and conditions which Mr M would have signed up to when he opened the account do 
say that Nationwide can require an account reader to be used.
I note that, though he may not have been able to make transfers out of the account without 
the card reader, Mr M had full use of the account in other ways. I have noted that he did 
receive the switching accounts bonus.
In respect of the delay in receiving a new card reader, I note that Mr M first complained to 
Nationwide on 8 February 2023. As a result it ordered a new card reader on that day, and 
when Mr M complained he had not received it, ordered a further one on 15 February 2023. 
Nationwide has provided evidence to our Adjudicator to show that it made the orders. So 
I think Nationwide acted reasonably and I can't hold it responsible for any delay in Mr M 
receiving his new card reader. It was sent by ordinary post and if it was not received in the 
post I don't think that Nationwide could be said to be at fault. Nationwide did point out to 
Mr M that he could call in at a branch and pick up a card reader.
In respect of Mr M's telephone calls with Nationwide, I have seen the notes of those calls but 
I can't see why Mr M should allege Nationwide was lying, or what he thinks it was lying 
about. As far as I can see it acted on Mr M's complaints and confirmed that in writing. And, 
as I've said, we have received documentary evidence from Nationwide to confirm that it 
ordered the card readers.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman