DRN-2815239
The complaint
Mr B complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (RateSetter) provided him with incorrect 
information regarding his peer-to-peer crowdfunding account. He says had it provided the 
correct information he would have requested to withdraw his investment sooner. Mr B also 
complains that RateSetter failed to use encrypted emails when sending information about his 
personal details. 
What happened
Mr B held a peer-to-peer crowdfunding account with RateSetter, in which he lent out money 
to borrowers in return for interest payments. RateSetter operated a contingency fund called 
the Provision Fund. The Provision Fund was used to automatically reimburse investors 
their outstanding capital and interest in the event this wasnt paid by a borrower. This in 
effect mutualised risk for all investors by diversifying their exposure across the entire loan 
portfolio. Although payments from the Provision Fund werent guaranteed, payments would 
be made provided there were sufficient funds available in it.
Adhering to new rules implemented by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), in December 2019, RateSetter began informed investors of how money was paid 
out by the Provision Fund. 
Mr B received a February 2020 statement for his account on 3 March 2020 which said £0 
had been paid to him by the Provision Fund since December 2019.
On 16 March 2020 Mr B requested to withdraw his investment from RateSetters platform. 
RateSetter said it had received a spike in requests in week commencing 9th March 2020 to 
release invested money due to the Covid-19 pandemic and as a result it said withdrawals 
were taking longer than usual.
Mr B received a March 2020 statement for his account on 2 April 2020 which explained there 
had been a discrepancy in the Provision Fund payment figure in his last statement. The 
statement explained that £2685.54 had been paid to him by the Provision Fund as of the 
date of this statement, since December 2019.
Mr B raised a complaint with RateSetter in April 2020 as he felt he would have requested a 
withdrawal on receipt of the February 2020 had the correct figure been provided. He said its 
reasonable to expect that investors would use this additional information to assess the risk of 
their investment and it had significant weighting on his decision to remain invested. He said 
the actual Provision Fund payment figure meant that, in his opinion, the investment was too 
high risk for him and he would have withdrawn immediately. 
RateSetter considered Mr Bs complaint and whilst it accepted that an error was made in the 
February 2020 statement, it felt it had correctly rectified this in the March 2020. RateSetter 
explained that the fact that money has been paid out from the Provision Fund does not 
directly link to the risk of an individual investment. It said it uses the interest coverage ratio 
and capital coverage ratio of the Provision Fund as key risk indicators. It said it felt it had 
mitigated the risk of default to Mr B by ensuring his investment was paid by the Provision 
Fund.
Mr B made a subject access request to RateSetter in April 2020 and received a reply in May 
2020 via an unsecure email. This contained sensitive data including bank account details. 
He said this caused him anxiety as he was concerned that a third party might fraudulently 
take out credit in your name. He said RateSettter should fund the cost of credit monitoring 
for a period of one year as a result of its error. 
RateSetter explained that it had no reason to believe that the email it sent had been 
compromised and declined to cover any credit monitoring costs. 
Mr B didnt accept RateSetters findings and so he referred his complaint to this service for 
an independent review. 
Mr B also raised a complaint regarding delays related to his withdrawal request which have 
been dealt with by this service under a different complaint. 
An investigator at this service considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, 
she said that RateSetter had made Mr B aware of the risks attached to investing on the 
platform and how the Provision Fund operated in terms of mitigating risk. So she didnt agree 
that the mis-information provided in the February 2020 statement had any bearing on his 
decision to withdraw from the investment. She said this is supported by the fact that he 
requested to withdraw on 16 March 2020, prior to receiving the corrected Provision Fund 
figure in the March 2020 statement.
She also acknowledged Mr Bs concerns regarding the possibility of someone intercepting 
his personal information included in the unencrypted email. However, she didnt think 
compensation was warranted considering there was no evidence of the email having been 
compromised.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said it was irrelevant that he made the 
withdrawal request before receiving rectified statements, as his decision to withdraw was 
based on other risk factors that changed during that time, such as the World Health 
Organisation declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020.
Whilst Mr B expressed that he no longer wished to take the encrypted email complaint issue 
any further, he remained unhappy with the incorrect information being given in the February 
2020 statement. He was still certain that he would have withdrawn earlier had he been 
provided the correct information and so felt RateSetter ought to treat his withdrawal request 
as being effective on the date the incorrect data was sent to him. He said that whilst this 
wouldn't have resulted in an instant withdrawal, it would have likely resulted in a withdrawal 
several months sooner.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether or not RateSetter provided misleading information isnt in dispute. RateSetter fully 
accepts that it provided incorrect information in his February statement regarding the level 
payments made to Mr B from the Provision Fund since December 2019. Im also aware that 
the time taken for Mr Bs withdrawal from the platform has been considered by this service 
under a different complaint. Mr B has also confirmed in an email to this service on 16 April 
2021 that he no longer wishes to complain about the unencrypted email received. Therefore, I need to consider what would have happened had RateSetter not made errors with the 
February 2020 statement. I must also decide this without the benefit of hindsight of what 
happened shortly afterwards - the impact of the onset Covid-19 pandemic and resulting 
withdrawal delays. 
Mr B says that the amount paid to him by the Provision Fund was key factor in him 
determining the risk of his investment. Whereas RateSetter says the level of payments from 
the Provision Fund to Mr B did not directly link to the risk of his investment. Rather, it says 
that the Interest Coverage Ratio and Capital Coverage Ratio of the Provision Fund are the 
key risk indicators of his investment.
The Investor Terms explained that:
If a payment becomes due under the terms of any of your loans and is not paid by 
the borrower, the Provision Fund will automatically make payment to you on the 
borrowers behalf, provided that a Stabilisation Period has not been implemented. If 
this happens, you agree that any right you had against the borrower in respect of that 
payment will be transferred to the Provision Fund. The Provision Fund may then seek 
to recover the payment from the borrower for its own account.
You can find more details about the Provision Fund, including the coverage ratios, on 
our website. We also include this in our monthly investor statements.
The Provision Fund policy on RateSetters explained:
The Provision Fund exists to protect RateSetter investors. It protects all investors 
equally and so has the effect of mutualising the risk for all investors by diversifying 
their exposure across the whole loan portfolio. This means that it is the performance 
of the whole loan portfolio that matters for RateSetter investors.
Therefore, its clear that the Provision Fund was a vital mechanism in ensuring mutualisation 
of risk across the loan portfolio and that Mr B ought to have been reasonably aware that his 
level of risk was aligned to that of the whole loan portfolio. Ive not seen anything which 
persuades me that the level of payments Mr B received from the Provision Fund had a 
substantial bearing on his risk level. The main indicator of his exposure to risk was rather the 
adequacy of the Provision Fund to be able to meet the level of borrower default. 
RateSetter has explained that the adequacy of the Provision Fund was expressed by the 
Interest Coverage Ratio - calculated by dividing the size of the Provision Fund by the 
Expected Future Losses (the total amount of missed and unrecovered borrower 
repayments expected over the lifetime of active loans). RateSetter also published a Capital 
Coverage Ratio - calculated by adding the size of the Provision Fund and all the future 
interest from active loans and then dividing by the Expected Future Losses.
The Provision Fund Policy on RateSetters website explained:
Future economic uncertainty is currently not factored into the Expected Future Loss 
calculation but this is taken into account by managing the Interest Coverage Ratio to 
a figure greater than 100%.
So as long as the Interest Coverage Ratio was maintained above 100%, Mr B ought to have 
been that any borrower defaults on his loans would be covered  essentially mitigating any 
risk on his investment. 
Looking at Mr Bs February statement, I note that, whilst it may have provided incorrect information regarding the Provision Fund payments he had received since December 2019, 
RateSetter did make him aware that the Interest Coverage Ratio was at 117% (Capital 
Coverage Ratio was 257%). As such, I think even if he had been given the correct figure as 
to the level of payments hed received from the Provision Fund, he would have still been 
aware that his investment was currently fully protected and Im not persuaded he would have 
requested to withdraw at this point. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr B says he relied on the level of payments to him from the Provision 
Fund had a significant weighting on his decision to remain invested, I have to consider that 
RateSetter had only started providing him with this information in March 2020 and hed been 
able to determine whether to continue to invest on the platform prior to this in the absence of 
this information. I understand that prior to March 2020, RateSetter had published its data on 
the adequacy of the Provision Fund on its website and so I think it was more likely than not 
that it was this information, coupled with the rate of return he was receiving which 
determined whether he continued to invest on the platform. 
Mr B has explained in his submissions to this service that it was the World Health 
Organisations announcement of the Covid-19 pandemic which impacted his decision to 
withdraw. This is supported by the fact that he requested to withdraw on 16 March 2020, five 
days following the announcement. So Im satisfied it was other factors outside of the errors 
in the February 2020 statement that seems to be the main driver for his withdrawal request.
So on balance, Im persuaded it was his concerns regarding the onset Covid-19 pandemic 
that made him request to withdraw and that the incorrect information provided around level 
of payments hed received from the Provision Fund wouldnt have had an bearing on his 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman