DRN-4133064
The complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his account without notice and then 
unreasonably delayed sending funds to an alternative account in line with his request.  
What happened
Mr W opened his Monzo account in November 2019. On 25 February 2022 Monzo sent Mr 
W notice by email that it was closing his account with immediate notice. It sent him a link 
through its app so that he could provide details of an alternative account to which the funds 
held to the credit of the account could be sent. Mr W completed that link the same day. 
Monzo explained that it could take 2-4 weeks for funds to be sent. 
Mr W contacted Monzo on several occasions over the following weeks to try to find out what 
was happening to his funds. He did so by email and by telephone, but was given very little 
information. 
The account was closed on 11 March 2022, and Mr Ws funds were transferred on 25 March 
2022. When Mr W tried to speak with Monzo after 4 weeks, he was told that he had not 
passed security and so could not continue with the call. By that time he was unable to 
access information about the account and so could not answer some of the security 
questions asked. 
Mr W complained about what had happened. He pointed out that he had been left without 
funds for over a month and had therefore struggled to pay bills, to provide food for his young 
family, and to travel to work. He had taken out a payday loan to cover some expenses. He 
thought that Monzo should reimburse the costs of doing so, as well as compensating him for 
the distress he had suffered. 
Monzo said that it had acted correctly; it had been within its rights to close the account, and 
funds had been released to Mr W in line with the timescales given. It did acknowledge 
however that it could have communicated better than it did. In particular, it should have 
accepted Mr Ws answers to security questions when he called. It offered him £60 in 
recognition of that. Mr W did not accept that offer and asked this service to review the case. 
One of our investigators did that and issued an assessment, in which he broadly agreed with 
Monzo. He said that it had acted fairly in closing the account; the compensation offered for 
customer service issues was reasonable in the circumstances.        
Mr W did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator did, and 
for similar reasons. 
It is generally for a bank to decide, as a matter of its commercial discretion, whether it 
wishes to provide or continue to provide banking services to any customer. As long as that 
discretion is exercised legitimately, this service wont usually interfere. I see no reason to do 
so in this case. 
A bank should however provide reasonable notice before closing a customers account. 
What is reasonable depends on the circumstances in each case  including the account 
terms and any relevant legal and regulatory obligations. The account terms in this case did 
allow immediate account closure in certain circumstances. Having considered the matter 
very carefully, I think that Monzo was within its rights to close Mr Ws account in the way it 
did.
I have therefore gone on to consider the time it took to send Mr Ws funds to his alternative 
account. I can understand why he found it frustrating that it took as long as it did to complete 
the transfer, but it was made in line with the timeframe which Monzo had provided. I accept 
too that Mr W incurred additional costs as a result  including interest on the pay day loan 
and credit cards. However, because I have found that Monzo was within its rights to close 
the account and that there wasnt any unreasonable delay, I cannot properly require Monzo 
to compensate Mr W for that.    
I do however note that Monzo accepted that it did not handle its communication with Mr W 
as well as it should have done. It accepts that the security questions it asked him were 
answered correctly, and that he should therefore have been able to discuss his account 
further when he tried to do so. Indeed, he had given the same answers to the same security 
questions about two weeks before his unsuccessful calls. Given the funds were transferred 
very soon after the unsuccessful calls, Mr W may have been given some reassurance if his 
answers had been accepted. 
Be that as it may, I think that Monzos offer of £60 in recognition of that was reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Mr W did not accept Monzos offer of £60 compensation. Strictly speaking, therefore, it is no 
longer open to him to do so. Because, however, I think that Monzo should have handled his 
queries better than it did and that its failure to do so warrants a modest compensation 
payment, I will make a formal award in line with the previous offer. That will enable to Mr W 
to accept the offer if, on reflection, he decides he wants to do so. It will also enable him to 
enforce my award, should that be necessary.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve his complaint in full, Monzo Bank Ltd 
should pay Mr W £60. Payment should be made within 30 days of Mr Ws acceptance of my 
decision. If it is not, Monzo should add interest at 8% simple from the date of acceptance to 
the date of payment.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Mike IngramOmbudsman