DRN-2526210
The complaint
Mr C complains that Experian Limited indicated to him that an application for a credit card 
would be pre-approved. His application was later declined. He wants any adverse data 
arising from the application to be removed from his credit file.
What happened
Mr C tells us that Experian informed him that he was highly likely to be approved for a credit 
card with a business Ill refer to as S. He explains that the information appeared in the pre-
approved section of its (Experian) website. He says that he made the application but it was 
refused. Mr C feels that Experian would have known of the lending criteria used by S. And 
as Experian also held all his personal and financial data, he believes there must have been 
an error in either the recommendation or the lending decision. He fears his credit record will 
now be adversely affected.
Experian told us that it had never guaranteed that the application would be successful. And 
that it was S which had made the decision to decline Mr Cs application, not Experian. It said 
that it did not record if an application had been successful or not. Only that S had made a 
search  which was a purely factual matter.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Experian couldnt be held responsible for a decision of a third party lender which had refused 
the application. And she felt that Experian hadnt made any promise that Mr Cs application 
would be successful.
Mr C didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C would be upset and disappointed at being refused credit when he 
had a reasonable expectation that his application would be granted.
Ive read various items of correspondence between Mr C and Experian. And in his original 
letter of complaint he referred to his application having been pre-approved with an 80% 
likelihood of being accepted.
Its fair to say that there appears to be a degree of ambiguity in that the term pre- approved 
might imply a favourable decision was a formality. Whilst reference to 80% would infer a high 
degree of likelihood  but short of complete certainty.
Where information is unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Having seen the terms in which he expressed his complaint, Im satisfied that Mr C knew 
that there was some risk that his application would be refused. But I think that he assumed 
the chances of this happening were minimal. He knew he had a highly impressive credit 
rating; a secure financial situation; and excellent credit utilisation. In short, there were no 
obvious reasons for the application to fail. I empathise with his surprise that his application 
was refused. 
Having said that, I dont think Experian has done anything wrong. It brought to Mr Cs 
attention details of a product which it thought might suit his needs. It provided what seems to 
be a reasonable guide to the probability of acceptance. But probability falls short of certainty. 
And in this instance Mr C found that the actuality was less favourable than he anticipated.
Ive seen no information to show that Experian would have details of the precise lending 
criteria of S or any of its other trading partners. Such matters are usually closely-held, 
commercially sensitive issues. At its highest it would know the most likely sources of 
information that would be used by S, including the information that Experian itself held.
Experian isnt the party which made the decision to decline Mr Cs application. And I cant 
hold it responsible for the actions of a third party. Mr C surmised that an error might also 
have been made by S. Im unable to say if that is so. Its something that Mr C would need to 
take up directly with the business concerned. Most lending decisions nowadays are 
automated  so its always possible than an inputting error might occur. Its also true that as 
each business has its own criteria even a seemingly minor factor might affect the final 
decision.
My understanding from dealing with many complaints involving similar issues is that the 
credit check carried out by S is not directly recorded in terms of success or failure. And that it 
will appear on Experian records as simply a reference to S carrying out a check. As that is 
factually correct its not something that I can ask Experian to remove.
In summary, whilst I fully accept Mr Cs concern at the disappointment he experienced, I 
dont find that Experian is at fault. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman