DRN-1641443
The complaint
Mr D and Miss H have complained about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) handled their claim following an escape of water at their home. 
Mr D has brought the complaint on behalf of both parties on the policy and so for ease I will 
refer to Mr D throughout. 
All references to LV also include their agents.
What happened
Below is a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full timeline or list 
every point that has been made. 
Mr D made a claim on his policy in January 2019 following damage to his property as a 
result of an escape of water at his home which LV accepted.
Initial investigations were carried out by LV to inspect the property and locate where the 
water was coming from. It took some time for the source of the leak to be located but it 
transpired that the cause of the leak was a defective stopcock. 
Mr D says there was a period of time between April and June where the claim did not 
progress and he did not hear from LV at all. Mr D says he felt that he had to push the claim 
along all the time and LV were not proactive in moving things along or contacting him to 
check how the claim was progressing. 
As a result of the water damage LV arranged for dryers to be installed at the property to dry 
it out. Mr D has said that the dryers were intrusive and loud, and he felt that they were 
unsafe. Especially given that he has a young family. 
LV sent their contractors to scope the work required to repair the damage caused by the 
leak. Mr D initially accepted the work quoted and then later declined. Mr D obtained a quote 
from his own contractors which was significantly more than the one obtained by LV. In 
addition LVs contractor said that they could not guarantee the work unless Mr D had a 
damp-proof course to the property. Mr D was not happy with this and wanted to use his own 
contractor. 
LV offered Mr D a cash settlement so that he could use his own contractor but said that they 
would only pay up to their own quote. Mr D was not happy with this and was concerned 
about the finish and materials to be used by LVs contractor. 
In July 2019 Mr D complained to LV about the way his claim had been handled and the level 
of disruption to his and his familys life and home. LV responded to say it accepted that its 
service had fallen short in some areas, in particular that it had taken their agent three visits 
to establish where the water was escaping from, and that there had been delay in 
progressing the claim between April and June. LV offered and paid Mr D £250 as an apology 
for the delays experienced by Mr D.  
Mr D was not happy with the response received from LV and so referred the complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into things for him. Our investigator found that whilst she 
was aware of the frustration with the way the claim progressed, she thought LV had 
generally dealt with the claim fairly. She also felt that the offer of compensation was enough 
to cover the areas where its service failed.  Mr D did not accept our investigators opinion 
and so this complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no doubt that this was, and is, a very frustrating experience for Mr D. And I have no 
doubt that he and his family were very much inconvenienced by the installation of the dryers, 
and the length of time it is taking for the repairs to be carried out. 
I have considered the aspects of the complaint and have listed them separately for ease of 
reference. 
Delays and general handling of claim
I can see that it took three visits from LVs agent to establish the cause of the leak. Whilst 
this is not ideal I have seen the leak detection reports and I am satisfied that LV were taking 
steps to establish the cause of the leak. It is unfortunate that the cause of the leak was not 
found on the first visit but in escape of water claims its not uncommon for it to take some 
time to locate the cause of the leak. 
It is also clear that there was no real progression of the claim from April until June. I can see 
that the dryers were installed at the end of May. But given that the leak was reported in 
January I think that the dryers could have been installed earlier to begin the repair process. I 
can see that from January to February attempts were being made to find the location of the 
leak. Nevertheless I note that LV offered Mr D a cash settlement in March 2019 and this was 
accepted in April 2019. However following acceptance Mr D changed his mind and said that 
the offer was not enough. 
LV have said that they instructed local agents to deal with the repairs to Mr Ds property. 
This is not uncommon in claims such as these and I dont find that there was anything wrong 
with LV following this route in the circumstances.
LV have acknowledged that there were delays in dealing with the claim and made an offer of 
compensation by way of an apology for the shortcoming in service. I think this is reasonable. 
Although the distress caused by the leak wasnt the fault of LV; Im satisfied that the situation 
wasnt helped the claim not being progressed as quickly as it could have been initially. For 
example from 17 April to the end of May when the dryers were installed. I accept that this 
would have caused Mr D and Miss H unnecessary inconvenience and worry. 
Safety issues concerning the dryers
Mr D has said that he was told he would require dryers but only became aware of how 
intrusive and loud they would be once they were installed. Mr D says that he was concerned 
that the dryers were a health and safety risk due to their size, position in the house, and the 
plastic sheeting used to cordon off the parts of the house. But Im satisfied that in order to 
repair the damaged area the dryers were a necessity. LV have provided me with the risk 
assessment undertaken at every visit. It explained that the risk assessment is to identify and minimise any risk onsite to the technician and policyholder during the work. I am satisfied 
that whilst the dryers were not ideal for Mr D and his family I can see that LV took health and 
safety into consideration at the time of installation.
The dryers were installed at the end of May and were removed on 21 June 2019. I 
appreciate that they caused inconvenience to Mr D and his family since they had to navigate 
around them whilst going up and down the stairs. I have also looked at what LV were aware 
of and at the time that the dryers were installed they were not aware that Mr D had any 
concerns so I am unable to say that they should have done something more here.
Settlement of claim 
There is a difference between the repair quote obtained from the insurer and the quote 
provided by Mr Ds own contractor. This appears to be due to the fact that Mr Ds contractor 
has quoted for some work that may become necessary as the repair is carried out, such as 
plastering around the door frames and the painting of the plaster work. 
I have checked what the policy terms and conditions say about settling claims. The policy 
says as follows if the loss or damage is covered by this insurance we will agree with you 
whether to arrange for a repair or replacement using one of our suppliers, or pay the cost of 
repair, or make a cash payment 
Mr D had concerns with the insurers contractor in that he was not confident in their 
workmanship or the materials that they would use to carry out the repairs. And so a cash 
settlement was considered. 
In respect of a cash settlement the policy says if we can offer a repair or replacement 
through one of our suppliers and you choose not to have the item repaired or replaced, well 
not pay more than the amount we would have paid our supplier 
LVs supplier has confirmed it is well within their capabilities to complete the repairs to be 
undertaken to a high standard. They have also confirmed that the quote is based on like for 
like materials. Therefore I think its reasonable for LV to offer the amount quoted for by its 
own supplier and within the terms of their policy.
Alternative accommodation 
Mr Ds policy states that if your home becomes uninhabitable following loss or damagewe 
will pay up to £25,000 during the period of insurance for the extra cost of similar alternative 
accommodation for you, your family 
The policy doesnt give a definition of what LV considers uninhabitable however we would 
generally consider a property uninhabitable if there are no kitchen, bathroom or toilet 
facilities. I can see that the damage involved the downstairs toilet area and the property still 
had a working kitchen, bathroom and upstairs toilet. 
LV explained that it did not offer alternative accommodation since this would only be offered 
if Mr D was left without any essential services. Whilst I appreciate the inconvenience to Mr D 
and his family in having to live with the dryers for a period of three weeks I think it was 
reasonable for LV not to offer the alternative accommodation since the family still had 
access to kitchen and bathroom facilities.  
Compensation offered Im satisfied that compensation is due for the issues Mr D and Miss H experienced. There 
were unnecessary delays that added to an already difficult situation. I find that the sum of   
£250 is fair and reasonable compensation to reflect the distress that the delays and failure in 
service have caused here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has already paid Mr 
D fair compensation of £250. I do not require them to take any further steps to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman