DRN-2296754
The complaint
Mr Js complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) declined a claim he made 
under his motorcycle insurance policy, on the basis that Mr J hadnt given them accurate 
information about previous claims. And because MCE thought hed deliberately or recklessly 
misrepresented the position, theyd voided Mr Js policy.
What happened
In 2019, Mr J used a comparison website to find motorcycle insurance. Through this, he 
found the policy with MCE. He was then transferred to MCEs website to buy it. Mr J then 
had an accident. He contacted MCE to make a claim under his motorcycle insurance policy.
MCE investigated the claim. After about seven weeks, they contacted Mr J to say that they 
wouldnt be covering the claim. And theyd be voiding his policy, because Mr J had told them 
when he bought it that hed not been involved in any accidents claims or losses in the 
previous five years. In fact, Mr J had made a claim for theft in 2014. And hed been involved 
in an accident in 2016.
Mr J complained to MCE about their decision. And he raised two other issues; firstly, that 
MCEs engineer had decided his bike was a write off and, secondly, that MCE had collected 
a premium instalment after theyd voided the policy.
MCE considered Mr Js complaint. They said theyd voided the policy because hed not 
declared either the theft or the previous accident. And they said that their engineer had 
inspected the bike and classified it as Category B Total Loss  meaning it could not be 
repaired, but parts could be salvaged. MCE said vehicles in this category shouldnt be put 
back on the road.
But MCE did say that they couldve voided the policy sooner  and before Mr J paid a 
premium instalment. They refunded the instalment and paid Mr J £100 for the inconvenience 
this had caused him.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with MCEs response. So he brought his complaint about voiding the 
policy to us. He didnt ask us to consider the other matters hed raised with MCE.
He told us that hed not declared his previous claims because theyd related to cars, not a 
motorbike. And MCEs website had only asked him for his riding record  and hed not 
made any claims relating to his bike. He also said hed never accepted liability for the 
accident hed been involved in and was waiting for the case to go to court. It was only when 
MCE declined this claim that he found out that case had been settled.
Our investigator considered the matter. He came to the view that Mr J had misrepresented 
his history to MCE. But hed done that carelessly, rather than recklessly or deliberately. So 
he said MCE shouldnt have voided the policy  but they were entitled to only pay out a 
proportion of what they would have paid in respect of Mr Js claim, because Mr Js 
declaration had reduced the premium to about a third of what MCE would have charged him.
I didnt agree with the investigators view. So I made a provisional decision.  I thought it was 
reasonable for MCE to decide Mr Js misrepresentation about the accident had been 
reckless or deliberate  so theyd been entitled to void his policy. 
I said this because the accident had happened in 2016  well within the five years MCE had 
asked questions about.  And Mr J had explained that hed thought about whether he should 
disclose the accident  which satisfied me that hed considered how to answer the questions 
and hadnt answered them carelessly.
MCE acknowledged my provisional decision and said they had nothing to add.  Mr J asked 
how MCE could void his policy, but still decide that his bike should be written off.  And he 
was unhappy that MCE had voided his policy, because he said that hed found out that 
theyd have insured him if hed declared the accident  but theyd have charged him a higher 
premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr Js asked how MCE could write off his bike.  He raised this with MCE, but not with our 
service.  MCE told him that the categorisation of his bike meant it shouldnt be put back on 
the road.  As Ive said above, they have a duty to stop vehicles they believe to be unsafe 
from being used on the road. 
Mr Js said that the bike was written off on an economic basis, rather than because it was 
unsafe.  And hes said that a different inspection has said it shouldnt have been categorised 
as it was.
Mr Js not sent us any report from the second inspection.  Nor has he said hes sent anything 
to MCE.  Hell need to do that if he wants to challenge MCEs categorisation of his bike  so 
MCE can consider if theyve made a mistake.  Our service cant look at this unless Mr J does 
that first  and follows MCEs complaints process if hes not satisfied with how they deal with 
it.  So Im not going to look at that here.
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought it was reasonable for MCE to have 
decided Mr Js misrepresentation was reckless/deliberate.  Neither MCE nor Mr J have 
challenged that part of my decision.
But Mr J has questioned why MCE voided his policy.  He says that, if hed declared the 
accident, MCE would have sold him a policy  but at a higher premium.  
Ive thought about this.  Mr J has based what hes said on the fact he got a later quote, in 
which he included the accident.  The quote sent in by Mr J is more than double the premium 
he paid.  And MCE have sent us evidence which shows that, if theyd known about the 
accident and the theft, Mr Js premium wouldve been almost three times as much.
The impact of misrepresentation on insurance contracts is set out in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  commonly known as CIDRA.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation.  For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, or not at all.Im satisfied in this case it was reasonable for MCE to have decided a qualifying 
misrepresentation was made. Theyve shown that theyd only have offered Mr J a policy on 
different terms  the payment of a much higher premium.  And  as Ive said above  it was 
also reasonable for MCE to decide Mr Js misrepresentation was reckless/deliberate. 
CIDRA says:
If a qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, the insurer
(a) may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, and
(b)  need not return any of the premiums paid, except to the extent (if any) that it would 
be unfair to the consumer to retain them.
Theres no requirement that an insurer should offer the policy on the terms they wouldve 
done had the misrepresentation hadnt been made.  MCE have done what CIDRA allows 
them to.  So I dont think they need to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint about MCE Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman