DRN-1395813
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about a delay in releasing money from his savings with Al Rayan Bank PLC. 
What happened
Mr B said Al Rayan delayed in releasing to him a very large sum of money. His 120 day 
Notice account matured on 2 July 2019. He was expecting the money to be transferred to 
another account at a different bank, on the same day. He told us Al Rayan had confirmed it 
would transfer the money that day. 
Mr B rang Al Rayan at lunchtime on 2 July, and was told the money would be released by 
the end of the day. It wasnt, and he rang again then. He was then told the money wouldnt 
be available until the next day. Mr B said hed already committed this money. The money 
was eventually released to him the next day.
Al Rayan said Mr Bs money was released at 12.08 on 3 July. It was sorry for the delay. Al 
Rayan said it couldnt guarantee the same day delivery of a payment. The payment was sent 
through the Faster Payment Service, and the relevant regulations said it had to arrive by the 
end of the following business day. So Al Rayan didnt think it had actually caused a delay. 
But it didnt think it had managed Mr Bs expectations around this properly. So it said it would 
pay him £50 in compensation, and pay him 8% interest on his money for the one day that he 
didnt have his money. 
Mr B said if a bank failed to deliver this money to another bank, the penalties would be much 
more severe. He thought that individual retail customers should be treated equally. He said 
this had mainly cost him in his time, which was valuable. Hed accept compensation of £250 
for the time involved and £250 for the breach of contract. 
Al Rayan said Mr Bs money was delayed because it needed to make extra checks on the 
payment. It sent us internal system screenshots showing additional checks were made.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the terms of Mr Bs 
account said sometimes additional checks would be made, which could cause delays. Our 
investigator thought it was reasonable for extra checks to be done. He thought Al Rayan 
couldve managed Mr Bs expectations more effectively. But he said the payment Al Rayan 
had made was enough to make up for its mistake, so he wouldnt ask it to do any more.
Mr B still thought Al Rayan had breached the contract it made with him, to deliver funds on 2 
July through the Faster Payments System. And he said that when he was treated differently 
to a bank or financial organisation, that was a breach of the Payment Services Directive 
(PSD). Mr B said Al Rayan had agreed to make the payment on 2 July through the Faster 
Payments System, which meant the payment would be received on 2 July. He said the 
excuse of extra checks being made wasnt just disingenuous but reflected negligence. And 
he said there was no mention, when Al Rayan told him when it would release his money, of 
any possible delay, or any reference to a general term allowing for delays. Mr B then wrote again, to say he wanted us to ask how many other times this had happened. 
And he said with a notice account, there was plenty of time for the bank to complete all 
necessary checks well before the contractual payment date. 
Mr Bs case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Al Rayan has shown our service that it did further checks on the payment to Mr B, as part of 
checks it did that day on a number of payments of varying sizes. I think this was the cause of 
the one day delay in paying Mr Bs money. 
Mr B wanted our service to check how often this happened to other people. But were not a 
regulator, and were not in charge of checking the overall service standards provided by Al 
Rayan. Im just looking at Mr Bs case.
Mr B argued that, by delaying, Al Rayan broke a contract with him. This argument rests on 
the assumption that Al Rayan entered into a new contract with Mr B when it sent him 
confirmation that his money would be released at the end of a 120 day notice period. Mr B 
says the letter confirming this payment told him the money would be released on 2 July, so 
thats when Al Rayan had to pay the money, and when he expected to receive it. He said 
that contract hadnt mentioned any possible delays.
But I dont think thats quite right. Mr B already had an existing contract with Al Rayan, which 
was subject to a number of terms and conditions. Our investigator pointed to one of those, 
which says sometimes payments to be made from your account may be subject to a delay 
for procedural checks. 
I think that anything that Al Rayan said about the release of Mr Bs funds, due on 2 July, was 
subject to all the pre-existing terms and conditions of his account. That includes the one 
mentioning possible delays. So I dont agree that Al Rayan breached his contract because it 
didnt pay Mr B until 3 July. Its shown that it was doing something provided for in his terms 
and conditions  carrying out procedural checks. 
Mr B refers to what happened as being a breach of the PSD. The PSD was brought into 
effect in UK legislation through the Payment Service Regulations (the PSRs). The 
regulations that cover the payment here are those from 2017. So Ive thought about whether 
Al Rayan has met the requirements of the PSRs 2017.
And I think, on balance, the bank has. In summary, the PSRs require payments to be made 
on specified dates. But they also allow for payments to be delayed, provided the bank tells 
the payment service user (in this case Mr B) what is happening. And the PSRs have to be 
considered alongside the existing contract Mr B had with Al Rayan under the terms and 
conditions of the account, which did tell him that payments can be delayed. Our service has 
to look at all the circumstances of a complaint. 
I think that Mr B has been treated as the terms of his account provide. I know that Mr B has 
argued that he has a right not to be treated differently to a bank or financial organisation. But 
my role here is to consider whats fair and reasonable. And I dont think that Al Rayan has 
been unfair or unreasonable by delaying payment of Mr Bs money for one day, in order to 
carry out further checks. Particularly as this is provided for in the terms of his account.I wouldnt expect a transaction between banks to be governed by the same terms and 
conditions that cover Mr Bs account. And I dont think I could fairly compare the situation of 
Mr B with that of a bank or other financial organisation. So if Mr B has been treated 
differently than a bank would be treated, I dont think that would mean that hed been treated 
unfairly or unreasonably.
I also note that banks are payment service providers under the PSRs, not payment service 
users. Mr B is a payment service user  and thats the only capacity I can look at his 
complaint under.
I do though think that its unfortunate that Al Rayan wasnt able to tell Mr B more precisely 
when his money would be released. I think it gave him poor service when he enquired about 
this payment on 2 July and 3 July. I note that Al Rayan has recognised this, and apologised. 
And I think that the payment its made, of £50 compensation and lost profit paid at 8%, 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I know that Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman