DRN-2878486
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say the information and advice given by Chesterton House Financial Planning 
Ltd (CHFP) in respect of the recommended transfer of their defined benefit (DB) and 
Scottish Widows pension plans was insufficient to be able to make informed decisions.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C decided in 2019 it was time to review their pension arrangements.
Following a meeting with Pension Wise, Mr and Mrs C conducted a search of the market for 
a financial adviser. They made initial enquiries to 10 firms, asking set questions to help them 
understand more about each business and their offer. They decided to appoint CHFP as 
their adviser in November 2019.
During December 2019 CHFP gathered information about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances, 
objectives and matters such as their attitude to risk.
CHFPs recommendations were delivered in two stages in March and April 2020. This was to 
accommodate the transfer deadline for one of Mr Cs DB schemes where the cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) was nearing expiry. 
Essentially, CHFP advised Mr and Mrs C to transfer all four of their pensions, establishing a 
personal pension for each with Transact. It also recommended that they invest the fund in a 
portfolio of medium risk assets, in keeping with their assessed attitude to risk.
Unfortunately, the relationship between Mr and Mrs C and CHFP deteriorated. The transfer 
of Mr Cs two DB pots proceeded. But they didnt switch their Scottish Widows personal 
pensions. Mr and Mrs C ended their relationship with CHFP at the end of May 2020. They 
withheld part of the fees due. And they raised a complaint.
Mr and Mrs C raised several concerns about CHFPs service. They said it had failed to:
- Act honestly, fairly and professionally.
- Provide appropriate information in good time before starting its services. Or to 
provide clear and non-misleading information.
- Set out the charges they would incur in a clear and timely manner. 
- Show it proceeded in their best interest and were independent.
- Show that the transfer of Mr Cs DB funds was suitable for their requirements in a 
clear and timely manner.
Mr and Mrs C say they felt pressured to accept CHFPs advice, particularly with the transfer 
of the DB schemes.
CHFP rejected Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. It said it had provided comprehensive advice and 
had responded at length to their many questions in a timely manner. It said it hadnt put any 
time pressure on them to push through the recommendations made, and that any pressure 
to move things forward as quickly as possible had come from them. Overall it said it had 
conducted its services appropriately and that its recommendations had been suitable.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Cs case. He concluded:
Having carefully considered all the available evidence, the initial costs were fully disclosed 
to you. I also cant say Chesterton provided you with insufficient information to support their 
recommendations during the advice process. I appreciate you strongly feel there were 
delays, but as explained pensions advice is time-consuming, particularly where final salary 
transfers are involved.
Although you noted two conflicts of interest theres no evidence these affected the advice 
you received. Its my understanding youre happy with the fact your final salary schemes 
were transferred, and although Chesterton didnt implement the transfer of your Scottish 
Widows pensions, youve since switched these as well.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They reiterated their main areas of concern, including:
- A lack of guidance and information.
- Cost increases without adequate explanation.
- Conflicts of interests arising.
- The time pressure applied.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings, Mr and Mrs Cs complaint has 
been passed to me to review afresh and to issue a decision. This is the final stage of our 
involvement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr and Mrs Cs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by CHFP for Mr and Mrs C. The FCA Handbook contains 11 Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers.- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading.
- Principle 8  which requires a firm to manage conflicts of interest fairly, both 
between itself and its customers and between a customer and another client.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like CHFP. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
At the time of the advice CHFP gave Mr and Mrs C, COBS 19.1.6 made the following 
specific point about advising on a transfer from an OPS scheme:
(2) When a firm is making a personal recommendation for a retail client who is, or is eligible 
to be, a member of a pension scheme with safeguarded benefits and who is considering 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out will not be suitable.
(3) A firm should only consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the 
retail clients best interests.
To do this CHFP had to take into account a range of factors including Mr and Mrs Cs 
intentions for accessing their pension benefits; their attitude to and understanding of the 
risks of both giving up their safeguarded benefits and of making investments; their realistic 
income requirements in retirement; and alternative ways in which their objectives could be 
achieved without transferring from their OPS.
Under COBS 19.1.2B, CHFP was required to conduct an appropriate pension transfer 
analysis. It had to:
(1) Assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available under the ceding arrangement;
(2) Compare (1) with those benefits and options available under the proposed arrangement;
COBS 19.1.3A required CHFP to compare the transfer valued offered by Mr and Mrs Cs 
OPS with the estimated value needed at the time of the advice to purchase the future 
income benefits available under their existing scheme using a pension annuity. It had to 
inform them of such.
COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client, in relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail 
client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging (bringing 
about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
Did CHFP meet the regulatory obligations placed on it in its dealings with Mr and Mrs C?
There were several weaknesses in CHFPs approach. But on balance the issues Ive found 
are not sufficient for me to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.There are several documents relating to CHFPs transaction with Mr and Mrs C that are 
important to my consideration, these include a fact-find, transfer analysis reports, a financial 
plan, two retirement planning reports (suitability reports) and an investment plan. Ive had 
access to recordings of discussions between the parties, including of the key meetings. Ive 
also thought carefully about the testimony of both parties. 
The regulatory position sets a high bar, which CHFP must be able to clearly demonstrate 
was met, on contemporaneous evidence, that the transfer from Mr Cs DB schemes was in 
his best interests. There are several facets to weighing this matter.
Mr and Mrs C were directors of their own business. The operating environment for them had 
become more challenging. And Mr C was considering going part-time. At the time they took 
annual salaries of around £12,500 each, plus bonuses. A detailed analysis of household 
expenditure, covering essential and discretionary spending showed outgoings of about 
£29,000 for a year. They didnt have any debts. And they had around £4,000 as an 
emergency fund.
Mr and Mrs C owned their home which was worth around £300,000. There was no 
outstanding mortgage. Its recorded they were in reasonable health. They had joint-life cover 
for about £53,000. They had two non-dependent sons.
At the time of the advice Mr C was 64, he was due a state pension from January 2022 worth 
around £8,800 per annum. Mrs C was 63, her state pension was payable from September 
2023 and worth about £8,600 a year.
Mr and Mrs C had four pensions between them. Mr C was a member of two defined benefit 
(DB) schemes through former employers. His main scheme had a CETV of around 
£301,000. And his smaller plan was worth around £165,000. Both Mr and Mrs C had 
personal pension plans with Scottish Widows, which their business had made contributions 
to. These were worth around £83,000 and £81,000 respectively.
Mr and Mrs Cs objectives were recorded in the following terms:
- Control their pension funds to maximise the potential for capital growth, within their 
assessed attitude to risk. 
- Access income flexibility to complement where they were heading with their 
business. 
- Access tax-free cash (TFC) flexibly when it suited their plans, for example in relation 
to their home, holidays and other major plan purchases such as a car.
- Leave any pension savings which they didnt use to their family as part of a legacy.
It was CHFPs role to discern what Mr and Mrs Cs wants and needs were and why. Its role 
wasnt simply to facilitate what it thought they wanted without any critical thinking. It had to 
use due care and skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in their best interests. 
Having reviewed the evidence, I think CHFP met its obligations here. I think their objectives 
were reasonable, reflecting their particular circumstances and priorities.
Mr and Mrs C wanted the ability to be able to continue making pension contributions through 
their company until theyd fully retired. As Mr C was expecting to go part-time he wanted the 
ability to draw some money from his pension pot to supplement their income. They wanted 
to maintain their current income in retirement in real terms. They also wanted the ability to 
draw TFC when they wanted it. They wanted to take their pension benefits in the most tax-efficient way possible. They also wanted to consolidate their retirement provision to help 
them manage things.
CHFPs recommended solution was for Mr C to transfer his DB funds and for him and his 
wife to switch their Scottish Widows plans. A Transact personal pension was to be 
established for each of them to hold the proceeds. Their funds were to be invested in line 
with the assessed attitude to risk.
Turning to the financial case for this transaction. CHFP was required to inform Mr C about 
the comparison between the CETV that hed been offered by his DB scheme with an 
indication of what it could cost to replace those benefits. It commissioned two transfer 
analysis reports for this purpose.
The transfer analysis report for Mr Cs main DB scheme found that if he were to try to 
purchase the same benefits from an insurer it would cost him around £400,000. This put into 
context the CETV hed been offered of around £301,000. Similarly, to purchase the same 
benefits from an insurer as available from his smaller scheme would cost him about 
£254,000. Hed been offered a CETV for this pension of about £165,000.
But I think more telling given Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances and objectives, the reports also 
provided cashflow modelling. This illustrated the growth rates required from his pension 
funds if he were to draw down the same level of benefits hed have received from his DB 
scheme providers. The analysis allowed for matters such as the effect of ongoing charges 
(adviser, platform and fund management) and the need to increase pension income to take 
into account cost of living increases.
The main timeframes focused on were Mr Cs life-expectancy of 85 and his wifes life 
expectancy of 87. Understanding that there was a possibility that either or both could live 
longer than this, modelling was conducted up to the age of 105.
For Mr Cs main DB scheme, the transfer analysis showed a gross annual return of -0.6% 
was needed to meet his requirements until he was 85. To be able to draw pension benefits 
on the same basis until the age of 105 would require a gross annual return of 5.4%.
For Mr Cs smaller DB scheme, the transfer analysis showed a gross annual return of -0.3% 
was needed to meet his requirements until he was 85. To be able to draw pension benefits 
on the same basis until the age of 105 would require a gross annual return of 5.5%.
The transfer analysis reports were sent to Mr C so he could review the findings. These were 
detailed and complicated. But he had an opportunity to discuss the findings with CHFP. It 
also summarised key findings in the two suitability reports it produced for him. I think these 
were reasonably clear.
While the financial case for transfer of Mr Cs DB funds appears viable, its important to 
understand what the realistic prospects were for investment returns for the next 20 years 
plus. Here matters such as Mr and Mrs Cs attitude to risk and the investment strategy being 
recommended by CHFP are key considerations.
Mr and Mrs C undertook a risk appetite assessment exercise. 
Mr C was assessed as in group six of seven, higher than 94% of all other scores. This was 
summarised in the following terms:
Investors in risk group 6 think of risk as an opportunity and are prepared to take a medium 
to large degree of risk with their financial decisions, more likely large. Most have a great deal of confidence in their ability to make good financial decisions but some have only a 
reasonable amount. They usually feel somewhat or very optimistic about their major 
decisions after they make them. When faced with a major financial decision they are usually 
more concerned about possible gains.
Mrs C was assessed as in group four of seven, this was an average score This was 
summarised in the following terms:
Investors in risk group 4 think of risk as uncertainty and are prepared to take a medium 
degree of risk with their financial decision. They have a reasonable amount of confidence in 
their ability to make good financial decisions and usually feel somewhat optimistic about their 
decisions after they make them (although Mrs C felt pessimistic). When faced with a major 
financial decision some are usually more concerned about the potential losses while others 
are usually more concerned about the possible gains.
Ive listened to the conversations CHFP had with Mr and Mrs C about their risk appetite. I 
think the scores fit reasonably with what I heard about their outlook.
I think CHFP shouldve explored Mr and Mrs Cs experience of investments in a more 
structured manner. I recognise matters were touched on in discussions, for example Mr C 
mentioned his old investment trading account. And some matters were apparent, such as 
the different strategies followed in the fund selections for their respective Scottish Widows 
plans. But these matters shouldve been discussed and documented more fully.
I also think more testing and probing by CHFP of their risk appetite wouldve been 
appropriate. Mr C had arrived with well-formed views about what he and his wife should be 
doing, and it was incumbent on it that they were fully informed about the potential pitfalls and 
benefits. 
That said, I note the suitability reports did properly highlight the two key risks Mr and Mrs C 
would be taking if Mr C transferred his DB funds. Longevity risk (the potential for his funds to 
run out if he or his wife outlived their life-expectancy). And investment risk (the potential for 
fund growth to fall short of what was required to meet their plans).
Im also satisfied CHFP provided some challenge to Mr and Mrs C. For example, Mr C was 
willing to take on significant risk. But it explained to him important considerations such as 
their capacity for loss. In this regard, aside from their home, their four pensions were their 
main asset. And together with their state pensions, they were also their main source for 
income in retirement. 
CHFP recommended that their funds should be invested in a medium risk portfolio. I think 
this was a reasonable outcome given it was balancing their individual outlooks, the needs of 
the household and their capacity for loss. It also noted that they could take a lower moderate 
level of risk with their investments and still likely achieve financial viability for the pension 
transfers.
More generally, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C fully understood that by Mr C moving away 
from his DB schemes and using the funds to invest, he was moving from a situation where 
his former employers were bearing the risks related to the provision of his retirement income 
to one where they were taking on that risk.
CHFP provided Mr and Mrs C with an investment report. This set out how their funds should 
be invested in accordance with their risk appetite. I can see they were provided with a 
breakdown of the asset holdings and sectors held within the recommended medium risk portfolio. Investments were typically spread across five distinct sectors, and over 20 funds 
with no one asset accounting for more than 5.5% of the pot.
The investment recommendation appears to have provided for diversification and assets to 
be held in line with their assessed appetite for risk.
At the meeting on 2 April 2020, Mr and Mrs C questioned why the illustrations theyd been 
given over time had varied in terms of investment returns. They were worried about the 
changing benefits projected for transfer. 
CHFPs adviser explained the difference between historical returns achieved by the medium 
risk model portfolio they were recommending, the range of returns over different time 
horizons and what had been assumed in the cash-flow. Clarification was also provided about 
the difference between data used in the transfer analysis reports and CHFPs reports.
I note that CHFPs full recommendation on investment wasnt implemented. Funds from his 
DB schemes appear to have been placed in cash and / or a holding account. This was 
because Mr and Mrs C decided to remove CHFP as their financial adviser at the end of May 
2020.
A significant theme of the complaint that Mr and Mrs C have brought is about how they 
consider CHFP failed to meet their guidance and information needs and the potential impact 
this couldve had on their decision making. Theres some merit in the arguments they make.
While CHFP produced or facilitated several reports for Mr and Mrs C including transfer 
analysis reports, a financial plan, suitability reports and an investment plan, I think the 
approach taken by it was rather piecemeal and fragmented.
I can understand in part how this happened. Mr C had two DB funds being transferred. The 
CETV on his main scheme had an expiry date that was more pressing. This meant the first 
element of CHFPs advice was delivered in March 2020, focussing largely on this element of 
their provision. The bulk of the reports didnt follow until April 2020.
Having listened to conversations between Mr C and the adviser, at times he didnt fully grasp 
certain aspects of what was happening. I think CHFP shouldve read the situation better, it 
knew he wanted to understand the detail and how it all fitted together. 
CHFP shouldve taken time to go back to basics, explaining again what Mr and Mrs Cs main 
options were, the range of products available to them, the different ways in which pension 
benefits could be accessed at the required time, and so on. This shouldve included an 
exploration of the pros and cons and why it was recommending the approach it did.
Mr and Mrs C have said that at times they experienced a growing sense of non-urgency and 
delay, with no explanation from CHFP, especially when there was time pressure due to the 
expiration date of the two CETVs. Conversely, they also say they had a growing feeling of 
being pushed into accepting CHFPs recommendation without being provided with the 
information they needed to take the required decisions.
I understand why Mr and Mrs C felt under pressure. These were big decisions they were 
taking, which would impact on them for the rest of their lives. And had the CETVs expired, 
they wouldve had to have paid for new valuations. And the valuations themselves couldve 
changed. But as they were told in one conversation, this consideration shouldnt have driven 
their decision making.I think the pressures Mr and Mrs C experienced were an inevitable consequence of what 
they were engaged in. I note there were other parties involved in the process, including Mr 
Cs DB pension administrators and the pension transfer analysis specialist firm. Some of the 
dependencies for completion and quality of the work were beyond the control of CHFP.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I havent found CHFP dragged its feet at crucial 
moments. I think it tried to hasten other parties on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf when appropriate. 
Theres nothing to show that it placed Mr and Mrs C under pressure to execute the 
recommendations it had made. Nor more generally in its dealings with them. I can see it 
produced a lot of information for them and had discussions with them to answer the 
questions they had.
Another key concern raised by Mr and Mrs C is about the fees they were charged. They say 
that the initial fees quoted in October 2019 had been between £3,000 and £4,000. But later 
these had risen to over £7,000.
The initial conversation with CHFP that Mr and Mrs C refer to was prior to their engagement 
of an adviser firm. They were in the process of conducting due diligence of the market. I can 
see how they mayve formed the wrong impression of what the overall costs might be from 
this initial exchange. I think the adviser was trying to provide an indicative cost, but its 
difficult to cater for all eventualities in such a discussion. Im satisfied no detailed costing was 
provided nor price agreed.
I dont think CHFP intentionally set out to mislead Mr and Mrs C about the level of fees 
theyd be charged for initial advice. It was heavily dependent on what work they required 
doing. And actually the matter was made clear quickly after the initial conversation and prior 
to them taking on CHFPs services.
CHFPs costs were discussed during a meeting with Mr and Mrs C on 5 November 2019. Mr 
C followed this session up with an email on 14 November 2019 which asked what the costs 
were to be. In response CHFP replied on 15 November 2019 explaining the upfront costs to 
analyse Mr Cs two final salary schemes would be £1,400 in addition to £912 for two reports 
to completed by O&M Systems. 
CHFPs email went on to explain what amount would be chargeable if the advice was to 
transfer and this was accepted. It said:
If we did recommend that you transfer the two final salary pensions, we would need to 
create a full financial plan for you. This would cover all your financial arrangements 
(including the two other pensions) and the total of this would be in the region of £6,000.
Within the terms of business there is a section titled How we charge you for our services. 
This explains when and how any fees would be charged. I can see Mr C signed this 
document on 29 November 2019. The costs were explained again throughout the process.
The work required by a regulated firm to undertake advice on four pensions, including two 
final salary schemes is substantial. This included delivery of several bespoke reports and 
many hours of discussion and explanation. 
I think the initial costs were clearly explained to Mr and Mrs C in advance of the work being 
completed by CHFP and prior to the signing of its terms of business. The fees dont appear 
to be unusual. As such, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude it has acted unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs C have also raised a concern about potential conflicts of interest that CHFP 
failed to properly inform them of. The first became apparent when they were asked to complete their attitude to risk questionnaires by a separate firm. While this was an appointed 
representative (AR) of CHFP, it was also a business that Mr and Mrs C had approached in 
the past and hadnt been suited to. They noted there was also a director who was engaged 
by both entities.
I think CHFP shouldve made clear to Mr and Mrs C all of the partners that it worked with, 
and the nature of those relationships. Here it seems the other firm were providing 
administrative services. Although it didnt do this, Ive not seen any evidence that it had any 
dealings with the substance of the advice they received from CHFP.
The second conflict of interest highlighted by Mr and Mrs C relates to CHFPs dealings with 
Transact, the company it recommended they should use for their future pension 
arrangements. It seems the vast bulk of CHFPs clients end up using Transact. And that a 
number of its staff have shares in the business.
Mr C told the Investigator that the conflict of interest with Transact was only a problem 
because it hadnt been disclosed fully. I think theres merit in his argument. 
Although CHFP did explain the relationship in the investment report it produced for Mr and 
Mrs C on 2 April 2020, this is too late in the process. Not least because the Transact 
arrangements had already been established earlier to cater for the transfer of his first DB 
scheme funds.
CHFP has provided a copy of a due diligence report it commissioned in 2020. This covered 
the suitability of Transact as its preferred platform provider. I can see that it reviews this 
position every quarter at its investment committee. Alternative platforms are also discussed 
and reviewed on a regular basis and presentations received from other providers.
CHFP shouldve made Mr and Mrs C aware of its partners and interests more effectively, 
insofar as these were relevant to its dealings with them, and at an earlier stage in the 
process than it did. That said Ive not seen evidence of any detriment theyve suffered as a 
result of these failings.
Most of my consideration in this case has focussed on the transfer of Mr Cs DB pensions. 
There are a number of reasons for this. Firstly, these accounted for the bulk of the pension 
funds under review. It also accounted for the bulk of the work undertaken and cost arising.
Ive given some consideration to CHFPs recommendation with regard to Mr and Mrs Cs 
Scottish Widows pensions. Ive not seen any evidence that the proposed switch wouldve led 
to the loss of important protections, for example guaranteed annuity rates. Ive already 
covered the position on the investment risk theyd have taken on. And ongoing fund 
management wouldve been part of the service they originally signed up to.
A reservation I would have here be around the higher charges that Mr and Mrs C wouldve 
incurred as a result of switching out of their personal pension plans into the Transact 
arrangement. But, Im not reviewing that potential transaction in isolation. I need to be 
mindful of the whole package CHFP was working on for them. And on balance, and given 
their objectives, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to have made the recommendation.
In any event, as Ive already noted, there were elements of the advice that CHFP provided 
that werent implemented. This was because towards the end of May 2020 Mr and Mrs C 
removed CHFP as their financial adviser. And its recommendation for them to switch their 
Scottish Widows pensions into the Transact personal pension didnt happen while it was 
responsible for their arrangements.I understand CHFP reduced its fee by £500 to acknowledge the fact it didnt implement the 
switch of Mr and Mrs Cs Scottish Widows pensions. As the Investigator noted, its important 
to recognise that a significant element of a firms work is in the planning and preparation of 
advice, not just the implementation. And I think it treated Mr and Mrs C fairly here.
Ive found that there were failings with CHFPs approach in a number of areas. For example, 
I think some of the information it provided was piecemeal and fragmented. Elements were 
not in the depth Id have expected, given Mr and Mrs Cs stated requirements. And it 
shouldve ensured proper breathing space between key meetings such as that held on 2 
April and the signing of the pension transfer paperwork.
I dont think CHFP paid full attention to Mr and Mrs Cs information needs. It shouldve 
picked up on cues that showed Mr C was puzzled or frustrated at various points in the 
process. And then it shouldve tried to explain matters such as the timetable, how elements 
of the process fitted together and the options available to them until it was satisfied theyd 
understood.
I think CHFP shouldve explored Mr and Mrs Cs investment experience more fully. And it 
shouldve done more to have made clear any potential conflicts of interest at the outset.
If CHFP had done everything it shouldve, I dont think it wouldve made a difference to what 
Mr and Mrs C ultimately decided in terms of transferring Mr Cs DB funds into the Transact 
personal pension. I think it wouldve simply reinforced what happened. I say this for two main 
reasons:
- Because on balance, Im satisfied that CHFPs recommendation for Mr C to transfer 
his DB funds was suitable and was in his best interests given his and his wifes 
circumstances and objectives. 
- Because Mr C had a strong inclination to transfer his pension pots before 
approaching CHFP. And a source of frustration appears to have been that he had to 
go through so much process to arrive at an answer hed already assessed for 
himself.
Mr and Mrs C wanted flexibility about how and when to take benefits from their pension 
funds. The transfer was financially viable. They wanted to achieve returns to their pensions 
that were greater than the inflation related uprating provided for through the existing 
providers. And they wanted a good prospect of being able to pass any unused benefits 
through the family. The transfer of Mr Cs DB pensions met their reasonable needs and 
wants.
To conclude, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, 
and so I wont be requiring Chesterton House Financial Planning Ltd to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman