DRN-3468637
The complaint
Mr M complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited - trading as Interactive Investor (II) 
has unreasonably asked for further documents to verify him despite having been a customer 
for several years.
What happened
Mr M has had an investment account with II since 2019. In September 2021, he updated his 
primary residence from the UK to Cyprus. As II classified this country as high risk, it asked 
him to provide further information including his source of wealth for the funds hed previously 
deposited and was intending on depositing.
Unhappy with this, Mr M complained. He said II had penalised him for his moving to Cyprus, 
and that it ought to have assessed him as an individual rather than the country he lived in. 
He also explained that he was still a UK resident but that hed be spending more time in 
Cyprus partly due to work and because the account had been opened long before the 
changes, it wasnt reasonable of II to now ask for this information.
II considered Mr Ms complaint, but it maintained that it needed the information as part of its 
regulatory requirements. It warned that should the information not be forthcoming; it would 
consider applying a restriction on the account. Mr M didnt provide II the information it was 
seeking, so in January 2022, restrictions were applied to the account. 
Mr M referred the matter to us. One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt 
recommend it be upheld. The investigator said II was seeking to discharge its regulatory 
requirements and the steps taken, were reasonable. Mr M disagreed. As no agreement was 
reached, the case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as the investigator.
Mr M has made a number of points including the history of his relationship with II and why 
despite having a base in the UK, the change to his primary country of residency (Cyprus) 
shouldnt affect that. Hes also commented on the unfairness actions. Id like to highlight that 
I am aware of his feelings on the topic as well as the nature of the relationship beforehand. 
Ultimately though, the pre-existing relationship  however long  doesnt mean that II ought 
to have handled this matter any differently once it was alerted to a change in Mr Ms 
circumstances. And from what Ive seen, it had no cause to question things any earlier than 
it did.
The crux of the matter here is that in September 2021, Mr M updated his country of 
residence to Cyprus, which prompted II to carry out enhanced due diligence checks. Mr M 
has queried the fairness and legitimacy of this action saying that Cyprus is not high-risk. 
Ive reviewed the account opening the terms and conditions and looked at whether they have 
been applied in a fair and reasonable way. Clause 28.6 says We reserve the right to require 
references from you. In any event, in order to protect you and the banking system, we may 
suspend or withdraw the provision of all or part of the Services to you
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions allowed II to request further information from 
Mr M. And that failing that, it could restrict or close the account. But the terms and conditions 
arent the only factor Ive considered. II has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to 
fulfil and Im still satisfied that it was looking to fulfil those in the actions it took here.
IIs regulatory requirements means that it, along with all financial services firms, must have 
policies and procedures in place to minimise money laundering risks. Ive looked at the 
guidance issued by the Joint Money Laundering Steering Group (JMLSG). This states each 
firm should determine the level of customer due diligence it needs to take when offering its 
service. And, its customer due diligence procedures should be appropriate and proportionate 
to the degree of risk associated with the firms business and its customers.
The guidance further states that a risk assessment should be carried out when considering 
the wider environment its customers may operate in. This will help the firm identify whether 
standard due diligence is required or whether extensive due diligence is needed. In making 
this assessment it must take into account certain factors including country of residence, 
geographical risks, customer risk and product/service risk.
Following the address update Mr M made in September 2021, II identified that additional due 
diligence was required. Its provided evidence that it requested information including 
questions it had about the source of Mr Ms wealth given his statements that he was working 
in Cyprus. This information was requested in October, November and December 2021, 
which clearly explained the consequences of not providing the requested information before 
II restricted the account in January 2022. 
Ive thought about why the information II sought was needed. II says Cyprus is at classed as 
at risk because of historical links to money laundering. As such, II says its required to 
complete additional customer due diligence prior to making a decision as to whether or not it 
could continue to offer Mr M a service. 
Bearing in mind the JMSLG guidance, Im satisfied IIs decision to complete further checks 
wasnt unreasonable in light of its obligations  nor was it reasonable to take into account 
country and geographical factors. In addition, the information II sought from Mr M including 
how hed previously made and intended to continue making deposits to the account wasnt 
unduly onerous, so I cant fairly conclude that it has acted unreasonably.
Mr M says he isnt being treated fairly. Part of that stems from his belief that II should have 
requested the information from the outset. I dont find that persuasive, especially as the 
change to his residency had only come about years later. But also, because the actions II 
took were fair and reasonable in light of the circumstances and anti-money laundering 
responsibilities. So, for all the reasons Ive set out here, I dont think II has acted unfairly.As I mentioned before, I can see II tried to contact Mr M over the course of several months. 
In January 2022, having had no response, II sent a further message to advise that the 
account had been restricted. As Mr M had been given warning that this would happen, I 
consider II acted fairly and within the account terms and conditions in placing the restriction 
on the account. It follows then that II isnt responsible for any potential financial loss should 
Mr M claim is as a result of having to encash his shares prematurely.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Interactive Investor Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman