DRN-2911244
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C, who are represented by a legal firm, complain that Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited rejected their claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect 
of a timeshare.
What happened
The complaint submitted by the legal firm on behalf of Mr and Mrs C concerns a purchase 
they made in 2014 from a company I will call S. However, there is no evidence that this was 
funded by a loan from Clydesdale. I have been given to understand that this was an upgrade 
from previous purchases. I gather they first became involved with S in 2005 and again in 
2008 when they made previous purchases. Our investigator has established that they took 
out a loan with Clydesdale in November 2008 for £25,000 which was repaid on 29 April 
2013. It is presumed this was to fund the 2008 purchase.
In the complaint details the legal firm has supplied information which appears to relate 
primarily to the 2014 purchase and it has said that the product was misrepresented. The 
details of the complaint have been set out by our investigator in his view letter and I trust 
both parties will accept that there is no need for me to repeat these. For the avoidance of 
doubt, I would confirm I have read all the submissions. It suggested that Mr and Mrs C had 
been told the timeshare would have a resale value. 
Subsequent to being advised that there was no evidence that the 2014 had been funded by 
Clydesdale the legal firm argued that S continued to sell timeshares as an investment. It said 
that their clients would not have made further purchases had this inability to sell not been 
concealed from them. It added that S went into liquidation in 2019 depriving Mr and Mrs C of 
the benefits of membership. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Our adjudicator has considered the 2008 purchase, but much of the information supplied by 
the legal firm relates to the later sale. In the absence of specific detail of the 2008 purchase 
or of any supporting evidence I have presumed that the issues highlighted in the original 
complaint about the 2014 purchase are relevant to the 2008 purchase which I believe was 
funded by a loan from Clydesdale..
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, Mr and 
Mrs C have a like claim against Clydesdale just as they would have against the supplier. 
So, if their claim against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation 
Act, then that is something Clydesdale could take into account when it considers the claims 
against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. Mr and 
Mrs C have said the timeshare they bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, Mr and Mrs C would have six years from the date upon which they 
suffered a loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring their claim. 
As Clydesdale steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work 
out when the clock starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it 
would start if the claim had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of 
the complaint, I think damage occurred when Mr and Mrs C suffered a financial loss as a 
result of purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
 The legal firm says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, Mr and Mrs C paid to 
enter an agreement which has caused them to suffer a loss. It says that but for the 
misrepresentation, they wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid 
any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in November 2008. Thats the moment when they accepted any potential benefit under 
the contract, and it was also the moment they accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr and 
Mrs C needed to raise their claim no later than November 2018. As I understand it, they 
raised their claim in July 2019, which is nearly 11 years after the loss occurred.
They may say that they werent aware they could raise concerns about the 
misrepresentation until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims 
such as this, start to run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date Mr and 
Mrs C became aware that something might have gone wrong.  
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A, the courts may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mr and Mrs C 
would have six years from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the 
information I have, their finance agreement ended in April 2013 so a s.140A claim needed to 
be raised no later than April 2019. As I understand it, Mr and Mrs C raised their claim in July 
2019, which is more than six years after the finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide whether or not any claim Mr and Mrs C may have 
against the supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that this misrepresentation claim against the supplier and the like claim against Clydesdale more than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for Clydesdale to take 
this into account when considering this s.75 claim against it. 
The legal firm has raised the issue of concealment and asserts that Mr and Mrs C were 
prevented from making a claim in time due to the actions of S. It has said that until Mr and 
Mrs C were able to take advice from it they were unaware of the true nature of what they had 
purchased.  Typically, s.32 LA applies to fraudulent misrepresentation but it does extend to 
concealment. In certain situations, it can extend the time the consumer has to raise a claim.
However, Mr and Mrs C have raised a number of issues with the product in their 
claim/complaint and those issues could have been discoverable earlier. For example, they 
say that they were told that Ss resorts were exclusive and not open to the general public. 
They claim that they were told that availability wasnt an issue. It seems that they identified 
problems with both those claims within six years of their purchase. If they did not then I 
consider they ought to have been able to discover that something had gone wrong.  As such 
I consider they had reason to make a claim within six years and so I cannot conclude that 
s.32 extends the time limit in this case. 
Given I do not consider this claim can succeed due to the time limits I have not given further 
consideration to the substance of the claim and I make no findings as to its merits. 
 So, given that this claim now is more than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I think 
Clydesdales decision not to look into this claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman