DRN-4459922
The complaint
Mr E seeks to complain about National Westminster Bank Plcs actions in relation to an 
overdraft facility hes held with the bank since 2012. He believes the bank should have done 
more to take proper account of the suitability of the credit limit he had in light of his changing 
financial circumstances during the course of the borrowing.
Background
I recently issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint, and how I thought the dispute should be resolved. Ive reproduced my provisional 
decision below, which forms part of this final decision. I invited both parties to let me have 
any further comments they wished to make in response to my provisional conclusions.
What happened
Mr E opened his National Westminster current account in 2011. A year later, National 
Westminster approved an overdraft limit of £1,500, having first agreed lower sums. The 
account had broadly operated in credit up to that point. However, after this limit was 
approved, Mr Es account was regularly overdrawn; a situation that (with some brief 
exceptions) has prevailed to this day. During this period National Westminster applied 
charges and interest to Mr Es account balance.
Mr E says that he was struggling both financially and with his health, and had resorted to 
gambling and payday loans. He thinks the bank should have identified his difficulties and 
taken proactive steps to help him, and that the approved overdraft wasnt affordable for him.
National Westminster believes that its decision to approve the overdraft falls outside the time 
limits in our rules. It also says that it has made efforts to assist Mr E with his finances. It has 
pointed to refunds of charges it made in response to a previous complaint from Mr E. The 
bank says that in 2016 it placed controls on Mr Es overdraft facility, and that it has 
prevented numerous subsequent overdraft limit increases. And in March 2019 it agreed a 
debt management plan with Mr E to reduce the overdraft balance, following a credit review it 
undertook at that time.
Our investigator didnt think we could deal with Mr Es complaint. She felt it had been 
referred to us outside our time limits, noting that the overdraft limit was approved in 2012 
and that in 2019 Mr E had brought a complaint to us about a lending decision (made by a 
different provider). The investigator considered that this was relevant to whether Mr E ought 
reasonably to have become aware he had cause for complaint about National Westminsters 
lending. As Mr E didnt bring his complaint to us until 2023, more than three years after that 
point, she concluded we couldnt deal with it.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said he only became aware he could 
complain about National Westminster more recently, when speaking with Citizens Advice. 
He said hed spoken with the bank several times over the years about his financial struggles 
and his physical and mental health, but that it did nothing to help. Mr E also referenced the 
Covid-19 pandemic and the death of a close friend by way of explanation for the time taken 
to contact us.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Im minded to conclude that, while there are some aspects of the complaint that fall outside 
my power to deal with, Mr Es complaint isnt solely about National Westminsters decision to 
approve the overdraft facility in 2012. Hes also expressed concern over the banks handling 
of his financial difficulties since that point, up to and including the current position. So where 
appropriate, Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
National Westminsters decision to approve Mr Es credit limit
The relevant time limits are those set out in DISP 2.8 of our rules, found in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. They say that where a firm hasnt consented to us 
looking into a complaint, I generally cant do so if its referred to us more than six years after 
the event. Or, if its later, more than three years since the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint.
Mr E brought his complaint to us in February 2023, having first raised it with National 
Westminster shortly before. While theres evidence that he was in contact with the bank 
about his financial situation as far back as 2016, theres no indication of him complaining to 
National Westminster about this particular aspect prior to February 2023.
Thats clearly more than six years after November 2012, which is the latest point at which his 
overdraft credit limit increase took place. So for the complaint to have been brought in time, I 
would need to be satisfied that there was no basis on which Mr E became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for complaint before February 2020, three 
years before he raised his complaint.
Mr Es correspondence has focused on the point at which he was aware he had cause for 
complaint, following his conversation with Citizens Advice. But that isnt the only test. The 
time limit rule requires that I also consider when a complainant ought reasonably to have 
become aware he had cause for complaint.
That test is an objective one. It is based on the legal concept of what the reasonable person 
of ordinary prudence would do in the same or similar circumstances. I cant fairly depart 
from the legal position, which is that the test is based not on what happened to Mr E as an 
individual, but what that reasonable person in his position would have done.
Mr E was experiencing significant financial hardship from at least 2016, and possibly earlier. 
His own comments, account statements and National Westminsters file notes demonstrate 
this. In addition, in March 2019 he had a conversation with National Westminster  prompted 
by the credit review the bank has mentioned  that included a structured reduction of the 
overdraft limit. Having thought carefully about this, Im of the opinion that there was by then 
sufficient information that the reasonable person ought reasonably to have become aware 
they had cause for complaint.
With this in mind, I find the point at which Mr E ought reasonably to have become aware he 
had cause for complaint about the credit limit approved by National Westminster was 
reached before February 2020. So I can only properly conclude that this aspect of the 
complaint has been referred to us outside the time limit in DISP 2.8.2(2)R.There are some circumstances in which I might disapply the time limit. First, where the 
respondent firm has consented to us dealing with the complaint. National Westminster hasnt 
consented to this. The other reason is where in my view the failure to comply with the time 
limit was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr E has undoubtedly had some very difficult issues to deal with. But throughout this, his 
own evidence is that he was in touch with National Westminster. I can see he was dealing 
with the bank in relation to his ongoing financial matters and in complaining about account 
charges, which he did in 2021. So Im not minded to say the circumstances hes described, 
as difficult as they were, explain the failure to comply with the time limit.
I therefore find that I cant deal with this aspect of Mr Es complaint.
Account charges applied by National Westminster
As Ive mentioned here, in 2021 Mr E complained to National Westminster about charges 
applied to his account. The banks response (dated 17 March 2021) indicates that it 
reviewed Mr Es account from 2012, confirming charges were applied for unarranged 
borrowing, returned items and the use of the agreed overdraft facility. National Westminster 
went on to say that it had refunded arranged overdraft charges applied between 2018 and 
2021, in addition to previous refunds of unarranged borrowing fees.
National Westminsters letter gave Mr E referral rights to our service. It told him he had six 
months in which to refer matters. So for me to be able to review those charges, Id need to 
see that Mr E contacted us no later than 17 September 2021. As previously noted, however, 
Mr E didnt complain to us until February 2023, some time after the time limit had passed.
Bearing in mind this timescale and what Ive already said about the circumstances in light of 
this delay, I find that this aspect of Mr Es complaint has been brought too late for me to be 
able to deal with it.
National Westminsters response to Mr Es financial difficulty
Mr E has been experiencing financial difficulty for many years. Hes also been aware of 
those difficulties, and theres clear evidence of him discussing this with the bank dating back 
to at least 2016. A key aspect of his complaint is about the way in which National 
Westminster responded to his difficulty, and his belief that it ought to have done more to 
assist him.
I see no reason to conclude that this aspect of the complaint has been brought out of time. It 
relates to an ongoing obligation on the part of the bank. Having been raised as a complaint 
in February 2023, I can deal with events dating back to February 2017. I can also take into 
account events prior to that point where they are relevant to an understanding of the 
subsequent position, bearing in mind the constraints Ive already mentioned.
Mr E believes that National Westminster didnt do enough to identify his difficulties and assist 
him in dealing with his situation. He points to a number of factors  the fact an overdraft 
should not be treated as a long-term borrowing relationship, his gambling spending, and his 
entry into payday loans.
National Westminster has provided evidence to show that in 2016 Mr E was in touch with it 
about setting up an overdraft control. Ive no reason to think the bank wrongly lifted this 
control. I can also see that National Westminster rejected several overdraft limit increases 
since that point.In 2018 the FCA undertook a consultation following a review into the high-cost credit market, 
which identified (among other things) the potential for consumer detriment arising from long- 
term overdraft use. National Westminster has demonstrated that following that exercise, in 
March 2019 it contacted Mr E to conduct a review of his financial circumstances.
That review gathered information about Mr Es gambling, his payday loan borrowing, his 
income and his expenditure. As a result the bank set up a repayment plan designed to 
reduce Mr Es overdraft limit (and balance) from £1,500 to £700 by July (later extended to 
September) 2020. So Im satisfied that up to that point, the bank took reasonable steps to 
assist and support Mr E in dealing with his situation.
Unfortunately, by November 2019 Mr Es financial circumstances had taken a turn for the 
worse. Hed lost his job and was unable to secure new employment, which severely limited 
his income. As I understand it, at that point he was also dealing with debt collection 
companies and intending to speak with a debt management company to make a long-term 
plan for dealing with his creditors. Im conscious that National Westminster at that time 
suggested managing Mr Es account through its specialist team. From what I can see, Mr E 
declined that option.
The FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets out rules that govern treatment of 
customers in financial difficulty. CONC 7.3.4R says that a firm must treat customers in 
default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. Although in 
November 2019 Mr E wasnt in arrears with the overdraft reduction plan, the bank was on 
notice that he wouldnt be able to keep to it. So I think its fair to treat the CONC provisions 
as a relevant consideration.
In terms of forbearance, its been fairly long-standing guidance1 that a lender dealing with a 
borrower in financial difficulty and able only to make token payments should consider 
reducing or stopping interest and charges. Based on the information National Westminster 
had in its possession in November 2019, its fair to say that Mr E was in such a position.
I can understand Mr E might have been reluctant to have his account passed to National 
Westminsters specialist team. However, even if that was the case, this doesnt mean 
National Westminster gave proper consideration to the impact of continuing to charge Mr E 
interest on the overdraft balance. I accept that Mr Es financial problems ran rather deeper 
than the cost of borrowing from National Westminster, but I do think the bank should have 
suspended further interest at that point. It was clear the situation was unsustainable for Mr E, 
given the extent to which his income exceeded his expenses, and the indications were that 
this was unlikely to improve any time soon.
Im aware that in 2021 the bank refunded charges predating this point, and that Mr E has 
more recently been able to get a job. So I think he and the bank might be in a position to 
resume the debt reduction plan agreed in March 2019. National Westminster should contact 
Mr E to conduct a further review of his financial position, with a view to reaching mutually 
acceptable arrangements in this respect. But I think its reasonable that the bank also 
reduces Mr Es current indebtedness by an amount equivalent to the interest its charged on 
the overdraft balance since November 2019, to further assist Mr E and recognise a step it 
should properly have considered at that time.
Subject to any further comments or submissions received from either party, my provisional 
conclusions were that I couldnt deal with the matters I considered hadnt been referred to us 
in time, but that in respect of the aspects I could deal with, the bank should reduce Mr Es 
1 See for example, CONC 7.3.5(1)G and paragraph 7.4 of the Office of Fair Trading (OFT)
Irresponsible Lending Guidance March 2010outstanding balance by an amount equivalent to the interest it charged since November 
2019. I also proposed that the bank engage with Mr E with a view to reaching a mutually 
acceptable debt reduction plan, including whether it would be appropriate to charge interest 
on his remaining balance.
response to my provisional findings
Neither National Westminster nor Mr E expressed any reason for me to change my 
provisional findings, which I adopt in full in this final decision. National Westminster provided 
additional information about the interest refund and the steps it would be able to take to deal 
with Mr Es financial situation going forward. Ill cover these points below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
National Westminster has calculated the interest it applied from 5 November 2019 as being 
£944.65 in total. It has said Mr Es current overdraft facility is £1,200, which he is fully 
utilising. So a refund of interest would reduce Mr Es balance to £255.35.
The bank has proposed reducing the overdraft limit to this sum, which would help to alleviate 
Mr Es current situation as well as reduce the possibility of him simply running up the debt 
again. National Westminster has also said it will waive any pending charges. In light of what 
Mr E has said about his financial problems and indebtedness, this all seems sensible to me.
Noting what the bank has said and the extent of the debt reduction, it might not now be 
necessary for the parties to agree a further plan to deal with the remaining balance. Mr Es 
financial circumstances have quite possibly improved as a result of him recently getting a 
job, and it may not be desirable for him to enter into a payment arrangement with the bank if 
hes comfortable with the reduced level of overdraft facility, given that doing so would likely 
have an impact on his credit file.
If, however, Mr E does want to discuss such an arrangement with National Westminster, the 
bank has said he can discuss suitable options with its overdraft team. It has provided a 
contact number of 0800 029 4219, which Im happy to share with Mr E. Im also pleased to 
note the bank has measures in place that enable its operatives to be aware of Mr Es 
vulnerabilities whenever he contacts it. Hopefully such measures will assist in reducing the 
risk of Mr E finding his finances unmanageable in future.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that:
Ive no power to deal with National Westminster Bank Plcs original lending decision 
in 2012 or to review the charges it refunded in 2021, as those aspects of the 
complaint havent been referred within the relevant time limits in our rules
National Westminster Bank Plc should reduce Mr Es outstanding overdraft balance 
(and limit) by £944.65, being the amount it has calculated as the overdraft interest it 
has charged Mr E since 5 November 2019. It should provide Mr E with a breakdown 
of its calculation
Subject to Mr E contacting it, National Westminster Bank Plc should engage with any 
review he seeks of his current financial circumstances and an affordable debt 
reduction plan. The bank is aware that any such plan should include regard for whether it is appropriate to charge interest on the remaining balance going forward, 
which will depend on Mr Es financial circumstances at the time
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman