DRN-4333444
The complaint
Mr A complains about the charges applied by Stellantis Financial Services UK Limited1 at 
the end of his hire agreement.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr A entered into a hire agreement with Stellantis for a car. The duration of 
the agreement was four years. 
At the end of the agreement in March 2023, Stellantis inspected and collected the car. Mr A 
then received a bill from Stellantis for £400, as the car had been returned with an incomplete 
service history.
Mr A complained to Stellantis about this and provided them with the complete service history 
at this stage. Stellantis considered this and reduced Mr As bill by £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill. However, they said that the agreement terms and conditions explained the car 
needed to be serviced, and the service history needed to be provided when the car was 
collected  it couldnt be provided later as the car wouldve been taken to auction already 
with incomplete service history. Stellantis also explained that their pre-collection 
correspondence to Mr A also told him that the full service history had to be provided upon 
inspection and collection of the car. So, although they offered to reduce Mr As bill, Stellantis 
said he still had to pay £300.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said that he 
felt it was clear from the evidence provided that Stellantis had made Mr A aware the service 
history would need to be provided when the car was inspected and collected, and not at a 
later date. Because of that, our investigator said the amount Stellantis were asking Mr A to 
pay was fair. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed provided the service details now to Stellantis and he felt the 
charge was unfair. 
As Mr A hasnt accepted, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the hire agreement entered by Mr A is a regulated consumer credit agreement this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Having considered everything thats been provided by both parties, I agree with our 
investigator in this case. I dont think Stellantis have acted unfairly by asking Mr A to pay for 
the incomplete service history when the car was inspected and collected. Ill explain why. 
1 Referred to on Mr As hire agreement as the formerly named PSA Finance UK Limited trading as 
Free2Move Lease.
When Mr A entered the agreement in March 2019 he signed and accepted the requirements 
contained within it. Mr A confirmed he had been given the car service and maintenance 
book. He also signed to confirm the service history of the car would be completed, and the 
service history book would be stamped by the servicing dealership. In addition to this, 
definition 5.1.2 of the hire agreement terms and conditions state maintain and service the 
vehicle in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations. It is your responsibility to 
ensure that the repairer stamps the vehicles service book each time the vehicle is serviced 
(the service book must be returned to us on the day of collection if the vehicle is recovered 
by us for any reason).
In December 2022, Stellantis sent Mr A a reminder that the contract was nearing its end, and 
within this they explained what would need to be returned, along with the car, when it was 
inspected and collected. They also highlighted any charges that might be incurred should 
any items not be available upon inspection or collection. The reminder told Mr A that he 
needed to ensure the car had a full service history and that it needed to be stamped in the 
service book and available with the car at the time it was inspected and collected. The 
reminder also explained the charge that would be applied if any of the cars service history 
wasnt provided at the time of inspection and collection. 
At the beginning of February 2023 Mr A was sent another reminder that the agreement was 
coming to an end. This reminder contained all the same information that was contained in 
the letter he received in December 2022, so the need for the cars full service history to be 
provided at the time of inspection and collection was reiterated within it. Shortly after this 
reminder, Mr A arranged for the inspection of the car. He was sent an email confirming the 
inspection date, and an attachment from the inspection agent explaining what Mr A could 
expect, and what he needed to make available. The guidance said:
The vehicle must have been serviced and looked after according to the 
manufacturers servicing/maintenance schedule. The Service Book  if originally 
supplied with the vehicle  must be present and date-stamped by the service 
provider as evidence that the services have taken place.
It went on to say:
If the service record is kept digitally, you must produce evidence that the vehicle has 
been serviced and maintained according to the vehicle manufacturers service and 
maintenance schedule. Appropriate evidence would include hard copies of the 
service record or invoices that clearly showing the date, vehicle mileage reading and 
the repairer/service agents stamp.
Finally, it said:
Please be aware that any items missing at the point of inspection will be charged for. 
These items cannot be returned or placed in the vehicle following the inspection.
There is no question that Mr A maintained the cars service history. And I accept his point 
that the information was stored digitally on the cars key, and he has since provided the 
service history to Stellantis. But Im satisfied Stellantis made it clear to Mr A at the beginning 
of the agreement, and as the agreement ended, that he would be expected to provide the 
cars full service history at the time of inspection and collection. It was also made clear to 
him that he needed to provide evidence, even if the service record was being kept digitally. 
Im also satisfied Mr A was made aware of the charge that would be applied if he failed to do 
this. 
Stellantis reduced the bill for the missing service history by £100 once Mr A had provided evidence the services had been completed as expected. Im satisfied that was a reasonable 
thing for them to do, and theyre entitled to ask Mr A to settle any outstanding balance. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr A. But I wont be asking Stellantis to do 
anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman