DRN-3771419
The complaint
Mr P (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) provided him with a credit facility he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr P approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in January 2017. This was a running credit
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net
amount of the customers choosing. Mr P was not advanced a payday loan.
Mr P was given a facility with a £240 limit on 4 January 2017. Mr P took one drawdown and 
didnt make any repayments. The outstanding debt was sold to a third party collection 
agency in September 2020.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ps complaint and she though SNC shouldnt have
granted the facility. The read only bank statements that SNC had access too showed that
Mr P had returned direct debits, overdraft fees and was repaying another payday loan. In her
view, the facility wasnt affordable to Mr P.
Mr Ps representative didnt acknowledge receipt of the adjudicators assessment.
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it said:
Mr P had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments.
Although it knew about the other credit, it didnt affect Mr Ps affordability.
The overdraft fees were low.
No detriment has been caused to Mr P because he hasnt repaid what he borrowed.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was not intending to not 
uphold Mr Ps complaint. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and in 
italics and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the facility was provided.
To start with, Mr P wasnt given a payday loan. Instead he was provided with a credit facility
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time.
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following a
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown.
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr P this facility when it
was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules in
place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the
FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put
simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Mr P had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to his
bank statements, in order for SNC to monitor Mr Ps finances and to allow it to carry out
additional affordability assessments.
Finally, Mr Ps expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid.
Therefore, when Mr Ps facility was approved for £240 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr P
would be in a position to make the repayment of around £20 per month, by carrying out a
proportionate check.
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Ps income and expenditure because it had
read only access to his bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being
granted. It then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Ps income and expenditure was,
after completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr P could afford the
minimum repayment towards the facility.
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the
summary of the results SNC has provided, and, I dont think these results wouldve led SNC
to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out further checks into Mr Ps
situation before the facility was approved.
Having reviewed the bank transaction data in the 90 days leading up to the facility being
granted, I dont agree with the adjudicator and based on what SNC saw it was reasonable
for it to have advanced the facility with a credit limit of £240. Ive explained why below.
The facility was approved at the start of January 2017, and SNC wouldve been aware from
the transaction data, that Mr Ps income fluctuated. Looking at the three payments he
received from his employer leading up to the start of the facility, they were all for different
amounts. But SNC calculated an average to be around £1,066 per month which seems
reasonable.
And while, I can see two payments in the November and December 2016 to one high cost
credit provider, there was only one credit in that time, of £500, so its likely that either this
loan had been repaid or at most, given the payment of £342  Mr P had one more payment
to make.
There wasnt any other signs of other high cost credit being serviced at this time,
there wasnt from the transaction data any indication that Mr P was either servicing high
amounts of other debt or was having problems servicing this debt. Evidence of one payday
loan, is in my view insufficient to say that SNC ought to not have approved the facility.
I also accept that there were three returned direct debits within the 90 days leading up to the
facility being approved, but these all happened in November 2016, so I dont think there was
a consistent pattern forming where Mr P was having the same payments returned as unpaid.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable of SNC to have thought that Mr P could afford his
minimum payment of £20.
I also acknowledge that there were overdraft fees. This could be a sign of having problems
managing his finances. But this, was in my view the only possible sign that all may not havebeen well with Mr Ps finances and on its own is not sufficient to have alerted SNC to wider
difficulties and not have approved the facility.
However, I have to counter that with the fact that Mr P was provided with a credit facility with
a modest limit which looked more than affordable given the repayment of £20.There also
wasnt anything else that SNC saw before the facility was approved which may have
suggested Mr P was having financial difficulties or having problems managing his payments.
Therefore, based on what Ive seen I am intending to conclude, SNC made a reasonable
decision to provide this facility. It therefore follows that Im intending to no uphold Mr Ps
complaint.
Response to the provisional decision 
Both Mr P and SNC were asked to provide any further information or comments for 
consideration as soon as possible, but no later than 25 October 2022. 
SNC responded and agreed with the findings in the provisional decision.
Mr Ps representative confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and explained the 
outcome had been communicated to him. However, no further comments have been 
provided. 
As the deadline for responses to the provisional decision has now passed, I am able to 
proceed to issue the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information or comments have been provided in response to the provisional decision 
as a result I see no reason to depart from the findings I previously made. 
So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons that SNC 
wasnt unreasonable in approving the credit facility for Mr P  given what it could see in the 
read only bank statements at the time. 
Im, therefore, not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman