DRN-3638144
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt 
with his request for assistance in recovering money relating to a flight booking hed made.
What happened
Mr M bought tickets for a first class flight with an airline B using his American Express 
credit card. B subsequently told Mr M that it was unable to accommodate him in first class, 
but could do so in business class. Mr M has a medical condition that meant the downgrade 
was unsuitable for him.
B declined Mr Ms request to refund him in full and he cancelled his booking, incurring 
cancellation fees as a result. He contacted American Express seeking reimbursement. 
American Express raised a chargeback claim with B, which B successfully defended on the 
basis its booking terms entitled it to charge the cancellation fee. Mr M was unhappy with this 
outcome and complained to American Express, but the card provider maintained its stance. 
So Mr M referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt think American Express had dealt with Mr M unfairly. She said Bs 
agreement with Mr M entitled it to change the class of Mr Ms ticket, subject to relevant EU 
regulations that entitled him to a 75% refund. Mr M had sought a full refund and cancelled 
when this wasnt forthcoming. American Express had acted appropriately in attempting to 
recover Mr Ms cancellation fees and in declining to take matters further when B provided its 
defence to the claim.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said he was unaware of the EU 
regulations and that this hadnt been mentioned by B, whod only given him the option to 
cancel. He has since recovered his money by instigating court proceedings against B, but 
thinks American Express could have achieved the same outcome. Hes asked for matters to 
be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I fully understand Mr Ms strength of feeling in this matter, Im not 
going to uphold his complaint. I dont find anything that suggests American Express acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards him. It received his request, attempted to recover money 
on his behalf from B, and told him the outcome and basis for its decision, all within a 
reasonable timescale of under three weeks.
I find that American Express was entitled to deal with matters in the way it did. A card 
provider isnt obliged to agree a claim simply because one is made. In this case, the 
evidence American Express received suggested to it that there was justification for the 
cancellation fee. That wasnt an unreasonable view to take based on that evidence.
The fact Mr M was subsequently able to reach settlement with B doesnt mean American 
Express was remiss in not accepting and taking on the claim itself. I agree with Mr M that it 
could have done so, but thats not the same as saying it should have done so.
Im pleased that Mr M was able to settle his claim with B and recover his out of pocket costs 
in full. I should note that this would have the effect of settling any like claim he might have 
had against American Express under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Overall, for the reasons Ive set out here, Im not 
persuaded American Express needs to take any action in response to his linked complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman