DRN-1535086
The complaint
Ms C says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy when she took out a new credit card in 2005. 
What happened
I can see that Ms C has already been offered some money for the commission Capital One 
received from selling her the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into this case in detail 
and didnt think Ms C had actually been mis-sold the PPI policy.
Ms C disagreed and still thought she had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place. She asked 
that an ombudsman make a final decision about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
the complaint about the mis-sale.
The central theme of Ms Cs complaint is that she never agreed to PPI and never even knew 
she had it with her credit card account. She says that she had a serious illness for which she 
would have certainly claimed under such a policy, had she known of its existence. Because 
she didnt, she says this clearly demonstrates she was unaware of the PPI.
Im very sorry to hear of the difficult time Ms C endured. But Capital One sent us the copy of 
her credit card application that she filled out back in 2005. From this, I can see it was a 
postal application. I therefore think Ms C probably completed it in her own time and without 
any intervention from Capital One.
The form presented her with a yes / no choice about having PPI with her new card. She 
chose the yes box and left the no one empty. So I think she would have understood there 
was an option and she went on to consent to the policy.
I was also sent quite a few copies of her credit card statements from over the years. The 
vast majority show that she was being charged for Payment Protection Insurance and in 
my view this does seem very prominent on the relevant pages of the statements. So again, 
this is very strong evidence that she had asked for the policy in the first place and would 
have been able to see it was being regularly charged for. I think if Ms C had never asked for 
the PPI, she would have wanted to know what the charges were for. Ive seen no evidence 
she did this.
Capital One didnt provide an advised sale so it needed only to provide Ms C with enough 
information so she could decide for herself whether or not she wanted PPI and whether it 
was right for her. There was a reference to further information about the policy rules directly 
next to where Ms C made the selection for PPI and my experience is that this included 
information about the charges and other important policy features. I therefore think she had 
enough information to decide what she wanted to do. 
I completely accept Ms C may not remember all this after such a long time and having had to 
endure illness. Capital One also may well have done a better job at explaining things on its 
forms, but Im afraid this doesnt change what I think. This is because Ms C made the choice 
to have the PPI. She wasnt caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies and I think the charges were affordable for her and similar to those charged by other 
providers at the time. In the event of a successful claim on the PPI policy, Ms C would have 
also been able to have her outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 
months. 
Im very sorry to have to disappoint Ms C, but all the evidence points, quite strongly in my 
view, to her consenting to the PPI and being able to see it existed. On the basis of that 
evidence, I cannot uphold her mis-sale complaint.
A Retrospective claim
Ive only seen a comment from Ms C quite recently relating to potentially making a 
retrospective claim on the PPI about her illness and (presumably) absence from work. I dont 
have enough details of this, nor have I seen details of the policy rules concerning whether it 
would be allowed. Ms C will therefore need to formally ask Capital One about this and if she 
isnt happy, she can make a complaint related to the matter. At the same time Capital One 
could engage with Ms C as a result of this letter, as a matter of good will, and perhaps 
expedite that issue for her.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Ms C. However, it does have to pay back to Ms C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman