DRN-3130864
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she lost to a scam. 
Miss L is represented in this complaint by a legal guardian. 
What happened
Miss L was on a social media platform looking to buy a pair of trainers  considered to be 
luxury items because of their limited availability. She contacted the seller about them. In 
order to order them she needed to provide details about herself (address for delivery etc) 
and proof of sending the payment; bank account details were provided by the seller for 
payment to be sent to. 
Miss L tells us she never actually completed the order but noticed the following day (8 
January 2021) that the money - £160 - had been taken from her account. She contacted 
Monzo on 12 January 2021 to report the scam as the ordered goods hadnt arrived and 
when she had tried going back to the seller she had been blocked from the site. 
Monzo didnt refund Miss L and when responding to her complaint explained it didnt think 
she had taken sufficient steps to check who she was paying, and for what, before the 
payment was made. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that, under the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM), Monzo should reimburse customers who are 
victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances; and she didnt 
think those circumstances applied here. (Although not a signatory of the CRM, Monzo has 
agreed to adhere to it). 
The investigator upheld the complaint as she was satisfied that Miss L had a reasonable 
basis for belief in placing the order and making payment. In making this finding, the 
investigator noted Miss L was a minor at the time. 
Monzo has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, it says:
The information it has provided from a different reseller, shows these trainers sell for 
between £220-£250 and so it considers the price here of £160 to be too good to be 
true. And that as the trainers are sold from abroad, import duty, vat and shipping 
would have added considerably to their cost. 
It doesnt consider Miss Ls age to be a relevant consideration  the test is 
reasonable basis which it considers to mean a claim should be assessed as to what 
a reasonable person would think. It also says the CRM makes no reference to a 
reasonable basis for belief being different on a person by person basis and its a 
general condition. If the argument is the age of the customer affected their ability to 
view this as a scam, then its a different section that would be applicable in relation to 
vulnerability. But its satisfied Miss L had capacity to protect herself. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a payment services provider is expected to 
process payments that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which apply to this complaint, and account terms and conditions. 
But where a customer made a payment as a result of the actions of a scammer, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for a payment services provider to reimburse its 
customer, even though the payment was authorised. 
Miss L has maintained throughout that she didnt authorise any payments to the seller, the 
money was taken from her account. But she hasnt provided any persuasive explanation for 
how the scammer might have her account details; or had access to her account in order to 
make payment. Ive also noted that both in a call to Monzo and in the online chat with it, she 
says she had placed an order (that hadnt arrived). And the social media instructions from 
the seller  which Miss L has provided a copy of  say an order is placed once payment 
confirmation is sent. As Miss L has referred on more than occasion to her order not arriving, 
Im satisfied on balance that she did authorise the £160 payment to the seller. 
Monzo accepts that Miss L has been the victim of an authorised push payment scam. I have 
taken account of whether Monzo ought to have reimbursed Miss L under the provisions of 
the CRM, and whether it ought to have done more to protect her from potential financial 
harm from fraud.  The CRM also places a level of care on customers such as Miss L, so I 
have considered whether she met this. 
The CRM
The CRM requires payment service providers to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this, in all but limited circumstances.  It 
is for Monzo to establish that a customer has failed to meet a requisite level of care under 
one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM. 
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but these arent applicable here. 
Monzo has explained that it isnt relying on whether it provided an effective warning to Miss L 
in deciding not to reimburse her. Rather it doesnt believe Miss L had a reasonable basis for 
belief. 
Under the CRM Monzo can choose not to reimburse Miss L if it doesnt believe that she took 
the requisite level of care to ensure she had a reasonable basis for belief that the 
person/business she was paying was legitimate and for genuine goods or services. It isnt 
enough for Miss L to believe she was paying a legitimate person/business for genuine goods 
or services, she had to have a reasonable basis for belief. 
Monzo has sought to argue that Miss L didnt have a reasonable basis for belief, largely 
because it believes the price of the goods were too good to be true. In making that 
argument, it has provided information from a resale website to show the trainers in question were usually sold on the secondary market for between £220-£250.  It has also made the 
argument that various taxes, duties and shipping costs would also need to be added into the 
cost. 
I have considered its argument carefully. But I dont find it persuasive.  Having carried out 
my own research into the scammers social media site, I understand it  and they - were 
based in the UK. Whereas the arguments Monzo makes about taxes, vat etc, rely on the 
sale being conducted abroad, through the particular website it has used to support its 
argument. But I havent seen any persuasive evidence that Miss L was making her purchase 
through that particular website, or anywhere else abroad, such that those additional costs 
would be a relevant factor. 
I do agree that £160 is lower than the amount those trainers might typically sell for. But this 
is only a difference of £60-£90. Im not persuaded this of itself indicates the deal is too good 
to be true as Monzo argues. Im mindful this is a secondary market very much dependent on 
what a customer is willing to pay, or the original owner willing to sell for. I dont consider the 
difference so great such that it ought to have aroused suspicions or concerns.   
I have considered that Miss L made the payment to an individual rather than a business. But 
I dont think that is unusual, particularly online. Many sales conducted through online market 
places involve payments to individuals and that can be particularly so if a trader is, say, self-
employed, or doing it for a hobby. The site itself had over 20,000 followers and Im given to 
understand that included celebrities. And I think that would have led to an air of legitimacy 
that Miss L was dealing with a legitimate seller.  
Our investigator has referred to the age of Miss L when making this purchase but Monzo 
doesnt believe that to be a relevant factor, it argues the reasonable basis for belief is a 
general condition which it has taken to mean a claim is to be assessed as to what a 
reasonable person would think. It also says the CRM makes no reference to a reasonable 
basis for belief being different on a person by person basis. 
At R2(1)(C) the CRM says:
In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of 
the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: .[my emphasis]
Im therefore not persuaded by Monzos arguments about what a reasonable person would 
think or that the CRM makes no reference to it being on a person by person basis - the CRM 
explicitly sets out the particular characteristics of the Customer are part of the circumstances 
relevant to whether there was a reasonable basis for belief.
Overall, Im not persuaded Monzo has established Miss L didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief that she was paying a legitimate person/business for genuine goods or services. It 
follows that Im not persuaded the exception for reasonable basis for belief applies to Miss 
Ls payment such that Monzo can choose not to reimburse her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Ltd to:
reimburse £160 to Miss L (less any funds since recovered); and
it should add 8% simple interest per annum from the date it declined to reimburse Miss L to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman