DRN-3552104
The complaint
Mr R complains about how BISL Limited dealt with a cancellation of his motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr R purchased a motor insurance policy which is administered by BISL. Upon checking the 
details provided when Mr R arranged the policy it was noticed that the claim Mr R declared 
as non-fault was actually recorded as a fault claim. Because of this the insurer said there 
would be an additional premium to pay. Mr R paid the premium and raised a complaint with 
his previous insurer about how the claim was recorded. 
After Mr R had paid the additional premium his insurer checked the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database again and said there was a second fault claim which Mr R hadnt 
declared. The insurer asked BISL to issue a seven-day notice of cancellation to Mr R as they 
said they would no longer provide insurance for him. BISL sent a letter to Mr R to let him 
know. 
A few days later, Mr R received the letter and called BISL to find out what was going on. 
BISL looked into the matter and explained the insurer had asked them to cancel the policy 
due to the second claim being discovered. Through the conversations with Mr R it appeared 
that his previous insurer may have recorded two claims on CUE for the same incident. BISL 
asked Mr R to speak with them and ask them to confirm that hed only had one claim on the 
policy. Mr R was unhappy with this and complained. He said the letter had only just arrived 
which only gave him three days to sort this out and that he didnt have time. He also said if 
the letter had arrived a day later then he wouldnt have seen it and would have been driving 
uninsured, which could have serious implications. 
BISL reviewed the complaint and didnt think they had done anything wrong by cancelling his 
policy at the insurers request and sending notification in line with the terms of the policy. 
They said they couldnt control the post so didnt think they were responsible for the delay in 
the letter being received. They also said once the cancellation happened, he was notified by 
text and e-mail. BISL acknowledged their correspondence could have been clearer and 
offered £50 compensation. Mr R didnt agree and referred his complaint here, he said the 
cancellation had caused issues for insurance on other vehicles he owned and didnt think it 
was fair his policy had been cancelled. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found the 
choice to cancel Mr Rs policy was made by his insurer, so any complaint about that would 
need to be directed to them. He also thought BISLs offer of £50 compensation was fair and 
reasonable for the communication issues. 
Mr R didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr R. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it.
The heart of Mr Rs complaint stems from the cancellation of his policy, as it was the 
insurers decision to cancel the policy, Im unable to consider that in this decision. The 
reason is because theyre a separate company and legal entity, so any complaint about the 
cancellation itself needs to be addressed against the insurer. In this decision I will only be 
looking at the actions of BISL in administering the cancellation.  
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy say:
Where we cancel we will provide seven days prior written notice to your 
last known address
I can see BISL received the request from Mr Rs insurer and then sent him a letter on 7 April 
2021, which let him know his policy would be cancelled on 16 April 2021. As this letter was 
sent to his home address and provided more than seven days notice, Im satisfied BISL did 
what was supposed to be done under the policy. However, Ive also looked at whether they 
did so fairly and reasonably. 
As Mr R has pointed out driving without insurance would have serious implications. 
Therefore, its good practice to let a policyholder know when their policy is being cancelled 
and to use at least two methods of communication. I cant see that this was done in Mr Rs 
case but BISL have said he was notified by text and e-mail when it did cancel. 
Ive also listened to a call Mr R had with BISL when he received the letter and before his 
policy cancelled. I understand Mr Rs frustration at the situation as it only appears to have 
arisen by either an error by his previous insurer or this one. However, as BISL did what it 
needed to under the policy and Mr R was notified about the cancellation he didnt end up 
unknowingly driving without insurance. So, while I think BISL could have been better in the 
communication Im satisfied £50 is sufficient compensation for this. So, Im not going to tell 
them to pay anymore.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that £50 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. If not already done so BISL Limited need to pay this to Mr R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman