DRN-3038057
The complaint
Mr Bs complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim made on his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr Bs car was involved in a collision with a third-partys vehicle. Mr B 
contacted UKI later that day to let it know what had happened and to say he didnt want UKI 
to arrange for the repair of his car at that stage. He wanted liability to be established before 
arranging any repairs. 
In the months that followed, Mr B and UKI remained in contact about the claim. UKI 
explained in December 2019 it was likely liability would be split between the insurers on a 
50/50 basis given the apparent circumstances surrounding the collision. UKI made an offer 
to the third partys insurer on that basis in February 2020 and it was eventually rejected in 
April 2020. 
While UKI was waiting for more information from the other insurer, Mr B indicated he wanted 
to arrange to have repairs carried out to his car. In January 2021, UKI told Mr B it would be 
closing its file due to a lack of progress with the other insurer and that he could have the 
repairs done at any time. It said any further damage caused by the delay to the repairs 
wouldnt be covered by the policy. 
Mr B said he hadnt been told that about the damage before, so he complained to UKI. UKI 
replied that it was only responsible for the cost of repairs at the time of the claim and that 
any additional damage occurring due to Mr Bs decision to delay the repairs wasnt covered. 
UKI accepted it hadnt logged Mr Bs complaint made over the phone initially, which resulted 
in him submitting his complaint online 12 days later. UKI apologised for the oversight and 
sent him a cheque for £50 as compensation.     
Mr B complained to us on the grounds that UKI had reassured him time wouldnt affect his 
claim before confirming to him, several months later, that subsequent damage caused by the 
time that had passed wouldnt be covered. He also remained unhappy that UKI hadnt 
recorded his complaint when he first made it.    
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
He didnt think UKI was responsible for the delays in the repairs being carried out or that it 
had otherwise treated him unfairly.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings, saying UKI had failed to mention for 14 
months that it wouldnt cover any damage caused as a result of the time that had passed 
since the collision. The complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr Bs complaint stems in part at least from the actions of the third partys 
insurer. Those actions were carried out by a separate financial business unconnected with 
UKI for the purposes of this complaint. So, although the actions of that insurer have had 
some bearing on my decision, Ive focussed instead on the actions of UKI as Mr Bs insurer 
at the relevant time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
At the heart of Mr Bs complaint is the decision to delay the repair of his car and whether he 
did so on the advice of UKI. On the one hand, we have Mr Bs account of the events. He 
says he made the decision because UKI assured him time wouldnt affect his ability to claim 
for the losses suffered. Ive thought about this carefully.
Ive also reviewed UKIs notes of the calls between it and Mr B between November 2019 and 
January 2021. It seems the notes were made at the time and Ive no reason to doubt that 
they provide a broadly accurate reflection of discussions between the two parties during that 
period. With that in mind, I think its fair to say that the decision to delay the repairs was 
Mr Bs and that he wasnt unduly influenced by UKI. I say that because, for example, I can 
see nothing to indicate UKI told Mr B to delay the repairs or otherwise suggested that he 
should do so. On the contrary, as early as December 2019 it appears UKI told Mr B it 
wouldnt be able to issue legal proceedings against the other side until there was an outlay 
to recover. But Mr B confirmed he didnt want to have any repairs done until liability had 
been established.
UKI stressed the importance of having an outlay to recover to Mr B in a call of February 
2020. And, in a further call of August 2020, Mr B told UKI hed be in contact with it once he 
was in a position to have the repairs carried out.    
Overall, I think its arguable that UKI could have been clearer in its dealings with Mr B before 
January 2021 that, specifically, any additional damage caused to his car wouldnt be covered 
as part of the claim. But the evidence doesnt indicate to me that UKI was responsible in any 
way for Mr B deciding on the course of action he did. I think this is supported by Mr Bs 
comments in his complaint form to us, in which he said The reason we hadnt had the 
repairs done, apart from the guidance from [UKI] was due to the cost of the excess (£350). 
This suggests to me that Mr B was considering other factors before deciding what to do, not 
just UKIs advice.  
Not only that, but I made further enquiries of Mr B via the investigator and I understand the 
repairs have yet to be carried out  almost two years after the collision happened. Given that 
Mr B says he was relying on the advice of UKI, Im surprised that he still hasnt had the 
repairs carried out despite UKI giving him clear information on the issue in January 2021. 
Mr B says he continued to delay the repairs after that time pending the outcome of this 
complaint. But, again, I believe that was his decision and that he wasnt influenced by UKI in 
doing so.
In summary, I dont think I can fairly hold UKI responsible for the delay to the repairs or any 
possible resulting loss as Mr B claims.
Even if I were to find that UKI was responsible in some way (which I dont, for the reasons 
given), it would be difficult for me to make an award based on the available evidence. Thats 
because it hasnt been shown that additional damage has been sustained or, if it was, how 
much it would cost to repair.Regarding UKIs failure to log and deal with Mr Bs complaint when he first made it, I believe 
its offer of £50 as compensation for the inconvenience this caused was fair. I say that 
because I can see that UKI promptly apologised to Mr B on discovering its error and offered 
to put things right. So, I believe the inconvenience he experienced would have been 
relatively limited and that UKI neednt offer to pay him any more than it has.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman