DRN-4498502
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services 
treated him, when they ended a hire purchase agreement he had with them.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse to get a 
used car. The agreement was scheduled to last for around two years and under it, Mr M was 
contracted to make monthly payments of around £980. 
Just over a year later, the car was stolen while it was parked at a retail park. However, the 
car was recovered by the police and then impounded. Mr M paid for the cost of the 
impoundment, but the police kept the car for further investigation. 
Before Mr M was able to get the car back from the police, unfortunately, he suffered the 
bereavement of a close relative living overseas. So, in November 2021, Mr M travelled 
abroad to assist his family. 
While Mr M was away, the police had finished their investigation. And in January 2022, the 
police told Black Horse the car would be destroyed, if they didnt collect it. To avoid this from 
happening, Black Horse collected the car and took it to an auction house. They say they 
tried to contact Mr M, but didnt get a response. So, Black Horse decided to terminate Mr Ms 
agreement and made preparations to sell the car. 
Mr M says he couldnt return back to the UK when he planned to, because of travel 
restrictions imposed at the time, in light of the global pandemic. He says he wasnt able to 
return home to collect the car from the police until late February 2022. 
Once Mr M had returned home and found out Black Horse had collected the car, he says he 
tried to get it back. Mr M offered to pay the costs of the collection and storage, if Black Horse 
was able to reinstate his agreement. Black Horse wasnt prepared to do that and went on to 
sell the car. The proceeds of the sale satisfied the outstanding amount Mr M owed under the 
agreement, but Black Horse held him responsible for the collection and storage costs. 
Mr M complained to Black Horse and said they should have waited until he was able to get 
back to the UK. In their response to Mr Ms complaint, Black Horse said he had breached the 
hire purchase agreement, by allowing the car to be seized. They said they were able to 
terminate the agreement and hold Mr M responsible for the collection and storage costs. 
Mr M didnt accept Black Horses response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms case and initially found that Black Horse had 
treated Mr M fairly. However, after further discussion, Black Horse decided to offer Mr M a 
payment of £12,920.74 to settle his complaint. Mr M didnt accept Black Horses offer and 
said they should refund all the money he had paid to them while the agreement was in place, 
less the collection and storage costs. 
Because Mr M didnt accept Black Horses offer, his case has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
I sent Mr M and Black Horse my provisional decision on this case, on 24 November 2023. I 
upheld Mr Ms case and explained what I thought Black Horse should do to put things right. 
A copy of my provisional findings is included below:
This case is about a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse, which is a regulated 
financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it. 
The events leading to the sale of the car 
In their final response to Mr M, Black Horse said the car had been seized by the police and 
that meant Mr M had breached the terms of his agreement. Ive thought about this further to 
decide if Black Horse treated Mr M fairly. 
All the parties involved with this complaint agree that the car came to be impounded by the 
police, because it had been stolen. Mr M says the car was recovered by the police on the 
same day as the theft, but the police wanted to keep it for further analysis. 
Ive not seen any evidence or suggestion to show that the actions of the police, were down 
to something Mr M had done. Indeed, the evidence shows he was a victim of a crime, where 
the police needed to complete their investigation. 
Overall, I dont think the car was seized from Mr M in a way Black Horse could interpret that 
he had breached the agreement he had with them. So, I dont think it was fair for Black 
Horse to have terminated the agreement on this basis. 
There was also a suggestion from Black Horse, that Mr M had abandoned the car. They say 
he left it with the police from late November 2021, until he returned from abroad in late 
February 2022. 
While I agree that Mr M didnt contact the police or Black Horse during his time abroad, I can 
see that he maintained repayments due under the agreement throughout that time. He also 
paid the £290 storage costs, charged by the police. And Black Horses contact notes dont 
show any dissatisfaction or reluctance from Mr M to keep the car, in the weeks before he 
needed to travel abroad. Furthermore, the car was in a police compound, rather than an 
unknown third partys address or simply left with the dealer. 
So, I dont think Mr M abandoned the car, to an extent where Black Horse could assume he 
didnt want to continue with the hire purchase agreement. 
However, while I think Black Horse could have treated Mr M more fairly, I think Mr M could 
have done more during his time abroad to make Black Horse aware of his circumstances. 
Mr M says he didnt make any arrangements for someone to talk to the police on his behalf, 
or to monitor what was happening with the car. Additionally, he didnt make any contact with 
Black Horse or the police, in the two months he was away. 
I acknowledge that Mr M was dealing with some very sad personal circumstances while 
abroad. But, I think it would have been reasonable for him to have either arranged for 
someone to monitor the situation with his car, or to have regularly checked on what was 
happening himself. 
Black Horses records show they tried to call Mr M in late January 2022, after they were told 
by the police that they may dispose of the car. The car was subsequently taken to an auction 
house and stored. I think this was a reasonable step for Black Horse to have taken, as they wanted to stop the loss of their asset. 
In all the circumstances, I think Black Horse had the information available to look into Mr Ms 
situation further, before they decided to terminate his hire purchase agreement. I think Mr M 
could also have sought to keep Black Horse informed with what was happening and that 
may have widened the opportunity to sort things out on his return home. 
To help me decide what would have been fair and reasonable, once Mr M made Black Horse 
aware of his circumstances, Ive thought about the possible actions they could have taken. 
Black Horses options in February 2023 
By the time Mr M retuned from abroad and had made contact with Black Horse, the car had 
been collected from the police compound and taken to an auction house. Black Horse had 
added the collection and storage fees to the amount owed under the hire purchase 
agreement and had told Mr M the agreement would be terminated. 
But, it would be another three months before the car was sold at auction and the proceeds 
used to pay off the outstanding balance. So, I think there was a significant timeframe where 
Black Horse was able to consider the fairest outcome for both them and Mr M. 
Ive already found that Black Horse didnt treat Mr M fairly, when they looked to terminate the 
agreement following the time where the car was held by the police for analysis. So, Ive 
considered Mr Ms position during the three month timeframe, before the car was sold. 
Mr M has provided proof that he and other close family members went abroad in November 
2021. Hes also provided us with evidence to show where his planned returned date was 
changed, extending his trip into February 2022. On balance, Im persuaded by the 
unfortunate reasons why Mr M travelled from the UK and why he couldnt return when as 
planned. 
Black Horses records show that where upon discovering the car had yet to be sold, Mr M 
suggested that he would settle the outstanding amount due under the hire purchase 
agreement. This included the collection and storage fees that had been added by Black 
Horse. 
Overall, I think Black Horse were given reasonable explanations why the car may have been 
left with the police. I also think Mr M was efficient in trying to sort things out on his return and 
that he made a sensible offer to Black Horse, to get the car back. 
I can see where Black Horse may not have wanted to reinstate the hire purchase 
agreement. But, having considered everything, I think Black Horse were able to treat Mr Ms 
circumstances more fairly and prevent the car from being sold. I think it would have been fair 
and reasonable at this point to have returned the car to Mr M, in line with his offer to settle 
what he owed. 
The car at the centre of the complaint has since been sold. It then follows that returning the 
car to Mr M now, is not an option I can consider. So, Ive thought about how Black Horse can 
fairly settle Mr Ms case. 
The settlement to this complaint 
While we were investigating Mr Ms case, Black Horse made an offer to pay him £12,920.74 
to settle his complaint. Mr M declined this offer and said hed like a refund of all the 
payments hes made to Black Horse since the start of the hire purchase agreement. Including the deposit, I can see that Mr M paid around £25,000 to Black Horse. I can see he 
had use of the car for around 17 months, from September 2020 until February 2022. I think 
its fair for Mr M to pay for the usage hes had of the car, so I dont think Black Horse should 
refund all what hes paid. 
To think further about Black Horses offer, Ive considered the cost of leasing a car similar to 
the one Mr M had. Ive also thought about the monthly repayments due under the 
agreement. And while I recognise this wont be an exact comparison, I think its the fairest 
way to decide the cost of Mr Ms usage. 
Having done so, I can see the monthly cost of leasing a similar car is around the same as 
the monthly repayments Mr M made to Black Horse. On balance, over the 17 month period, I 
think the cost of Mr Ms usage of the car was around £16,000. 
Black Horses records show they collected the car from the police compound on 14 February 
2022 and took it to an auction house. They say they incurred a cost for collection and 
subsequent storage, which they added to Mr Ms outstanding balance. 
However, before making their recent offer to Mr M, Black Horse said theyre no longer 
looking to hold Mr M responsible for the collection and storage costs, So, should Mr M 
accept this settlement, I dont think there would be anything else for him to pay. 
Having considered all the evidence, I think Black Horses offer to pay Mr M £12,920.74 is fair 
and reasonable. The offer means Mr M would have paid a fair cost for the usage he had 
from the car, and that Black Horse wouldnt pursue him for any further payment relating to 
the collection and storage. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr Ms credit file has been effected by any adverse 
information. But, Im aware that Black Horse sent Mr M arrears letters when the agreement 
was terminated. Ive concluded that Black Horse didnt treat Mr M fairly, when they chose to 
terminate his agreement. I think Mr M was prepared to pay for the storage and collection 
costs, which were subsequently satisfied when the car was sold in May 2022. 
After careful consideration, I dont think Mr M should suffer from any adverse information 
Black Horse may have recorded with credit reference agencies, about the hire purchase 
agreement. So, I think its fair for Black Horse to remove any adverse information they may 
have registered on Mr Ms credit file. 
Lastly, I can understand where Mr M says he found it distressing when he returned home, 
from an already challenging situation, to find he couldnt access his car. And after three 
months of trying to find a solution with Black Horse, he needed to find alternative 
arrangements. 
While Mr M has suggested he found an alternative solution, I think he has been caused 
distress and inconvenience by Black Horse. So, I think they should make a payment to him 
in reflection of that. In all the circumstances, I think its fair that Black Horse pays Mr M £300 
for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced.
Both Black Horse and Mr M responded to the provisional decision and accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Both parties have accepted my provisional findings about how this complaint should fairly be 
resolved. So, I see no reason to come to a different conclusion.
Putting things right
For these reasons, Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services should: 
1. pay Mr M £12,920.74; 
2. remove any adverse information about the hire purchase agreement in Mr Ms name, 
from the records held with credit reference agencies; and 
3. pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Black Horse must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr M 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of the final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Black Horse deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr M, they should provide Mr M with 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Black Horse Limited trading as 
Land Rover Financial Services to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman