DRN-3579522
The complaint
Ms A has complained that Apple Retail UK Limited (Apple) mis-sold her a mobile phone 
finance package that didnt include the level of insurance cover that she wanted.
What happened
The background to Ms As complaint has been set out in detail by our investigator so I wont 
repeat it at length here. Briefly stated, Ms A says that when she purchased a new phone 
from Apple on 8 November 2021 on a finance package she discussed the insurance 
available for her phone that could be included within the package. 
She says she asked for the maximum insurance available, which wouldve covered loss and 
theft of her phone. This was the AppleCare+ with Theft and Loss policy. Her finance 
payment including this cover wouldve cost her an initial £69 followed by 20 further monthly 
payments of £75.95. 
When Ms A reported that her phone missing on 18 November 2021, Apple informed her that 
her policy didnt cover her for loss or theft. The insurance with the finance package shed 
actually entered into was the AppleCare+ policy which specifically excludes cover against 
loss and theft. It cost her an initial £69 with 20 further monthly payments of £73.45. 
The AppleCare+ policy clearly states, in bold type, the following:
AppleCare+ does not cover You for loss or theft of Your device, or for failure due to 
defects in Your device, although such failures will be covered separately either by 
Your rights under consumer law or the Apple Limited Warranty, or by Apple itself 
during the same period as the AppleCare+ Coverage Period even if You did not 
purchase or lease Your Apple product from Apple (as set out in clause 5.1.9).
The policy also states:
Your Policy is made up of this insurance document setting out the terms and 
conditions of Your coverage under AppleCare+ and Your POC certificate. Please 
check them carefully to make sure they give You the cover You want. If Your 
needs change or any of the information on which the Policy is based changes, 
Apple and AIG may need to update their records, and the details on Your POC 
certificate may need to be altered.
POC certificate means the proof of coverage document which You will receive 
when You purchase this Policy, which includes Your insurance details and the 
serial number of the Covered Equipment to which this Policy applies. If You have 
purchased this Policy in an Apple retail store or from an Apple Authorised 
Reseller, the original sales receipt may also be Your POC certificate.
Ms As purchase invoice from an Apple retail store, dated and timed at 18:49 on 8 November 
2021, provides the serial number of her phone and shows that she purchased AppleCare+. 
The loan document relating to her phones finance also refers to her having AppleCare+.
Apple has said that at the point of sale Ms A wouldve been presented with screens on a 
hand-held device at the pre-sale stage where all AppleCare+ options wouldve been visible. 
Its provided a screenshot of the relevant screen. Ms A wouldve been able to select the 
option she wanted and wouldve seen that AppleCare+ with Loss and Theft was an available 
option for £75.95 per month.
Ms A maintains that when purchasing her phone she was assured in-store that the insurance 
she was purchasing was the most extensive that was available. Ive listened to recordings 
made by Ms A including one that appears to have been recorded in-store and in which the 
sales agent tells Ms A that the monthly payment of £73.45 includes loss and theft. Apple has 
said this was incorrect information. But importantly, this recording appears to have been 
made by Ms A at 15:24 on 4 December 2021, after the purchase of her phone and after the 
date of its loss. 
Our investigator didnt consider that Apple had done anything wrong. Based on the
documentation available to her shed been unable to conclude that Ms A had been advised 
that the policy shed purchased included cover for theft and loss. The policy documentation 
confirms that Ms A purchased an AppleCare+ policy without cover for loss and theft. She 
hadnt seen any evidence that persuaded her that Apple had acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when the policy was sold. The policy documentation confirmed the scope of the policy. 
She didnt consider that Apple should take any further action. 
Ms A doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that her complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms As complaint and Ill give my reasons.
1) Apple has provided a screenshot of the insurance options that wouldve been offered 
to Ms A at the point of sale. Im satisfied that Ms A wouldve been made aware by 
Apple of the availability of different levels of cover and that finance with AppleCare+ 
with Loss and Theft was an option at £75.95 per month. 
 
2) Ms A relies upon a (covert) recording to suggest that when purchasing her phone she 
was led to believe (wrongly) that a monthly payment of £73.45 covered her for loss 
and theft, and this was the monthly payment she was making. But Ms A purchased 
her phone at 18:49 on 8 November 2021 and the recording was made at 15:24 on 4 
December 2021. The information this recording contained therefore could not have 
influenced Ms As decision on 8 November as to what level of insurance to take out. 
Ms A hasnt provided any evidence that she was told by Apple on 8 November that 
the comprehensive AppleCare+ with Loss and Theft was available for £73.45.
3) Ms A was provided with a purchase invoice and a financing agreement both of which 
refer to her purchasing AppleCare+ and not AppleCare+ with Loss and Theft.
4) Ms A has said that having cover for loss or theft was important to her. It was 
therefore incumbent on her to check that the policy met her needs and wishes. Her 
invoice from Apple contained a link to the AppleCare Terms and Conditions which 
wouldve directed Ms A to the AppleCare+ policy document. She has also confirmed 
receipt of the policy documents.  The policy document for AppleCare+ specifically states that loss and theft are excluded. The AppleCare+ IPID (Insurance Product 
Information Document) clearly states: 
What is not insured?  The policy does not cover your Apple device for loss or 
theft, normal wear and tear, intentionally-caused damage, fire or cosmetic 
damage which does not affect the functionality of the device.
I dont consider that this policy was mis-sold to Ms A. Ms A didnt take out this insurance on 
Apples recommendation. Ms A maintains she wanted the cover provided by AppleCare+ 
with Loss and Theft. As theres no record of what was said at the point of sale, I cannot say 
whether Ms A or Apple was responsible for Ms A only being covered by AppleCare+. 
But I do consider that it was clear from the sales invoice and the financing agreement that 
Ms A was going to be covered by AppleCare+. It was also clear from the policy documents 
that she received that the policy didnt cover loss and theft. Had she identified that this was 
the case, she couldve contacted Apple to correct the position and wouldve been fully 
covered following that correction.
So as I dont have any evidence that Apple is responsible for Ms A not purchasing the level 
of cover she says she wanted, Im not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman