DRN-4123830
The complaint
Mr A complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) declined his claim 
for storm damage.
What happened
Mr A made a claim on his home insurance policy for damage to his roof following a storm. 
He said that tiles had comes loose and that it had happened sometime over the preceding 
days. Advantage confirmed that storm damage was covered under the policy but didnt think 
there were storm conditions at the time of the damage. The claim was declined and Mr A 
complained to Advantage.
Advantage said it had checked the weather conditions around the time of the damage and 
that the highest wind speeds recorded were 40mph. It referred to its policy which defined a 
storm as a period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph. It didnt uphold Mr 
As complaint.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service as he thought that the damage to his roof was 
caused by a storm and that Advantage should repair it. Our investigator checked our own 
weather records and thought that there were storm force winds as there were wind gusts of 
47mph. He didnt think it fair for the claim to be declined for this reason and said that 
Advantage should consider Mr As claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.  
Advantage didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, we ask three questions: 
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld.  
The first question is whether there was a storm event around the time of the damage. In 
order to determine this, we look at weather records and reports  and any other available 
evidence. As Mr A doesnt know exactly when the damage was caused, I think it fair to look 
at the weather in the week leading up to the claim.
Advantages terms and conditions define a storm as a A period of violent weather defined 
as: wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55 mph, equivalent to storm force 10 on the 
internationally recognised Beaufort Scale) ..
Advantage declined Mr As claim because the wind speeds didnt reach 55mph. And while I 
can see that the windspeeds didnt reach 55mph, Im satisfied there were storm conditions 
on or around when the damage to Mr As home occurred. 
I say this because the weather reports Ive seen for the week leading up to when the 
damage was reported show wind gusts up to 52mph. On 10 January there were wind gusts 
of 48mph (our investigator said 47mph but I think this was a simple error), on 4 January of 
50mph, and on 6 January of 52mph. I think winds of these speeds can be considered storm 
force as they are generally thought to be strong enough to cause structural damage to 
buildings. Mr A also reports that his neighbours roof suffered similar damage during the 
same period.  
Advantage says that Mr A signed up to its terms and conditions  and that its not for me to 
say whether these conditions are fair. But my role is to look at all the evidence and 
determine what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each complaint. Advantage 
goes on to say that as different readings were obtained from two different weather records, I 
should take an average of these readings to determine whether there were storm conditions. 
However, I dont think this would be a fair approach as individual gusts of high wind can 
cause considerable damage. By taking an average, the impact of these gusts would be 
ignored. 
So, whilst I appreciate the wind speed didnt reach 55mph, Im satisfied, on balance, that 
storm conditions were present on or around the time the damage occurred to Mr As 
property.
When a claim is declined and there were storm conditions, I would usually go on to consider 
the damage caused and whether the storm was the main cause of that damage. However, I 
havent seen any evidence in relation to this from either Advantage or Mr A. Advantage 
declined Mr As claim as it didnt think there were storm conditions, but I dont think it 
considered the damage to the roof and what caused it. Ive seen no evidence of reports or 
inspections. Without this, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Advantage should 
accept Mr As claim for storm damage. 
In the circumstances, as I think there were storm conditions, I think it reasonable for 
Advantage to now consider Mr As claim for storm damage in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of his policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to consider Mr As claim in line with the remaining terms of his policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman