DRN-3937139
The complaint
Miss T complains about delays to a claim under her pet insurance policy with Great Lakes 
Insurance SE (Great Lakes).
References to Great Lakes include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Miss T had a pet insurance policy for her cat with Great Lakes. In November 2022 the cat 
unfortunately had to be euthanised and Miss T submitted a claim the following day (15 
November). She also provided further information to support the claim a few days later. 
From information on Great Lakes website, Miss T thought claims were paid within 48 hours. 
However her claim wasnt settled until the first day of December, after she had chased Great 
Lakes to see what the position with her claim was.
 
Unhappy at the time taken to settle her claim, Miss T complained to Great Lakes. But they 
didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said they received the claim on 15 
November 2022 but needed the cats vet history and the invoice supporting the claim to 
assess the claim. The vet history was received on 21 November and the claim settled and 
paid on 1 December. They recognised it was an upsetting time for Miss T with the loss of her 
cat and that shed like the time taken to pay the claim to have been quicker. While they 
accepted they could have been quicker at continuing with the claim (for which they were 
sorry) the claim was settled and paid within their three to five week timeframe, once all the 
necessary information had been received. 
Miss T then complained to this service. She was unhappy at the time taken to settle her 
claim, given what shed seen on the Great Lakes website about claims being paid within 48 
hours. Given what Great Lakes had told her about their policy being to pay claims within 
three to five weeks, she couldnt find any mention of this on the Great Lakes website or in 
her policy documents. Shed had to pay the bill herself and then chase Great Lakes to settle 
the claim. She wanted Great Lakes to acknowledge there was no mention of their payment 
policy on their website and apologise for what theyd done and ensure other policyholders 
didnt have to experience what had happened to her. She wanted them to pay claims within 
the [48 hour] timeframe set out on their website.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Great Lakes hadnt done anything 
wrong. The investigator noted the timeline of events from the claim being received, the 
request for further information, receipt of the information and payment of the claim. The 
investigator couldnt see reference to claims being paid within 48 hours on the Great Lakes 
website. And there wasnt a requirement for insurers to include details of the claims payment 
timeframe within policy documents (as this would very on a claim-to-claim basis). Overall, the 
investigator hadnt found any delays in the payment of the claim so concluded Great Lakes 
hadnt acted unreasonable in the time taken to settle and pay the claim.
Miss T disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint.  In disagreeing, she said Great Lakes only mentioned paying claims in 48 
hours and didnt stipulate any claims processing times anywhere in the policy documents. 
Her claim was only processed because she contacted them to question the delay and no 
reason was given for the delay. As they hadnt paid her claim within 48 hours then Great 
Lake was falsely advertising (their claims payment time).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Great Lakes has acted fairly towards Miss T. 
The main issue in Miss Ts complaint is the time taken to settle and pay her claim. Miss T 
says it took longer than the 48 hours timeframe she says was on the Great Lakes website 
and there are no references to claims processing times in the policy documents. Also, the 
claim was only paid when she contacted them to see what the position was. Great Lakes say 
they needed further information from Miss Ts vet and that  once it was received  the claim 
was settled and paid (ten days later). 
In considering both views, Ive first considered the timeline of events. Miss Ts cat was 
euthanised on 14 November and a claim was lodged on 15 November. Great Lakes 
requested the vet history and invoice, and this was received on 21 November. The claim 
was settled and paid on 1 December. I dont think it unreasonable for Great lakes to have 
requested further information from the vet, this is a common part of the process for 
assessing pet insurance claims. And between the date the information was received and the 
date the claim settled and paid, was a period of ten calendar days (eight working days).
 
While Miss T says this wasnt an acceptable timeframe (and she had to contact Great Lakes 
to see what the position was) I dont agree. Its right that insurers seek to assess and settle 
claims quickly, but equally they need to assess claims fairly, including having the necessary 
evidence and information to do so. I dont think a period of ten days (eight working days) 
from receipt of the information from the vet to settlement and payment is unreasonable.
Miss T says the Great Lakes website referred to paying claims within 48 hours. Shes not 
provided evidence of this statement (such as a screenshot) so I cant consider what it may 
have said (and whether it indicated an average time of processing, a target time, or whether 
there were any caveats or other qualifying statements). Great Lakes have provided an 
archived version of the page (from before Miss T made her claim) headed How long will it 
take to make a claim?. This doesnt mention paying claims within 48 hours. Given this, I 
cant conclude Great Lakes have made a misleading statement.
Looking at the current website, under a page how to claim theres a heading What 
happens next? which refers to Great Lakes getting to work sorting a claim as quickly as 
they can. And if they need more information they will contact the vet to get it. They will keep 
[you] updated by email or text when a claim is paid or if there are any delays. There arent 
any target times for settling claims. But I dont think the wording is misleading or 
unreasonable, given that individual claims will vary in terms of complexity, the supporting 
information (such as vet history).. 
For the same reason, I wouldnt expect the same kind of information to be set out in policy 
terms and conditions  looking at the policy document, Section 2.1 sets out How to make a 
claim and includes similar wording about Great Lakes aiming to handle all claims as quickly 
as possible. It doesnt include any specific targets or other timescales for assessing and 
paying claims. Given the inherent variability between claims, I dont think this unreasonable.
So, taking all these points into account, Ive concluded they havent acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss T in settling and paying her claim.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman