DRN-2254422
The complaint
Mr D complains Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, was not clear in the information it 
provided in relation to the cheque clearing process.  He also complains about the poor 
service he received.
What happened
Mr D complained to Halifax about the time taken to clear a cheque.  He said the website was 
not clear and he was given contradictory information over the phone when he rang with a 
query.
Halifax did not uphold his complaint. It said the website was clear  as was the advice 
provided by the adviser over the phone when Mr D had called.  And when Mr D complained 
about the poor service when dealing with his complaint, that wasnt upheld either.  However, 
Halifax paid him £200 in call costs and £95 for any distress and inconvenience caused by Mr 
D complaining.
Mr D then came to this service where our investigator looked into matters for him.  She (the 
investigator) didnt think she could as Halifax to do anymore and explained this in detail to Mr 
D.  But Mr D wasnt happy and asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, I agree with the investigator and for very much the same reasons.  As I 
said, the investigators reasoning was very detailed and explained to Mr D exactly why she 
wasnt going to be asking Halifax to do anymore.  I wont repeat the reasons she gave  
save to say that I agree with them.
I know Mr D had requested that his individual issues be responded to.  Ive thought about 
whether I need to repeat the investigators points and I dont think I do because they are 
already very clear.
In summary, I think the website is clear in terms of the process when banking a cheque and I 
dont think Mr D was given contradictory information.
I dont think the advisers on the phone dealt with his complaint in the way Mr D is suggesting 
and whilst I can see this process has had an impact on Mr D, I cant fairly say this was 
Halifaxs fault.
In terms of the address being used by Halifax to correspond with Mr D, I am satisfied that it 
was sending the correct address it had on file.  When Mr D amended this, I can see future 
correspondence was then sent to his new address.
So, Im afraid I have seen nothing to suggest that Halifax has been unfair or unreasonable in 
how it dealt with Mr Ds complaint.  In the circumstances, I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman