DRN-2213949
The complaint
Mr E complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) declined a payment he 
attempted on his credit card and then blocked his card. Hes also unhappy that Creation 
delayed contacting him to tell him why they had done this and to arrange for his card to be 
unblocked
What happened
In early February 2020, Mr E attempted to pay for goods using his Creation credit card. The 
transaction, which was to buy 40 items from an online retailer, was declined, and Creation 
blocked the card.
Mr E paid for the goods using another card but says that Creation didnt contact him to tell 
him why the transaction had been declined or that his card had been blocked. Mr E says he 
telephoned Creation on the day it happened as well as a week later and they told him the 
card transaction had been declined for security reasons. In the later call, Creation unblocked 
the card.
After Mr E complained to Creation in February 2020 about the lack of contact or reason for 
the decline, they issued a final response. They explained the transaction had been declined 
for security reasons and apologised for the inconvenience this caused. Creation said they do 
usually attempt to contact customers within 48 hours when this happens but explained this 
isnt always possible.
Mr E was unhappy with the final response from Creation and brought his complaint to this 
service. When he was first in contact, he said he thought the transaction had been in a shop 
and he felt embarrassed by what happened. To put things right, hed like Creation to explain 
what happened, apologise and pay him compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought Creation acted reasonably when 
they declined what their systems recognised as a potentially fraudulent transaction on his 
card.  And, whilst the investigator thought Creation should have contacted Mr E to explain 
why they had declined the transaction and then unblocked the card for him, the apology they 
provided was a fair and reasonable way to resolve this because the impact on Mr E of this 
delay had been minimal.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigator. He said that if he hadnt called Creation, he wouldnt 
have had his card unblocked. Mr E said he was embarrassed when his card was declined as 
he was with people at the time who saw what happened and this has affected his mental 
health. In response to the investigators view, he said he missed out on some of the goods he 
wanted to buy as they became out of stock. He also says that having the card declined and 
blocked added to his anxiety which made his depression worse.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and I think he set out matters clearly and 
thoroughly. So, whilst I agree that Creation took too long to contact him about the blocked 
transaction and card, I think theyve done enough to put things right by apologising to Mr E in 
this matter and I wont be asking them to do anything further to put things right. Ill explain 
why.
I understand that Mr E wanted to know more about why the card had been declined. But I 
dont think its unreasonable for a financial institution to have systems in place which 
automatically decline a transaction and block an account where they suspect fraud. Although 
I know it can be inconvenient, this is designed to protect consumers and so I dont think its 
unfair or unreasonable. Its right that a financial institution takes steps to protect their 
customers money. And, whilst I note that Creation hasnt given any further information what 
their level of security is in such cases or their trigger points, I think this is commercially 
sensitive information. If the details were shared, it could compromise the effectiveness of 
these measures, so I dont think its appropriate to ask Creation to provide this information to 
Mr E. 
So, I dont think Creation acted unfairly by declining Mr Es transaction and blocking his card 
where they had security concerns. And I wont be asking them to take any further action in 
this regard.
In their response to Mr Es complaint, Creation say that they try to contact a customer within 
48 hours if a transaction is declined, or a card blocked. In this case, Creation has apologised 
that they didnt do this here. 
I can see from the case notes provided by Creation and the testimony provided by Mr E, its 
not agreed who made the initial contact seven days after the transaction was declined. 
Although Creation says they made the call and the case notes support this, Mr E says he 
called them - though he hasnt been able to send us evidence of this from his phone. Mr E 
also thought he called Creation on the day as well but neither a party has any record of this.  
Even so, Creation accepts they didnt call Mr E within the 48 hours they say they aim to and 
couldve done better. Theyve apologised for this. Ive also considered that Mr E couldve 
contacted Creation sooner than he did and that a call was all that was needed to unblock his 
card.  So, taking everything into account, I consider the apology Creation has given is a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve this part of his complaint.
Finally, Ive looked at Mr Es comments in response to the investigators view. I note that he 
says he felt embarrassed when his card was declined, and this impacted his mental 
wellbeing. He also says he had to use another card to buy the items and some had gone out 
of stock. However, Ive already made a finding that Creation didnt do anything wrong when 
they declined the transaction and blocked his card due to concerns that it wasnt a genuine 
transaction. So, I dont think any impact the decline had on Mr E is something that the bank 
caused unfairly or unreasonably and would need to put right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Creation Financial 
Services Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 Paul Lawton
Ombudsman