DRN-4386629
The complaint
Ms K complains that following its own system error Fly Now Pay Later Limited (FNPL) added 
late payment fees to her account and recorded late payments and a default on her credit file.
What happened
Ms K took out an instalment payment plan with FNPL in August 2022. She made monthly 
payments towards this by way of a continuous authority for a card payment. 
Ms K incurred a late payment fee in November 2022 but other than that it seems her monthly 
payments were made without issue until FNPL had a technical glitch with its system, which 
meant it couldnt take the card payments. The glitch appears to have affected her January, 
February and March 2023 payments. Late payment fees were applied to her account for 
each these months and this was reflected on her credit file in the form of missed payments. 
Ms K says FNPL also issued applied a default to her credit file.
Ms K complained to FNPL on 30 April 2023 about the late payment fees and the adverse 
information on her credit file.  And on 1 May 2023 FNPL apologise and refund all the late 
payment fees on Ms Ks account including the one from November 2022. It didnt mention 
the adverse data on her credit file in its response to her, so Ms K contacted FNPL again on 
22 May to ask about this. FNPL later ask her to raise a dispute with the credit reference 
agency (CRA) that was showing the data to correct this.
Ms K then brought her complaint to this service  when doing so she said she was in the 
process of applying for a mortgage and the adverse data on her credit file was affecting this. 
Following bringing her complaint here Ms K settled the account and on 12 July 2023 she 
contacted FNPL asking them to remove the details of her account. FNPL said they did this 
on the same day and confirmed with one particular CRA that the records had been updated. 
The CRA confirmed this to FNPL in an email on 26 July.
Our investigator felt that while FNPL had put things right  it shouldnt have advised Ms K to 
raise a dispute with the CRA, when it should have amended the records. So recommended 
that it pay Ms K £75 to recognise the incorrect information it had given and the inconvenient 
it had caused Ms K. FNPL agreed with the investigators findings, Ms K did not. She said 
that because of the error she had had to take car finance on a much higher rate than she 
would have been able to secure, she also said she had lost employment as a result of the 
issue, so the matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. Having done so Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons, Ill explain.
Late fees 
Payments fell due on the account on the 23rd of each month, I can see Ms K made a 
payment of £60 on 30 January 2023, following FNPL writing to her on 25 January to advise 
her she had incurred a late payment charge of £12.
On 27 February Ms K asked FNPL to move her monthly payment date to the end of each 
month in line with her salary being paid. FNPL responded explaining it was too late for the 
February payment but could be applied from March onward, the message also explained as 
they were having system issues, she needed to pay that months payment by bank transfer. I 
cant see that Ms K made Februarys payment. 
FNPL emailed Ms K on 1 March explaining that the system was not working and that she 
would need to make her payment for that month by bank transfer. Ms K didnt make the bank 
transfer in March and made no further payment until 16 April 2023. 
Its not clear from either party if the late payment in January was as a result of the system 
error. But Im satisfied both February and Marchs payments were impacted by the error. I 
cant say I agree Ms K was totally unaware of the issue as she was received a letter about a 
late payment fee on 25 January, was told by chat message on 27 February and by email on 
1 March. Although the communications in January and February were after the monthly 
payment date, she was given fair warning for Marchs payment and so could have mitigated 
this late payment fee. Nevertheless, I agree that it was fair for FNPL to refund at least 
February and Marchs fees as the email did say no late payment fess would apply, that 
related to the system glitch. The fees from November and January are less clear, but FNPL 
agreed to refund those too, so I think that was fair and go some way to compensating Ms K 
for the inconvenience of having to pay by a different format.
Default
Ms K has provided a document titled Notice of Default sums to support what she says, that 
FNPL registered a default
I think it might be helpful to first explain to Ms K that a notice of default sum is not the same 
as having a default registered on your credit file. It is a notice that a business has to send to 
its customer to advise them if they are going to incur a late payment fee. 
I can understand how this might be confusing, but the evidence Ms K has provided, is such a 
notice, and does not support that a default was registered against her. FNPL has confirmed 
no default was registered and I have seen nothing to suggest otherwise, so Im satisfied this 
is the case.
Credit file and wrong information
Ms K has provided screenshots showing FNPL incorrectly recorded late or missed payments 
on her credit file. When she raised this with it, FNPL should have corrected their records and 
updated the credit reference agencies. But instead, it told Ms K to raise the dispute herself, 
this was poor customer service. Ms k initially pointed this issue out to FNPL when she 
complained to it on 30 April 2023, and it took until 26 of July for it to confirm this had been 
corrected. So, I think its fair that it should compensate her for this error and delay. When thinking about compensation here Ive considered that Ms K has made various 
arguments as to her losses  throughout her complaint. She has told us she was applying for 
a mortgage, she said she had to take a higher rate car finance product and said she had lost 
employment. But I have seen no evidence to support any of these claims. And even if Ms K 
had provided more supporting evidence, not only would it have needed to be something 
definitive from the lenders or employers showing the late payment markers on her credit file 
were the only reason she had been declined credit, offered it on different terms or declined 
work. I would also have had to have seen that Ms K had provided evidence to those 
companies that she was disputing the information and that the said companies would not 
take it into account.  
I have also taken into account that Ms K could have mitigated some of the late payments 
and even though she was aware of the first late fee on 25 January, she didnt make any 
complaint to FNPL until 30 April, and she also chose not to make payments for February and 
March even once she was aware of the FNPL system glitch.
Ive also considered that FNPL refunded all four late fees when its only clear that two are a 
result of glitch. Given all of this I think that £75 is a fair reflection of the inconvenience 
caused to Ms K. 
Putting things right
Fly Now Pay Later Limited should now pay Ms K £75 for the inconvenience caused to her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and now 
require Fly Now Pay Later Limited to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting 
things right section of this decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman