DRN-4456288
The complaint
Mr M complains that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited (Quilter) received trail 
commissions on his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) despite it never telling him it had 
taken over his plan or offering or providing him with advice. He wants the commission 
refunded with interest and compensation for the inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr M was advised to transfer to Standard Life by his financial adviser, Mr R in 2006. Mr Rs 
firm was directly authorised by the then regulator the FSA. In July 2009 Mr R became an 
appointed representative of a firm called Positive Solutions, with his own firm closing down. 
In 2020 Positive Solutions rebranded to become Quilter.
Mr M says the transfer to Standard Life was on the basis that Mr R would receive a 3% 
upfront commission and an ongoing commission of 0.5% p.a. According to the suitability 
letter provided the ongoing commission would meet;
the costs of ongoing administration. This will also cover the cost of any meetings 
required to reaffirm your position with regards to the pension fund.
With the meetings to take place annually or every six months if Mr M preferred. The 
suitability letter also said that Mr R Would rely upon you to contact me to arrange these 
meetings. Mr M says he last spoke with Mr R following a sharp fall in the value of his fund in 
around 2010/11. He says he decided to leave things to see if the value recovered. It was left 
that Mr M would contact Mr R when he was ready.
Mr M says he only became aware Quilter were involved with his plan and were receiving the 
commission when he made enquiries with Standard Life about his plan in 2021. He 
instructed Standard Life to stop paying the 0.5% commission in April 2021, before 
transferring his plan in October 2021 to Aviva. He complained to Quilter. He said it had never 
contacted him to tell him it was involved, had never provided him with advice and he hadnt 
authorised it to act for him. He said it should repay the commission it had received with 
interest and pay him compensation.
Quilter didnt accept the complaint. It said as his SIPP was taken out before 31 December 
2012 it predated the FCAs Retail Distribution Review (RDR), which had abolished 
commission. It said the ongoing commission being paid usually came from product charges 
which Mr M had authorised when he took the plan out, so it wasnt refundable. It said it had 
no record of any post RDR agreement for it to provide Mr M with ongoing advice. It said the 
letter from Mr Rs old firm had said it would be for Mr M to arrange any meeting. It also said 
regardless of these points it believed Mr M had brought his complaint too late. Because it 
was both more than six years since Mr Rs firm had arranged the plan and more than three 
years since Mr M should have reasonably known he had grounds to bring a complaint.  
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. He said the commission paid to Quilter had 
depleted his fund and as he wasnt aware it was involved; he couldnt request it to review his 
plan. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, she said it had been brought in time and could be 
considered by our service, but she didnt uphold it.
She said Mr Ms SIPP began before RDR came into operation in January 2013. This had 
abolished commission and required any ongoing fees to be in return for agreed services. 
However, she said this hadnt affected existing products paying ongoing or trail commission 
and advisers could still receive this, and it wasnt refundable.
Mr M disagreed. He said our investigator had ignored the original contract hed had with Mr 
R which was that he would provide ongoing advice. Mr M said he was dealing with one 
adviser not a large firm like Quilter, who he didnt know were involved. He said he wasnt 
aware how RDR affected the original contract, but other financial institutions he dealt with 
did advise him about changes in terms and conditions. 
Our investigator said her view hadnt changed and she couldnt comment on the legality of 
the contract Mr M says he had with Mr R.
As Mr M doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 27 October 2023; I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
I think this is a complaint that our service can consider. Mr M is complaining about Quilters 
failure to advise him it was involved with his policy. He wasnt aware of this until 2021 and he 
made his complaint the same year, so within three years of when he became aware of the 
issue. 
I understand Mr Ms annoyance about what has happened here. When RDR came into force 
it didnt abolish pre-existing trail commission payments. And any existing trail commission 
payments could also be re-registered to a new advisory firm. But for new arrangements 
commission could no longer be paid, being replaced by adviser charges which needed to be 
specifically agreed by the client. 
Pre RDR commission can be a difficult area. It was generally an agreement between the 
product provider and the advisory firm rather than between the consumer and the product 
provider. Effectively it was a payment from the provider to the adviser for introducing the 
business to it. There was no requirement that the advisory firm would provide ongoing 
services in return for trail commission payments, although many offered to do so. Ongoing or 
trail commission was often, but not always, paid from the product charges the provider 
made. This might mean that product charges might not be reduced if it wasnt paid. But post 
RDR some product providers would reduce charges if the plan holder asked for trail 
commission to be stopped. And, trail commission could also be paid from a separate 
additional charge on top the providers own charges. Which would be cancelled if the plan 
holder requested it. 
Mr M says the last time he spoke with Mr R was around 2010/11. This was after Mr R had 
become an appointed representative of Quilter. It doesnt appear Mr M tried to contact Mr R 
subsequently, as he was dealing with Standard Life directly when he was told of Quilters 
involvement and requested that the payments be stopped. 
Mr Ms agreement was with Mr R, and it does appear he never heard from Quilter. It says 
there was no agreement pre or after RDR with Mr M. Quilter had provided very little information about its dealings with Mr M, basically just some copy valuation statements from 
Standard Life which had been sent to its head office. It said it hadnt assumed any 
responsibility for the advice Mr R provided before he joined it. But I thought it was unusual 
that Quilter had never contacted Mr M.  
So, I asked Quilter how it came to be the agent on Mr Ms policy. There are broadly two 
possibilities here. First, Mr M could have completed a letter of authority formally transferring 
the advisory relationship to Quilter. Or, second there could have been a novation of Mr Rs 
existing client bank to Quilter when he joined it. A novation is a process where a product 
provider internally moves clients of one advisory firm to another. Usually, clients should be 
informed that this is happening, so they have chance to opt out of it if they want to, it might 
have been Mr Rs responsibility to do this. But either way Quilter hasnt been able to provide 
any records other than a few annual statements noted above, or I think, a proper explanation 
about what happened. It said:
There was no novation or change to Mr Ms relationship with Mr R, he remained as 
his client, it was only Mr Rs authorisation status that changed, and the redirection of 
the pre-agreed commission payments to Positive Solutions. 
So, Quilter seems to be suggesting it was not involved, which I dont think is reasonable. I 
think this because Mr M appears to have discussed his plan with Mr R after Mr R had joined 
Quilter. And there isnt any record that Mr M had been advised about or agreed to this 
change. Nor is there any evidence that Quilter told Mr M that Mr R had left it in 2012. Or, that 
it appointed any of its other advisers to his account after this. 
And whilst there might have been no requirement for Quilter to provide services in return for 
the trail commission paid to it, I dont think it has treated Mr M fairly. I say that because whilst 
RDR allowed existing trail commission payments to continue, the intention was that RDR 
would increase the transparency and fairness of adviser fees and the services offered in 
return for them. And whilst RDR had a specific start date regulated firms have to adhere to 
the regulators overarching principles. The regulators handbook sets out 11 principles 
including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which was clear fair and not misleading. 
And the Financial Services Authority issued a policy statement (PS12/12) in respect of RDR 
which I think re-enforces the factors firms needed to consider. It said, with my emphasis in 
bold:
We also received requests for clarification on the following points 
Advisers should be required to remind clients of trail commission they are receiving 
and discuss with them why an existing product may be better than a cheaper post -
RDR alternative which does not pay commission  The Consumer Panel and one 
insurer suggested that communications to a customer should cover existing trail 
commission on a product. We have not added specific guidance on this point, as 
we consider the overarching requirements in COBS 4.2.1R for communications 
to be clear, fair and not misleading and Principle 6 require firms to deal openly 
and honestly with their clients.As theres no evidence that Quilter ever contacted Mr M, let alone consider the issue 
highlighted above I dont think it treated him fairly or communicated with him in an open and 
honest manner. So, it didnt comply with either Principle six or seven. And whilst Quilter 
appears to be suggesting any communication failure was due to Mr R, as he was its 
appointed representative it is actually Quilter that is responsible for what did or didnt 
happen. And as it has been able to produce annual statements for Mr Ms plan which were 
sent to its head office, it cant claim it had no knowledge of the arrangement.   
Regardless of what happened when Mr M became Quilters client, I think it should have at 
least contacted him in December 2012 to advise him that Mr R had left. Had it, I think its 
highly likely that Mr M would have reappraised the position. It might be that at that point an 
agreement could have been reached with Quilter that one of its other appointed 
representatives, local to Mr M, could have advised him. If Mr M couldnt agree acceptable 
terms for that advice, he might have moved his plan to another advisory firm. Or, as he did in 
April 2021 instruct Standard Life to stop paying the trail commission. If doing that wouldnt 
have reduced the charges on the plan, Mr M might have explored transferring to a plan with 
lower charges. 
So, I asked Standard Life what happened with the plan when Mr M asked it to stop paying 
trail commission to Quilter. It said that the commission that was being paid was fund based 
renewal commission (FBRC) paid for by disinvestments from his plan each March. It said 
Mr M had transferred his plan in October 2021, but if he hadnt there would have been no 
further disinvestments for the FBRC. That means this was an explicit additional charge 
rather than something paid out of Standard Lifes own product charges. Which means the 
charges on Mr Ms plan would have been reduced by 0.5% per annum.
That means there would have been no need for Mr M to transfer his plan to reduce the 
existing charges after Mr R left Quilter in 2012.The relevant date I think, because after this 
there was no prospect of being able to contact Mr R if hed needed to. And I think its likely 
that the extra charges Mr M continued to pay have resulted in financial losses for him. If 
Quilter had dealt openly and honestly with Mr M I dont think these costs would have been 
incurred.  
Standard Life have provided a schedule of the commission deducted from Mr Ms plan since 
outset. The renewal commission totalled £1,916.37 of which £1,177.53 appears to have 
been paid after Mr R left Quilter in December 2012. So, it does seem likely that Mr M has 
suffered losses as a consequence of what has happened, and he should be put back into 
the position he should have been in. I also think Mr M has been inconvenienced, but as he 
wasnt aware of the issue until shortly before he complained I think the distress suffered is 
relatively minor. But it is fair that he also be compensated for this.
I then set out how I thought Quilter should calculate and pay compensation to put Mr M back 
in the position he should have been in. And also that it should pay him £75 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. 
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they would like me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decision
Mr M accepted my decision but said he was owed a greater refund as he had two plans with 
Standard Life on which Quilter was receiving renewal commission. He provided a further 
document from Standard Life confirming the commission payments on the second plan. He 
also provided a letter from Standard Life confirming the basis under which his plans came under Quilters agency, which was by novation. He asked for clarification on the tax 
treatment of any compensation payment as he was concerned about a double tax penalty if 
this wasnt paid into his current pension plan. He said as he was over age 75 his current 
pension provider had advised there wouldnt be any tax relief on a payment made to it. 
Quilter didnt accept my decision. It said Mr M had agreed the trail commission pre RDR to 
pay for the initial advice over the life of the plan. It said Mr Ms arrangement was with Mr R, 
not with it and it had no obligation to provide any service or to advise that Mr R had left 
Quilter. It said if Mr R hadnt left Quilter the trail commission would still have been paid, and 
in any case its involvement was moot as Mr M hadnt tried to contact Mr R.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
I can see that when Mr M first complained to Quilter it sent him a form to complete and set 
out the details of his complaint. On this he entered both Standard Life plan numbers. I also 
note that the limited information Quilter sent our service about the complaint included an 
annual statement for one plan from 2010 and from 2012 for the other. The plan numbers 
correspond to the commission information now provided by Standard Life. Im satisfied that 
Mr M has complained about both Standard Life plans and that the rejection of his complaint 
by Quilter is in respect of both.
Before setting out why I think the complaint should be upheld, Ill clarify how any 
compensation due could work for Mr M. Any loss arising from commission payments unfairly 
deducted from the plans needs to be calculated. Compensation for this can either be paid 
into Mr Ms existing plan or directly to him if that isnt possible or desirable. If compensation 
was to be paid to his pension, any money he subsequently takes out may be subject to 
income tax. 
If the compensation was instead paid directly to Mr M, it wouldnt be subject to income tax 
(although any interest might be). Thats why it is fair that any payment paid to him directly is 
notionally reduced to allow for this, so he ends up with the same net amount as if hed taken 
the money out of his pension. So, there wont be a double tax hit if any compensation due 
is paid directly to Mr M.   
Having considered the new evidence I note that contrary to what Quilter has said Standard 
Life confirmed Mr Ms plans were moved to its agency by novation. Standard Life said:
Novation is the discharge of rights and obligations between contracting parties and a 
recreation of them in a new contract between a third party (replacing an original 
contracted party) and the remaining contracting parties to the original contract.  
Novation is commonly used in the financial services industry. My understanding is that all 
parties affected must agree to it. So, Mr Rs firm, Quilter and Mr M in this case. What would 
normally happen is that the existing firm would write to its clients advising it was joining, 
merging, selling out, and so on with or to a new firm and that existing plans would be 
novated over. Unless the client didnt want this to happen, in which case they were asked to 
get in touch. So, a type of implied consent. 
 
As Mr M knew nothing about Quilter and asked Standard Life how his plans had come under 
its agency, I dont think he was made aware of the novation. If so, Quilter perhaps had no right to ever receive any payment from Standard Life. But if there was a novation, then it 
seems to me Mr M was Quilters client. So, its surprising that it doesnt know how his plans 
came under its agency. Because as well as receiving commission it was also being sent 
annual valuation statements by Standard Life. 
So, from the evidence available, I think Quilter should have sent its terms of business and 
other details to Mr M. Whilst this might have been Mr Rs immediate responsibility, Id expect 
there to be some record of this. Because once Mr R was an appointed representative (AR) 
of Quilter, it was responsible for his activity, something I think it seeks to ignore here. Ive 
already set out the regulators Principle 6 and 7 in my provisional decision and wont repeat 
these here. But they require that Mr M be treated fairly and also communicated with clearly. 
This didnt happen. Had it, he might have moved his plans to another adviser or took some 
other action. Quilter also ignores the regulators policy statement (PS12/12), which expected 
firms to consider whether products paying renewal commission remained appropriate. 
So, I think Quilters argument that Mr M was never its client and it could just keep these 
ongoing payments is flawed. But it also states these payments were part of the original initial 
commission payable when Mr R set the plan up and agreed by Mr M. This isnt correct 
either. As from the written evidence, it is categorically clear that Mr M didnt agree the 
ongoing payment was for the initial setting up of the plan. 
They were a variable amount based on the current value and deducted directly from the 
plans in addition to Standard Lifes own charges. And Standard Life would have stopped 
making the deduction at any time had Mr M requested it  as it did in April 2021. I asked 
Standard Life about the ongoing payments, it said these were Fund Based Renewal 
Commission (FBRC) which;
as an ongoing charge, it would be expected that the level of FBRC would be agreed 
between the IFA and their client as remuneration for the ongoing service that the IFA 
was providing.
So, exactly what Mr M thought the charge was for. It clearly isnt part of any initial 
commission for the original advice. It was specifically for the additional services agreed. So, 
whether Mr M was Quilters client or not, there was no right for Mr Rs firm or then Quilter to 
continue to receive these payments just by virtue of the plan having been set up back in 
2006. And, once Mr R had left Quilter, these services couldnt be provided unless it 
appointed another adviser to Mr Ms plans, and it didnt do that. As Quilter never contacted 
Mr M to advise him Mr R had left, he had no ready means to contact it. So, I dont think that 
was treating him fairly. And as it wasnt entitled to receive the FBRC by virtue of the initial 
advice, I think its fair that it refunds the payments it received after Mr R left as there was no 
prospect of the ongoing services being provided. 
   
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr M back into the position he should have 
been in. Quilter must;
Establish the number of additional units that both Mr Ms Standard Life plans would 
have held when he transferred in October 2021 and what their values would have 
been if the FBRC hadnt been paid to it after December 2012. 
It should then calculate what the additional fund values would now be worth had they 
been transferred to the Aviva plan in October 2021. That is Mr Ms loss, which should 
be compensated.The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ms Aviva pension plan. 
The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into his pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
When benefits are paid from a pension plan, they provide a taxable income. So, 
adjusting the compensation to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid ensures the compensation is a fair amount. It isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
As Mr M could have taken a tax-free cash entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement. Mr M has confirmed he is a basic rate taxpayer. So, making a notional 
reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
If there is any delay between Quilter completing these calculations and making 
payment to either Aviva or Mr M as appropriate. It should calculate interest at 8% per 
year simple on the loss figure it has arrived at from the date of calculation until the 
date it pays the compensation and pay this interest to Mr M. 
If Quilter considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M a certificate showing this if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Provide Mr M with a simple calculation of how it arrived at the final figures.
Quilter should pay Mr M £75 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered as a 
result of its error.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited.
I direct Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited to undertake the calculations set out 
above and pay any compensation due as described. 
I further direct Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited to pay Mr M £75 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman