DRN-4500196
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly 
declined their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes. They booked a 
trip and were on their way to the airport in December 2022, where they became stuck in 
traffic due to an accident and subsequently missed their flight. There were no alternative 
flights available until the new year and so they had to return home.
Mr and Mrs W made a claim for the costs of the holiday, but Great Lakes said their 
circumstances werent covered under the terms of the policy. Mr and Mrs W complained and 
unhappy, referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Great Lakes had treated Mr and 
Mrs W unfairly as it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and felt that Great Lakes should have offered them some 
compensation for the situation they found themselves in. They said they bought the 
insurance in good faith, expecting that they would have protection in exceptional 
circumstances.  
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The background is well known to both parties as set out by our investigator, so I 
wont repeat everything here again. Instead, I will focus on what I consider to be the 
key facts.
The policy terms under the missed departure section say the following is covered: 
Your reasonable and necessary additional travel and accommodation expenses 
(room only) of a similar standard to the original booking, to allow you to reach your 
trip destination or catch up on your scheduled itinerary (for missed departure on your 
outward journey)  
This means Mr and Mrs W were covered for additional costs they would have 
incurred in getting to their destination. But Mr and Mrs W were unable to get to their 
destination as there were no alternative flights until the new year. This means they 
didnt incur any costs (as they couldnt get to their destination) and so there was 
nothing for Great Lakes to pay under this section. 
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Great Lakes hasnt provided any payment at all as 
they were unable to travel to their destination due to no fault of their own. 
Insurance companies are entitled to specify the circumstances in which they will pay 
a benefit and set out the risk they are prepared to cover. There is no cover for Mr and 
Mrs W to obtain a refund for the missed holiday. There is no other relevant cover or 
section in the terms which provides a benefit or compensation in their circumstances. 
I realise Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed by my decision and I am sorry that they 
werent able to go on their planned holiday. But I cant fairly ask Great Lakes to pay 
them any benefit under the terms of the policy and I cannot direct it to provide a 
goodwill gesture. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman