DRN-2055879
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) failed to repair his boiler over the 
course of a year.
What happened
Mr D had a HomeCare Four boiler policy with BG. He had already raised a complaint with 
BG about its failure to repair his boiler and that matter had been settled. I wont be 
addressing that further here.
A few months later, Mr D reported to BG that he had a problem with his boiler again. Over 
the next eight months, BG attempted repairs to Mr Ds boiler on around 12 different 
occasions until it identified and repaired the fault. 
Mr D complained about the time it had taken and the number of appointments needed to 
identify and fix the fault. BG apologised and paid £50 by way of apology. However, Mr D 
didnt think the payment was enough because:
the engineer said the fault was identified six months earlier;
Mr D had to buy heaters to warm his home;
he incurred additional electricity costs using the heaters;
Mr D and his wife had to reschedule appointments to fit in with BG appointments, and 
they were often without hot water and heating.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint. She thought BG had taken too long to fix the boiler 
and that it wouldve caused significant inconvenience to Mr D, especially as it was aware of 
his vulnerability. Our investigator thought that compensation of £200, in addition to the £50 
already paid, was reasonable.
 
BG didnt agree. It acknowledged the inconvenience that repeated engineer visits wouldve 
caused and increased its offer of compensation to an additional £100. But it didnt think £200 
wasnt warranted.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
When Mr D brought his complaint to our service, his boiler was working. So my decision is 
about whether BG handled his claim fairly over the eight month period that his boiler was 
broken.
Mr D reported the boiler fault to BG in the earlier part of the year and its engineers visited on 
three consecutive months. After a four month gap, during mainly summer months, BG 
attended on six further occasions before it repaired the boiler.
Ive looked at the policy to see whether BG handled Mr Ds claim in line with the terms and 
conditions. The policy says:
What is insured?
Unlimited repairs to your gas central heating system, including boiler and controls 
and gas supply pipe
So, Im satisfied that BGs repeated attempts to fix the boiler were in line with the terms. 
Ive also noted that the terms and conditions state:
Making repairs:
If the fault is related to one weve fixed for you in the last twelve months, then you 
wont have to pay an additional excess or fixed fee. Our engineer will use their expert 
judgement to decide whether a fault is related to an earlier fault or not.
The focus for me, here, is that the engineer will use their expert judgement to determine 
whether a fault is related to an earlier one. Thats because, in the engineers notes from 
when the boiler was fixed, the engineer refers to the repair done six months earlier. It 
appears that the leak was identified then, and BG carried out, what seems to be, two 
identical repairs. But its clear that the repair hadnt fully fixed the problem, and that meant 
Mr Ds boiler broke down again, leading to loss of hot water and heating during winter 
months. 
BG rightly says it didnt cause the fault, and the benefit of the policy is that it will carry out a 
repair. But I dont think its reasonable that the same type of repair needed to be done on 
more than one occasion, and I dont think Mr D wouldve expected it to take as long as it did. 
Given his vulnerability I think BG couldve done more to make sure it completed a lasting 
repair to his boiler much sooner. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence shows BG couldve repaired Mr Ds boiler sooner 
than it did. BG accepts that its service fell short on this occasion, but it thinks compensation 
of £100, in addition to the £50 already paid, is enough. I dont agree. Mr D is a vulnerable 
customer and he was left without heating and hot water during winter months. While I realise 
BG wasnt responsible for the boiler breaking down, it was responsible for fixing it in line with 
the terms of the policy. I also realise the policy doesnt say how quickly BG should complete 
a lasting repair, but I think its reasonable to assume that eight months, and 12 
appointments, is too long. Im satisfied that an additional award of £200 is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. British Gas 
Insurance Limited must:pay Mr D £200, in addition to the £50 already paid, by way of apology for the time 
taken to fix his boiler and for the inconvenience and upset he experienced as a 
result.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman