DRN-3257531
The complaint
Mr A is a sole trader. Hes unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down a claim he made on 
his landlords insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A has landlords insurance with AXA covering premises he leases out on a commercial 
basis. The policy includes legal expenses cover. In March 2021 he made a claim on the 
policy as he said the tenants hadnt paid their rent and were in breach of the lease.  He 
wanted the policy to assist in remedying those issues. 
AXA asked Mr A for information on the credit checks hed carried out on the tenants. Mr A 
provided details of this but AXA said it didnt meet the requirements contained in the policy. 
So it turned down his claim. 
Our investigator noted the policy didnt cover claims where the terms as they relate to 
referencing hadnt been met. In this case the credit referencing information showed both 
tenants had failed the checks that were carried out. She noted Mr A had obtained rent in 
advance as security but didnt think that met the terms of the policy and thought AXA had 
acted fairly in turning down the claim. 
Mr A didnt agree. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the legal expenses section of Mr As policy. I think 
the only part that could potentially provide cover for this claim is the tenant eviction section. 
That covers advisers costs to pursue eviction proceedings against a tenant or guarantor to 
recover possession of the property where the tenant fails to perform his obligations set out in 
the tenancy agreement relating to the rightful occupation of the property.
However, it goes on to explain it wont cover claims where you fail to provide evidence that 
you successfully completed a tenant reference on the tenant (and guarantor if required) prior 
to the start of the tenancy agreement. 
The policy explains that for a commercial tenant whats required for a tenant reference is A 
full comprehensive referencing check showing a pass on the tenant and guarantor must be 
obtained from one of [policy administrators] approved tenant referencing companies. 
In this case I can see Mr A did obtain a referencing check on both tenants which appears to 
be from one of the approved referencing companies. But both tenants failed those checks. In 
one case the check found adverse information in the name of this applicant. For the other 
the check concluded this applicant has insufficient income to cover the required monthly 
rental. In both cases the report said this person is not suitable to undertake the required 
tenancy without the support of a suitable guarantor. It said one tenant was a high risk and 
the other was a moderate risk.  
I havent seen anything to show Mr A did obtain a guarantor for these tenants. And the policy 
says both the tenant and guarantor must pass the referencing checks. That clearly hasnt 
happened here. So Im satisfied the requirements set out in the policy havent been met. And 
while Mr A says his broker never told him what was required thats something hed need to 
pursue as a separate complaint against that business. 
Ive gone on to think about whether its fair of AXA to turn down the claim because the policy 
requirements werent met. I note Mr As claim against the tenants has a number of different 
elements. He says they hadnt paid their rent but that they were also in breach of their lease 
because theyd sub-let part of the property and made changes to it without consent. 
Ive taken into account that the relevant law (the Insurance Act 2015) says its for the insured 
to show non-compliance with a term couldnt have increased the risk of the loss which 
actually occurred (in the circumstances in which it did).
I think it was fair of AXA to turn down the eviction claim for non payment of rent. I appreciate 
that claim coincided with lockdown restrictions imposed as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. However, from the correspondence Mr A sent to the tenant it appears their 
difficulties in paying the rent had been ongoing for some time and included periods where 
there were more limited government restrictions on their business operating. I also note in 
correspondence with the tenants Mr A didnt accept these issues should have impacted on 
their ability to pay the rent given the other support that was available to them. 
As a result, while I appreciate the pandemic may have exacerbated issues the tenants were 
facing, I cant say it was the cause of them, The evidence from the credit checks indicates 
the tenants were an unacceptable risk from the outset and that for one tenant their income 
was insufficient to cover the monthly rent. 
So I think non-compliance with the policy term did increase the risk of the loss which actually 
occurred to the insurer in the circumstances in which it did. And I think its fair of AXA to 
have turned down this part of the claim.
Ive also thought about whether AXA also acted fairly in turning down cover for the other 
elements of the claim Mr A made. It told us the referencing check didnt just cover credit 
related issues but other matters which would have been relevant to these issues. And having 
reviewed the information from the referencing agency I think thats reasonable. 
These were tenant referencing checks rather than just credit checks. And I can see in 
addition to financial information the reference includes details of the residential history of 
both tenants. In one case the reference says it couldnt confirm a previous address given by 
the tenant and found they werent on the tenancy agreement or mortgage for their current 
property (which theyd only lived at for a year). That suggests that there may have been 
wider concerns about this tenant which led to them failing the check and being assessed as 
high risk. As set out above its for Mr A to show that non-compliance with the term couldnt have 
increased the risk of the loss occurring (in the circumstances in which it did). In relation to 
that Mr A said he obtained a security deposit. But while that potentially provided protection 
against a loss he might incur I dont see it significantly reduced the risk to AXA of it incurring 
costs in pursuing eviction proceedings against the tenants. 
As a result I dont think it was unfair of AXA to decline this element of his claim either. If Mr A 
is able to provide further evidence which shows the non-compliance didnt increase the risk 
of the loss occurring Id expect AXA to consider it. But on the basis of the evidence hes 
supplied to date I think it acted fairly in turning down the claim he made. 
Mr A has also made some comments about a separate claim hes made to AXA which 
relates to action the local authority is taking against him (in relation to encroachment at the 
property which this complaint relates to). However, that isnt something Im considering in 
this decision. As our investigator explained if Mr A is unhappy with the progress of that claim 
thats something which will need to be looked at as part of a separate complaint.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman