DRN-3552052
The complaint
Mr P complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited mishandled his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from 30 January 2020, Mr P had his car insured on a policy with Admiral. Mr P 
was the policyholder. The policy also covered three other family members including Mr Ps 
sister (but not his mother).
On 12 November 2020, Mr P and his mother took out a multi-car insurance policy with 
Admiral. This was to cover his mothers car for the year from 10 December 2020. It was also 
to cover Mr Ps car for the year from 30 January 2021. From that date, Mr Ps earlier policy 
expired, and Admiral no longer recorded Mr Ps sister as a named driver of Mr Ps car.
On 7 October 2021, police stopped Mr Ps sister while driving his car. On 8 October 2021, 
Mr P complained to Admiral that she shouldve been covered to drive his car. 
By a final response dated late October 2021, Admiral turned down the complaint. Mr P 
brought his complaint to us in November 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that  
Admiral had done anything wrong here. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Admiral hasnt provided evidence of the form filled in during the initial taking out of 
the multi-car policy. At no point were details of the drivers for his car entered. Neither 
he nor his mother changed the drivers of his car from those that included his sister.
It is not legal for one legal owner to be allowed to enter details of a vehicle which 
someone else owns.
Chat definitely took place as multi car is not simple and straight forward to take on for 
the first time, especially when his vehicle and his mothers vehicle had different 
renewal dates and named drivers. Admiral should have details of the chat.
He didnt authorise any Motor Proposal Confirmation other than the one dated 
January 2020. His mother had no rights on his car. Admirals computer systems have 
somehow unified the 2 policies in every way including named drivers, something 
which was never asked for or authorised by him or his mother. The welcome email 
dated 12 November 2020 does not show any driver details. The drivers of his car 
shouldve continued as before. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the relevant law, regulation and good practice. Above all I have to 
decide whats fair and reasonable.
For the year from December 2019, Mr Ps mother had her car insured on a policy with a 
provider other than Admiral. From the later renewal notice for her car, I see that, she had 
been the policyholder and there was only one named driver, who wasnt one of her children.
From 30 January 2020, Mr Ps policy with Admiral covered him as policyholder, and three 
named drivers  including Mr Ps brother and Mr Ps sister but not his mother.
A multi-car policy is intended to cover multiple vehicles. The vehicles do not all have to 
belong to the same person. The policy is intended to cover, for example, vehicles owned by 
multiple members of a family.
Mr Ps complaint form said that his mother and he took out the multi-car policy as one 
household. So I dont accept his more recent suggestion that there was something illegal 
about either of them entering details of the others car.
On 12 November 2020, Admiral generated a quote for Mr Ps mother and for Mr P. That was 
timed at 14:12. They accepted the quotes at 14:23. 
Admiral issued a welcome email at 14:24. It referred to both quotes. It didnt mention named 
drivers. But it did refer to an online account where the details could be found. The email 
included the following:
Your responsibilities
Details of your cover can be found on the Policy Schedule(s) and Proposal 
Confirmation(s). As the Policy Administrator, it's your responsibility to make sure 
policyholders check these details and inform us immediately of any errors. Failure to 
do this could affect your ability to claim or result in a policy being declared void.
So I consider that Mr P or his mother shouldve opened the policy documents (if necessary 
by contacting Admiral for help) and checked the named drivers. 
Ive noted that the multi-car policy covered the same three drivers for both vehicles. And Ive 
considered the possibility that Admiral made a mistake. 
But Mr P hadnt been a named driver on his mothers policy in November 2020. And his 
mother hadnt been a named driver on his policy in November 2020. So I find it likely that 
they had turned their minds to the question of named drivers when they went online on 12 
November 2020.
Nearly a year went by before police stopped Mr Ps sister driving his car. That mustve been 
traumatic for them both. And Mr Ps memory of an insurance transaction nearly a year 
before is likely to be less than perfect.
Admiral didnt find evidence of an online chat around 12 November 2020 when it checked on 
8 October 2021. And the transaction had been completed in under 15 minutes on 12 
November 2020. There had been barely enough time for an online chat in addition.So I dont find that there had been an online chat during which Mr P said that he wanted to 
continue to insure his sister to drive his car. I find it more likely that the motor proposal 
confirmation and policy schedule for his car were an accurate reflection of the details for 
which hed asked Admiral to quote.
In any event, Mr P shouldve checked the policy schedule on 12 November 2020 or at least 
when it took effect in January 2021, rather than after the incident in October 2021.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay compensation or to do any more 
in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman