DRN-2902330
The complaint
Mr B complained that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with Buddy Loans as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
1 06/06/17 £4,000 48 months £171.10
Mr B brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with Buddy Loans. 
In summary, Mr B didnt think that Buddy Loans had lent to him responsibly. He said the loan 
was unaffordable and the right affordability checks were not properly done leading to 
financial problems. 
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. 
Our adjudicator thought that the information Buddy Loans gathered about Mr Bs credit 
history, which included some negative information on his credit report, shouldve prompted 
Buddy Loans to do more to check his financial situation before agreeing this loan and had it 
done so, it shouldve found out that it was unlikely Mr B would be able to sustainably repay 
this loan.
Our adjudicator set out directions indicating what Buddy Loans needed to do to put things 
right. 
Buddy Loans disagreed with our adjudicators view. In brief summary, it mainly said that it 
carried out a credit assessment that went beyond the regulators expectations and the 
expectations of the Financial Ombudsman Service seemed to be different to the regulators 
expectations. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind when deciding whether to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
I agree with Buddy Loans when it says that the rules dont say what a lender should look at 
before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. For 
example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying 
other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments 
and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out 
the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial 
situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Buddy 
Loans relied on when it decided to lend to Mr B. 
Buddy Loans asked Mr B about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - 
and it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that Buddy Loans 
relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr B. 
Buddy Loans recorded Mr Bs income as £2,000 per month and used an online electronic 
income checker to verify what Mr B had said about his monthly pay.
Relying on this figure for his net monthly income and taking into account what Mr B had said 
about his monthly expenditure, including his spending on other credit, Buddy Loans worked 
out this left him with around £747 each month. It had allowed a contingency of £100 to 
cover any small fluctuations in his monthly income or spending and calculated that Mr B 
shouldve been comfortably able to afford the monthly repayment of £171.10 on this loan. 
But I think that Buddy Loans could see from its credit check that Mr B was making extensive 
use of credit. He had an amount of around £23,718 already outstanding  which I think was 
a substantial credit balance having regard to Mr Bs declared income of £2000. Buddy Loans 
credit check showed he was actually paying approximately £1096 towards other creditors  
including other providers of high cost credit.  
And Buddy Loans had noted that there were two active defaults showing on his record  
these were defaulted credit cards from 2011 which Mr B was still paying. Also, within the 
previous three months, hed made a late payment on a credit card and taken out at least 
three new loans, borrowing in excess of £5000 during this period  which was approximately 
a quarter of his outstanding balance owing to creditors when he applied to Buddy loans for 
this loan. 
So, although the loan mightve looked affordable to Buddy Loans, I think all this 
information appeared to be at odds with what Buddy Loans mightve reasonably expected 
to see, given the disposable income figure it had worked out for Mr B. 
To my mind, the information Buddy Loans gathered included clear warning signs that Mr B 
was struggling to manage his finances  defaults dating back 6 years were still being paid 
and he had recently missed the payment date on one of his many credit cards. He was already borrowing from at least four other lenders of expensive high cost loans and he had 
a payday loan as well. 
I think it would have been reasonable for Buddy Loans to conclude that, despite the 
disposable income calculation that it arrived at, Mr B was struggling to manage his 
finances. And it couldnt reasonably say, based on the information it had seen, that it was 
satisfied he would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way. 
Bearing in mind this was a substantial loan amount for Mr B to borrow, given his particular 
financial situation, and he was arranging to repay it over a four year term, I think Buddy 
Loans should have carried out further checks before agreeing to provide the loan to ensure 
that it had a proper understanding of Mr Bs financial situation. 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Mr B has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Buddy 
Loans was likely to have found out had it done more in-depth checks. To be clear, Im not 
suggesting the lender should have necessarily asked to see Mr Bs bank statements. Buddy 
Loans could decide for itself what it needed to do to meet its obligation as a lender to carry 
out checks that were reasonable and proportionate. But in the absence of other evidence, 
I think the bank statements Mr B has sent me give a reasonable insight into his finances at 
the time and show me what a proportionate check is likely to have revealed. 
Had Buddy Loans done proportionate checking it would likely have seen that Mr Bs income 
was less than it thought. In the period May-August 2017 his maximum earnings were only 
£1850  and in June 2017, when he started this loan, his take home pay was just £1,661.37. 
This meant that in reality, Mr B wasnt in a position to be able to meet his normal monthly 
outgoings of around £458 and pay all his credit commitments  which Buddy Loans credit 
checks showed totalled £1267 (including this loan). By my reckoning he was facing a 
shortfall of around £64. 
I think also that had Buddy Loans done proportionate checking it would have seen enough to 
confirm the indications on his credit file that he was facing serious problems managing his 
money. I think Buddy Loans shouldve realised that Mr B had become reliant on expensive 
forms of borrowing and he was dependent on obtaining new credit in order to fund his day to 
day costs and meet his other credit commitments. And I think it would have learnt that Mr B 
was regularly spending significant amounts on what appear to be online gambling 
transactions.
So if Buddy Loans had sought a fuller picture of Mr Bs financial situation, as I think it 
shouldve done, it wasnt likely to have been reassured that the loan would be sustainable for 
him. I think Buddy Loans shouldve seen enough, had it done a proportionate check, to have 
concluded that the loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr B and so it shouldnt 
have provided it. 
In coming to my view I've taken into account that Mr B had told Buddy Loans that he 
intended to use this loan for debt consolidation  in other words, to pay other debt.
But the loan was paid into Mr Bs bank account, so Buddy Loans didnt have control over 
whether it would in fact be used to pay off other credit. 
Mr Bs recent borrowing track record suggested he was repeatedly borrowing. The fact Mr B 
had taken out several recent loans (which Buddy Loans could see from the credit checks it 
did) was a sign that he was facing financial difficulties. Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Buddy Loans could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr B wouldnt put him in a worse position by 
increasing his overall debts. Given his recent borrowing, there was a real risk that Mr B 
might use this loan to help him meet his immediate need to make loan repayments with the 
result this loan would simply add to his existing debt. 
And even if Mr B had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think Buddy Loans 
was able safely to say this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to achieve a 
significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation  also keeping in mind that 
his borrowing appears to have been financing his gambling spending, which I think a 
proportionate check wouldve likely shown. I think thats borne out by information I've seen 
showing that Mr B still had two accounts showing in default on his credit file some years 
later. 
So for these reasons, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about the loan.  
I havent seen enough to make me think that Buddy Loans acted towards Mr B in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both Mr B and Buddy Loans have agreed with what I've said in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest (and possibly 
other fees or charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him.
I understand the loan has been repaid so Buddy Loans should do the following:
A) refund everything Mr B paid over the principal loan amount and repay this to Mr B 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
B) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for 
one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to take the 
steps set out above to put things right for Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman