DRN-3159860
The complaint
Miss S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt tell her that a card 
reader was required for certain transactions or automatically provide her with one.
What happened
Miss S says that she was unable to carry out a transaction whilst abroad as she didnt have 
a card reader. She says she didnt have a card reader and disputes being told she needed 
one. Miss S says in any event she had made a similar transaction before and questions 
RBSs security systems. She would like RBS to change its process about these issues and 
would like compensation for the stress she was caused. She also says RBS could have told 
her about the need for a card reader when she attended a branch.
RBS says when Miss S registered for online banking, she would have been told to order a 
card reader to make certain types of transactions. It says Miss S didnt do so and so it was 
entitled to reject her transaction attempt. It also says Miss S hadnt made previous payments 
by this method but had used a mobile application not online banking. RBS says its terms and 
conditions make clear the payment limits and says it hasnt made a mistake.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Miss S had agreed to account terms and conditions in 2009 and that RBS made 
clear that she needed to order a card reader when she registered for online banking.
Miss S doesnt accept that view and in summary says RBSs website suggests a card reader 
is automatically sent. She says she missed out on important communication and has been 
caused inconvenience as a result of what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss S will be disappointed by my decision and also appreciate how strongly she 
feels about what took place. I make clear to Miss S that we are not RBSs regulator and so 
its not our role to direct it to make changes to its security and fraud processes or to 
introduce other identification methods as Miss S suggests. And so it is not for us to direct 
RBS to issue card readers to all customers automatically when registering for online banking 
or make any findings on what may have been its previous policy, which was only to send 
card readers to customers that requested them.
I have looked carefully at RBSs records, account terms and conditions and online banking 
requirements. And I can see that RBSs policy was at the relevant time not to send a card 
reader to a customer unless requested. I think that is what took place here and that Miss S 
didnt request a card reader. So, I dont think RBS made a mistake or acted unfairly by telling 
Miss S that it required her to use the card reader when she attempted the transaction. I dont 
think Miss S had made a previous payment using that same method in the past and think 
that she had used a different method of banking. I cant fairly hold RBS responsible for what 
took place and think it made clear the need for a request to be made for a card reader when 
registering for online banking.
The key issue is if Miss S ought reasonably to have been aware that she needed to order a 
card reader. And I have made clear that I think RBS made that reasonably clear when online 
banking was approved. I appreciate Miss S says more should have been done to 
communicate that and that she ought to have been told about this issue in branch. I dont 
think it reasonable to have assumed RBS staff would have known that Miss S was unaware 
of the need to request a card reader and so I dont think they could have done more to assist 
her unless Miss S raised the issue in branch.
Overall, I appreciate Miss S says that RBS ought to have sent a card reader automatically 
and it may be the case that it now does so. But I can only consider if RBS followed its 
requirements at the time and I have made clear that I think it gave sufficient information to 
customers that they needed to apply for the card reader. I also appreciate that Miss S was 
caused inconvenience but that doesnt mean it follows that I can fairly hold RBS responsible 
for that. In any event I think it likely that any inconvenience was fairly minimal. I find this 
brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman