DRN-3948699
The complaint
Mr G complains Goldman Sachs International Bank trading as Marcus by Goldman Sachs 
(Marcus) unfairly rejected a payment into his savings account with them.
What happened
Mr G says he made a payment of £15,000 from his linked bank account with another 
provider in mid- December 2022, as he had done on previous occasions to his Marcus 
savings account. Mr G says he received notification from Marcus to say the payment had 
been withheld pending verification. Mr G says when he discussed this with Marcus, he was 
told the payment reference didnt match. Mr G says Marcus told him the spelling in the 
payee reference differed to the name of the bank account held and was considered 
suspicious.  
Mr G says Marcus have unfairly delayed his genuine payment as it had referred to an 
incorrect reference for the transaction. Mr G wants an apology from Marcus for the stress 
and inconvenience caused as he no longer has confidence in making future transactions 
going forward and wants suitable compensation for this.  
Marcus says it has a responsibility to check payments it receives under its regulatory 
requirements and payments can be held for compliance reasons under its terms and 
conditions. Marcus says the reference quoted on the payment it received didnt match the 
payees name, so it needed manual review. Marcus says once this was established over the 
telephone with Mr G, the payment was backdated for interest purposes. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Marcus response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator didnt feel it was unreasonable for Marcus to review payments it received. The 
investigator says the name on the transfer didnt match the name on the linked account, but 
Mr G had confirmed it was an abbreviation of his forename, so could understand his 
frustration. 
The investigator felt Marcus had however acted fairly when it backdated the interest 
following the verification of the payment with Mr G. The investigator didnt feel Marcus 
needed to do anything more. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr G to have to telephone Marcus to 
authorise a payment into his savings account, given he had made similar transactions before 
without issue. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Marcus acted reasonably when it withheld 
the payment into Mr Gs savings account when it did. 
The first thing to say here is banks like Marcus have a responsibility to protect its customers 
accounts and while Mr G may not agree, its not for me to tell it what payments it should and 
shouldnt check as part of its regulatory requirements. 
Here, while perhaps Marcus could have provided Mr G with a more comprehensive 
explanation as to why the payment was initially withheld, from the information I have seen 
this was due to the payment reference spelling not exactly matching the payees name on his 
account and that was the reason why it was flagged as suspicious. 
While I can see that may have been inconvenient for Mr G, as he says hes made similar 
transactions like this before, thats not to say Marcus cant from time to time undertake such 
manual intervention  after all its to protect its customers interests, as it is legally required to 
do. 
I can see Marcus have backdated any interest to reflect the short delay in approving that 
payment after it had been clarified with Mr G - so he hasnt been financially disadvantaged 
here.
With that in mind, while Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking 
anymore of Marcus here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman