DRN-4225852
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money are not allowing him to 
fully contribute his 2022/2023 Individual Savings Account (ISA) allowance into a fixed rate 
ISA he holds with them.
What happened
Mr H opened a fixed rate ISA with Virgin Money in July 2022 and he deposited £10,000 of 
his ISA allowance into the account. He later transferred a stocks and shares ISA into the 
account, but he now finds he is unable to deposit any other funds into the account due to a 
30 day limit that Virgin Money impose on the account, which he says this has effectively 
resulted in him being unable to fully utilise his full 2022/2023 ISA allowance. Mr H says he 
complained about this to Virgin Money, but he didnt receive a reply or acknowledgement, so 
he wrote to them a further three times asking for a reply. Mr H brought his complaint to our 
service.
Virgin Money partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and offered him £50 compensation (after our 
services involvement) for the customer service he had regarding his complaint. But they 
said the key product information sheet explained the 30 day limit for making deposits into the 
account, so they were not at fault for Mr H being unable to add to the account after 30 days. 
Our investigator said the key product information Mr H was provided with informed Mr H that 
Virgin Money must receive all money within 30 days of his account opening date. She said 
Virgin Money made it clear how their fixed rate ISAs worked. 
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he referred to the ISA regulations 1998 and he said there is no leeway for banks 
to make up their own rules. He said in attempting to set their own rules, at variance to 
regulations covered by legislation, Virgin Money prevented him from making use of his full 
ISA Allowance in the tax year 2022/2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr H that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what the 
terms and conditions of a product should be as this would be a commercial decision for 
Virgin Money to make. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, 
who have the power to instruct Virgin Money to make changes to their terms and 
conditions/key product information if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mr H has said about the ISA regulations, no leeway for banks to make 
up their own rules and Virgin Money have prevented him from making the full use of his ISA 
allowance for the tax year 2022/2023. But Im not persuaded that Virgin Money have 
contravened the ISA regulations 1998. And they have not prevented him contributing his full 
ISA allowance or made up ISA rules and Ill explain why.
Mr H initially deposited £10,000 into the fixed rate ISA. But he could have contributed up to 
the £20,000 ISA allowance, so they have not prevented him from contributing his full ISA 
allowance for the 2022/2023 tax year. The key product information sheet which sets up how 
the account works is clear that To ensure money is accepted into your new account we 
must receive all money within 30 days from your account opening date. Any deposits 
received after 30 days may be returned to you. A window to deposit is not uncommon on 
fixed rate ISAs across the industry.
So as Mr H agreed to the terms/key product information, he should have been aware that 
any contribution must be received by Virgin Money within 30 days. If Mr H wanted to pay 
funds into an ISA after 30 days of opening the account, then it would have been 
proportionate for him not to open this account after this was made clear to him as more 
flexible ISAs may have been available for him to open. So as he had 30 days to pay in his 
2022/2023 allowance then I cant agree that Virgin Money prevented him from using his full 
ISA allowance for the tax year. 
But Virgin Money had let Mr H down with the customer service they provided him. I say this 
as it would have been distressing for him to receive no reply to his correspondence. And he 
would have been inconvenienced by having to chase this up. Virgin Money offered Mr H £50 
for the poor customer service here after our involvement, and Im satisfied that this is fair. I 
say this because this is broadly in line with what I would have awarded him if Virgin Money 
did not partially uphold his complaint. So Virgin Money should pay Mr H the £50 they offered 
him after his complaint was brought to our service if they havent already done so.
Putting things right
Since this services involvement, Virgin Money have agreed to pay Mr H £50 for poor 
customer service, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Mr 
H £50 compensation (if they havent already done so) for poor customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman