DRN-4152312
The complaint
Miss S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) have declined her claim for 
treatment provided to her dog T.   
       
What happened
In December 2022 Miss S made a claim for treatment for recurrent diarrhoea in respect of T.
Red Sands declined the claim, saying that it was excluded under the policy. 
They said that conditions are only be covered for 365 days from the date that the problem is 
first noticed. In June 2021 Miss S made a claim for T for vomiting, drooling and retching. 
Following that claim, Red Sands wrote to her advising that there would be an exclusion on 
all claims with respect to the digestive system from 10 June 2022. As this claim new was for 
diarrhoea, it was related to the digestive system and as 365 days had passed the exclusion 
applied. 
Miss S disagreed with this and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint and she thought that Red Sands had acted fairly in declining the claim 
because the policy exclusion was made clear to her at renewal and is in line with Red Sands 
underwriting guidance.    
   
Miss S didnt agree, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
In deciding this case I have to look at whether Red Sands have applied the terms and 
conditions of their policy correctly, and whether they have acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim. 
I have seen all the policy documents, correspondence between Red Sands and Miss S, and 
I have also seen all of Ts medical notes. 
I can see that following Ts treatment for vomiting in 2021, Red Sands wrote to Ms S and told 
her that there would be an exclusion taking effect on her policy from 1 August 2021 which 
was:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to the Digestive System with effect from 1 
August 2021.
Under the terms of the policy, however, cover would remain in place for 365 days from the 
date of the vomiting episode, so digestive claims would be paid until 10 June 2022. 
At renewal of the policy on 1 August 2022, the schedule contained the following exclusions:
Exclusions that have been applied to your policy:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to the Urinary System with effect from 1 
August 2019.
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to the Digestive System with effect from 1 
August 2021.
Although Digestive System isnt defined in the policy, online resources describe the 
digestive system in both humans and animals as including the large intestine, rectum and 
anus. So, while I appreciate that Miss S may feel that vomiting and diarrhoea are different 
conditions, Im satisfied that its reasonable to treat a claim for recurrent diarrhoea as a 
claim related to the digestive system, and therefore to exclude it under this policy exclusion.    
Ive then thought about whether the policy exclusion was fairly added to the policy following 
the episode of vomiting. Its a very broad exclusion and so its important that Red Sands 
have acted fairly in applying it after one episode of vomiting. Red Sands have provided us 
with their underwriting guidance, which shows that this exclusion is one that is applied to 
time limited policies after a diagnosis of vomiting, and is fairly applied to all policies where 
such a claim is made.   
Miss S has also told us that T has since been diagnosed with Diabetes, and she has been 
told by the vet that the diarrhoea was likely related to the undetected diabetes. Miss S has 
argued that as the diarrhoea was a symptom of the diabetes, it should be paid. 
However, whilst I accept that the diarrhoea may have been connected to the undetected 
diabetes, it is a symptom that is presented in the digestive system, and it is the digestive 
system that is excluded under the policy,  and so Im satisfied that this claim would still be 
caught by the exclusion that has been applied. 
In view of the above I think Red Sands have acted fairly in declining this claim.
 
My final decision
My decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint about Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe).   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman