DRN-3540928
The complaint
Mr L complains about TSB Bank plc (TSB). His complaint is about TSB allowing transfers of 
funds from his account to a family member for the purchase of an overseas property. 
Mr L was supported by a representative in making his complaint. References to Mr L include 
his representative.
What happened
In 2018 Mr L was contacted by his daughter to re-establish their relationship. They hadnt 
been in contact for some years. They discussed her plans to move overseas and Mr L was 
asked if he would like to join her and her family there. Mr L said he would, and it was agreed 
they would sell their respective homes and pool the proceeds to purchase a property in the 
country to which they planned to move, with a view to renovating the property. Mr L moved 
to the country in October 2020, joining his daughter, her husband and their two children in 
their holiday home. 
But the holiday home wasnt suitable for Mr L and his daughters family to live in together, so 
Mr L moved into a rented property while renovations on the property theyd purchased were 
completed. In the meantime, the sale of Mr Ls property in the UK was completed in 
December 2020 and he then transferred the funds, over five separate days because of the 
daily limit on transfers, to an account held by his daughter and her husband. Shortly 
afterwards, disagreements arose between Mr L and his daughter and she told him she no 
longer wanted any contact with him. Mr L had expected a return of some funds from his 
daughter (to enable him to return to the UK) but he didnt receive them.
Mr L contacted TSBs fraud team in January 2021 to tell them what had happened, saying 
he felt he had been the victim of fraud. He also reported the matter to Action Fraud (in the 
UK) and contacted the police of the country concerned. TSBs fraud team considered what 
Mr L had said but told him they considered the matter to be a family dispute between Mr L 
and his daughter and her husband.
  
Unhappy at response from the fraud team, Mr L complained to TSB. In their final response, 
they upheld some aspects of the complaint. In respect of the main element of complaint (the 
transfers of the completion proceeds of his property) they considered the matter to be a 
domestic dispute (between Mr L and his daughter and her husband) and not fraud. So, it 
wouldnt be covered by the Fraud Refund Guarantee scheme. But they said they might be 
able to review the decision should evidence be produced as part of a police investigation.
 
However, TSB acknowledged Mr L had to wait for some time to have his fraud concerns 
addressed by TSBs fraud team. They apologised for this not being the level of service Mr L 
should have received. They offered to reimburse Mr L for any expenses associated with his 
raising his concerns with them, such as telephone costs. TSB also acknowledged some 
issues with the operation of his account (including a temporary block on his debit card) but 
said it reflected the need to carry out security checks and protect the account.
Mr L then complained to this service. Mr L said he had been the deceived by his daughter 
and her husband about their intentions and the transfers of the proceeds of the sale of his 
property had been fraudulent. Hed lost his home and wasnt able to return to the UK. This 
had also adversely affected his mental health. He wanted TSB to apologise and reimburse 
him for the transfers made.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding TSB didnt need to take any action. 
He thought TSB had intervened in the transfers made by Mr L for the property purchase to 
question them. Mr L had complained about TSB initially putting a block on the payments, in 
response to which they paid Mr L compensation. Our investigator thought the complaint 
indicated Mr L wanted to make the payments and so TSB werent responsible for his loss. 
He thought the matter one for Mr L to pursue through the courts and relevant authorities.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He thought the transfers could have been identified as grooming of a vulnerable 
customer. While hed confirmed a transfer over the phone, his daughters husband with him 
and he felt pressured into agreeing the transfers. Mr L was also concerned TSB hadnt 
appeared to have recorded the nature of his vulnerability, which he felt meant they were at 
fault for accepting the transfers. Mr L also said he had additional evidence of his being taken 
advantage of by his daughter and her husband, but it was all verbal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider whether TSB have acted fairly towards Mr L.
In doing so, Ive considered very carefully what Mr L has told us about his circumstances 
and whats happened over what he thought was a joint purchase of the overseas property 
with his daughter and her husband. I sympathise with his position and understand why he 
feels hes been the victim of a scam. I know hes very distressed about the situation and 
finds himself overseas without other family or friends to support him, particularly given his 
vulnerability. This has been at the forefront of my mind when considering this complaint and I 
hope what Ive said makes clear how Ive reached my decision. 
Its not in dispute that Mr L authorised the transfers here. That means that the general 
position is that Mr L could be held liable for them under what the relevant rules (the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017) say.
But Mr Ls complaint is that TSB were at fault in allowing him to make the transfers of the 
funds from the sale of his property to his daughter and her husbands account. Mr L says he 
feels deceived by his daughter and her husband about their intentions and the transfers of 
the proceeds of the sale of his property had been fraudulent. He also thinks the transfers 
could have been identified as grooming of a vulnerable customer. And while hed confirmed 
a transfer over the phone, his daughters husband was with him and he felt pressured into 
agreeing the transfers.
The starting point here is that a business should usually follow its customers instructions 
unless there is a good reason not to do so. Looking at the sequence of events, from the 
statements for Mr Ls account and TSBs case notes, I can see earlier transactions by Mr L 
in favour of his daughter. In September 2019 there was a transfer to his daughters account 
(which Mr L told us was a contribution to a loft conversion at his daughters holiday home). In 
December 2019 there was a cash withdrawal, which TSBs notes indicate was challenged by 
staff. Mr L confirmed it was to buy Christmas presents for his daughter. Two subsequent 
transfers were made in August 2020 and November 2020, which Mr L says were, respectively, towards a deposit on the overseas property and a van to move his possessions 
to the country concerned. Theres nothing to indicate these transactions werent intended by 
Mr L (or challenged by him at the time or subsequently). Theyre consistent with what (at the 
time) was Mr Ls expectation of moving to the country concerned with a view to purchasing a 
property jointly with his daughter and her husband. Other than the cash withdrawal, theres 
no indication TSB challenged them or sought confirmation of their validity with Mr L. But at 
that point, even had they done so, I dont think Mr L would have done anything other than to 
confirm they were valid.
The key transactions in December 2020 were receipt of the completion proceeds from the 
sale of Mr Ls property. On the same day (and the two following days) transfers of £25,000 
(the maximum daily limit) were made through the internet banking facility on Mr Ls account. 
Three days later, a further (smaller) transfer was attempted  but was blocked by a security 
check. The block was lifted following Mr L confirming the transfer was valid. A second 
transfer on the same day (of an amount that in total reached the maximum daily limit) was 
then made through the internet banking facility. A final transfer of the balance of the 
completion proceeds was attempted through internet banking the following day. This was 
again blocked by a security check. TSBs case notes indicate Mr L gave TSB permission to 
speak to his daughters husband, and the transfer was confirmed as valid.
Ive thought carefully about whether TSB acted reasonably, particularly with regard to the 
transactions and transfers relating to the sale of Mr Ls property. TSBs security checks were 
triggered by two of the proposed transfers  though not the first three (each of the daily 
maximum amount allowed through Internet Banking). However, TSB obtained confirmation 
from Mr L that the two proposed transfers were valid. Had similar security checks been 
made on the three preceding transfers, it seems likely all three would have been confirmed 
as valid in the same way as were the two subsequent transfers. And at that point, Mr L 
believed they were being made for the purpose of joint purchase of the property. It was only 
subsequently, when his daughter told him she didnt want any further contact with him that 
he then believed he had been the victim of a scam. So, while what happened is very 
unfortunate for Mr L, I cant conclude TSB acted unreasonably in the circumstances and 
what was known at the time.
Mr L also says he has additional evidence of his being taken advantage of by his daughter 
and her husband, but it is verbal. I recognise that makes the position difficult for Mr L, but he 
can take any information or evidence he has to the appropriate authorities for them to 
consider whether there is a case for either civil or criminal action. Ultimately this side of 
things is between Mr L and his daughter and husband  rather than something that this 
service can become involved in as a part of this complaint against TSB, which is what we 
can consider. I note Mr L has already contacted Action Fraud and the police of the country 
concerned (Mr L says the latter are considering what happened as a abuse of trust and 
investigations are continuing).
Mr L is also concerned about TSB not appearing to have recorded the nature of his 
vulnerability, which he felt meant they were at fault for accepting the transfers. TSB say they 
were aware of his vulnerability and took this into account when considering Mr Ls concerns.
In considering this issue, Ive noted what TSB said in their final response. TSB have also 
provided evidence of their recording Mr Ls vulnerability shortly after he raised his concerns 
with the TSB fraud team in January 2021. This marker sets out the nature of the vulnerability 
and an indication of the kind of support to be provided (particularly when dealing with Mr L). 
It also indicates the support required is permanent (rather than temporary or for a specific 
period). While the marker doesnt of itself guarantee the quality of support (as indicated by 
TSBs final response) I think its a reasonable action for TSB to have put in place.Taking all these points into account, while I recognise what Mr L has said about what has 
happened and the impact its had on him, I cant conclude TSB have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the specific circumstances of the case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman