DRN-2913253
The complaint
Mrs M complains State Bank Of India (UK) Limited (SBI) wont refund several transactions 
she disputes to having made from her account. 
What happened
In May 2020, Mrs Ms purse was stolen while out shopping. On that day, and the following 
two days after, five ATM, and one point of sale transactions were carried out. I wont list all 
the transactions and key events here as they are well known to both parties. The total of 
these transactions, which Mrs M disputes to having made, is £4,800. Mrs M reported the 
theft to the Police.  
SBI sent Mrs M text messages on her registered telephone number about these 
transactions.
Three days after the purse was stolen Mrs Ms daughter  who is also her representative on 
this complaint  called SBI. She explained her mothers purse, which included her SBI debit 
card, had been stolen. 
Mrs M says when she realised these funds were fraudulently taken from her account, she 
told SBI who looked into the matter. SBI didnt agree it should refund Mrs M the transactions. 
Unhappy, Mrs M complained. 
SBI didnt uphold the complaint. Amongst other things, it pointed Mrs M to the terms of her 
account. Namely that she will be responsible for all losses incurred in respect of 
unauthorised transactions if she has acted fraudulently or has with intent, or gross 
negligence failed to keep safe her payment instrument and personal security credentials.  
Mrs M then referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the 
matter and partially upheld it. In summary they found: 
- The transactions were authenticated in line with SBIs procedures 
- The transactions were likely carried out by an unknown and unauthorised individual. 
Thats because of the out of character spending pattern given Mrs Ms typical use of 
the account, and how they mirror expected behaviour from an opportunistic fraudster.  
- SBIs evidence showed no failed PIN attempts were made by the potential fraudsters. 
Given Mrs M says she didnt write her PIN down in her purse, and as her last card 
use was several days ago, there wasnt any plausible explanation for how an 
unknown person came to know the PIN. 
So, the only plausible explanation is the PIN was written down and stored in the 
purse. Because of this, Mrs M was grossly negligent. And in line with the relevant 
regulations, Mrs M becomes liable for the unauthorised payments. 
- Given the unusual nature of the transactions, Mrs Ms vulnerabilities, customer 
profile, and non-confirmation nature of the text messages SBI sent, SBI wasnt 
pro-active enough in protecting its customer. 
- Mrs Ms cognitive condition, and irregular use, would also go some way to explain 
why she didnt recall she had an SBI card, and why she didnt report the matter until 
a few days later. 
- All transactions bar the first one should be refunded to Mrs M. 
SBI did not agree with what our investigator said. In short it says: 
- Mrs M should be held liable for the financial loss as she was grossly negligent
- As the CHIP was read and the correct PIN used on all the transactions, SBI had no 
grounds to believe anyone other than Mrs M was carrying them out. 
- SBI wasnt informed of the card loss and disputed transactions until three days after 
Mrs M says her purse was stolen. 
- Mrs M should have made SBI aware of any vulnerabilities so it could make 
adjustments. And Mrs Ms advanced age isnt enough to categorise her as 
vulnerable.  
Relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I'm required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Of particular importance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSR 
2017) which apply to transactions like the ones Mrs M disputes. Among other things the PSR 
2017 include the following: 
Regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 explains:
67. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the 
payer for the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent to  
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; or 
(b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that payment 
transaction forms part.
 
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments.
Gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with "gross negligence" is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis taking into account all the circumstances. The term is not 
defined in the PSR or in the Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the second 
Payment Services Directive provides as follows:"In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user account should be taken of all of the circumstances. The evidence and degree 
of alleged negligence should generally be evaluated according to national law. However 
while the concept of negligence implies a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence should 
mean more than mere negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness, for example keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction 
beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily detectable by third 
parties..."
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, says: "... we interpret "gross negligence" to be a higher standard than the 
standard of negligence under common law. The customer needs to have shown a very 
significant degree of carelessness."
Although not specific to this case, the FCAs interpretation is of value as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous interpretive guidance, and because it 
informs the meaning of a concept that had been in place for some time in the Banking Code.
Negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. And, as I have 
described above, the use of gross negligence, rather than mere negligence, suggests a 
lack of care that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence or carelessness. 
So, if I find the disputed transactions were unauthorised, I have to consider whether Mrs Ms 
actions fell so far below the standard of a reasonable person that she failed with gross 
negligence to meet her obligations as a payment service user or to comply with her 
accounts terms and conditions.
But that is not the end of the story:
Regulated firms like SBI are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6) 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
Identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
Look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of Practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of)
This means there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Did Mrs M authorise the payments? 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mrs Ms genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. So, that means Im satisfied the transactions were 
authenticated in line with what the PSRs say. But the PSRs say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable SBI to hold Mrs M liable. 
So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that 
Mrs M consented to the payments being made.
Having given this considerable thought, Im persuaded, on balance Mrs M didnt consent to 
these payments. I say that because:
- The nature of spend is completely out of character with Mrs M typical use and 
customer profile. Mrs M says she uses this account for saving money given its 
preferential rate of interest. This aligns itself to the activity I have seen on the 
statements provided to me.  
- The technical records SBI have sent me show spending behaviour Id expect to see 
from an opportunistic fraudster. There are balance enquiries, failed cash withdrawals 
for the limit being reached, and opportunities to take as much money as possible are 
maximised. 
- Given Mrs Ms typical account behaviour and profile, I find it implausible she would 
travel over 150 miles to carry out a substantive transaction in a shop she likely has 
very little interest in.
- Mrs M reported the matter to the Police and relevant fraud body. I find her testimony 
that shed forgotten she had an SBI card after the theft of her purse - and so didnt 
report it until three days later - plausible. Thats because of how little she used the 
account, and her medical condition  something our investigator has made SBI 
aware of. 
So, for these reasons, I think its most likely Mrs M didnt authorise the transactions she 
disputes. 
Did Mrs M fail with intent or gross negligence? 
Given what Ive said above in the relevant considerations section, Im persuaded Mrs M has 
failed with gross negligence to meet her obligations as a payment service user. And thereby 
hasnt complied with her accounts terms and conditions. 
Mrs M says she had the same PIN number for all her bank cards, including the SBI one. 
When her purse was stolen, the last time she used any card was a few days before. This in 
turn makes the prospect of her PIN being seen by someone  an activity often referred to us 
shoulder surfing  highly unlikely. If that had happened, it would mean an opportunistic fraudster monitoring, and thereby following her around for a few days waiting for the 
opportune moment to steal her purse. I dont find that likely. 
Mrs M says a record of the PIN was made but it was kept safe at home. If thats the case, I 
find it difficult to understand how a fraudster came to know of the PIN. Its worth noting that 
SBIs records show there were no failed PIN attempts. In other words, every attempted 
transaction was done so with the PIN entered correctly each time.   
Mrs M, and her representative are sure a record of the PIN wasnt kept in the purse. But 
based on the evidence in front of me, I cant see how else an opportunistic fraudster would 
know the PIN without it being recorded in this way. So I think its most likely Mrs M kept a 
record of her PIN in her purse. 
To my mind, this is more than mere negligence. Im satisfied Mrs Ms likely lack of care 
goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence or carelessness and is therefore grossly 
negligent.  As Ive said before, this would mean Mrs M ought to be held liable for the 
transactions. 
So, I know need to consider if this outcome is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
Should SBI have done more to protect Mrs M from financial harm? 
Mrs Ms customer profile, which includes her age and account activity, would have been 
known to SBI. Mrs M also had a medical condition which affects her cognitive ability. Based 
on what Ive seen, I accept SBI didnt know about this at the time the transactions took place. 
Ive closely looked at Mrs Ms banking activity on this SBI account from the statements Ive 
been given. And having done that, Im satisfied she didnt use it to spend money  but more 
so as a savings account as she says. So, because of that, the unusual nature of the 
spending, and given Mrs Ms age, Im persuaded the fraudulent payments, and the way they 
were being carried out, should have alerted SBI that something wasnt quite right. 
This in turn, should have put SBI on alert to check the authenticity of these transactions. 
SBI have sent me information which shows it sent Mrs M a text message after each 
transaction was made. The wording for each was: Thank you for withdrawal of GBP XXXX 
using [method of payment], Reference No.XXXXXXX at [details of point of sale terminal]. 
Please contact XXXXX for any query. 
SBI say because it sent Mrs M these text messages, she should have been alerted to what 
was going on and contacted SBI much sooner. Mrs Ms representative informs us that given 
her age profile, and her little or no ability with technology, Mrs M didnt use her mobile 
phone. 
Having carefully examined Mrs Ms testimony, and taken into account her age and medical 
condition, I have no reason to doubt what she has said about using her mobile phone. In any 
case only the last text message from SBI seems to have been received by Mrs M. The 
technical report Ive been given suggest all previous five messages failed. 
But, even if this wasnt the case, I dont think, in the circumstances of this complaint, SBI had 
done enough to take the additional steps required to protect Mrs M from the possibility of 
suffering financial harm. I think SBI shouldve have done more when it never received a reply from the first text 
message. For example, instead of sending a text which says Mrs M should get in touch if 
theres a query, it should have - given Mrs Ms customer profile and banking activity - 
blocked the payment and sent a text message asking for active confirmation she was 
making the payment. 
If SBI had done that, then its very likely only the first payment would have been debited from 
Mrs Ms account meaning any further fraud and financial loss would have been prevented. 
SBI argue Mrs Ms age isnt enough to say shes vulnerable and that Mrs M should have told 
it about any vulnerabilities beforehand so that it could make the relevant adjustments. I think 
its incumbent on SBI to ensure it protects its customers from financial harm especially as it, 
as a bank, is well placed to know about fraud and scams. I also think Mrs Ms age is a factor 
when considering how it goes about doing this. 
So after weighing everything up, I dont think Mrs M authorised the transaction in dispute. 
But she did fail with gross negligence to protect her security credentials and should as a 
result be liable for the payments. But SBI should have done to protect Mrs M from financial 
harm. And had it have done so, Im persuaded Mrs M is likely to have only lost out financially 
on the first payment of the six she disputes.  
Putting things right
Given what Ive said above, to put things right SBI should: 
- Refund £4,550
- Waive any liability fee(s) that have been charged to Mrs M as a result of what has 
happened; and
- Pay Mrs M £75 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint, and direct State Bank Of India (UK) Limited to put things 
right as Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman