DRN-3930582
The complaint
Mr W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly gave him two 
credit card accounts that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 20 February 2015, Mr Ws first Mastercard credit card was opened by Capital One with 
an initial credit limit of £200. This credit limit was never increased. 
On 10 November 2017, Mr Ws second credit card was opened by Capital One with an 
initial credit limit of £300. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Mr W complained to Capital One to say that the accounts shouldnt have been 
opened for him because they werent affordable and that Capital One ought to have made 
a better effort to understand his financial circumstances before providing him with credit.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr W didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. Having reviewed all the submissions made in 
this case, I have reached the same outcome as our adjudicator and for the same reasons.  
I note that the original date for further submissions was 9 February 2023. I note that 
Capital One has not made a final submission. But as I have reached the same outcome as 
our adjudicator, I dont think theyve suffered detriment by me issuing this early. And in Mr 
Ws latest missive, he said he was making in it, just one final point. So, I consider I have 
had his final submission. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ws complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. Capital 
One has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr W provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mr Ws name 
to assess Mr Ws level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been managing 
that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Capital One decided to 
agree to the credit limit of £200 for the first and £300 for the second credit card. So, there 
was some assessment of affordability at the time of the sale.
The Capital One checks showed that Mr W had modest unsecured borrowings. And I have 
noted that Mr Ws credit file was reasonably clean at the time of the applications. When I 
say this, I mean that Mr Ws management of his existing credit showed no recent history of 
CCJs, defaults or late payments. And in 2017 Capital One could see that there had been no 
late or overpayment fees on the existing credit card. So, it seemed from the credit file that at 
the point that the lending decision was made, Mr W was affording his existing credit. There 
had been some negative marking on the credit searches but nothing in the eight months 
before the lending decisions were made. And these may be part of the reason the initial 
credit limits were so modest and never increased. The initial credit limits were modest 
compared to the income that Mr W declared in his applications. And the monthly 
repayments based on these modest credit limits would also have been modest. 
And so, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I think that Capital One 
were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from the above, or that they 
were put on notice to make more searching enquiries into Mr Ws financial position, before 
agreeing to the credit. I think the checks that Capital One conducted were proportionate 
checks. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Capital One at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. I have seen insufficient evidence that the other 
information that Capital One acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decisions, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Ws 
financial position more closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Capital One provided to Mr W was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman