DRN-1325963
 
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA). She isnt happy that it turned 
down a claim under her wedding insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim under her wedding insurance policy after her daughters wedding dress 
was damaged. When the dress was taken out of storage a few days after the wedding it was 
noted that the dress was damaged. Mrs S tried to get the dress repaired and looked to make 
a claim under the policy.
Unfortunately, the dress couldnt be repaired and although RSA initially suggested it would 
pay the claim it went on to turn it down. It was of the view the damage to the dress was most 
likely caused during the wedding and said a claim would only be paid if the damage 
prevented the wedding from going ahead. It offered £25 compensation for incorrectly saying 
that it would pay the claim in the early stages. But Mrs S wasnt happy about this, so she 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold the complaint. He thought RSA 
was entitled to decline the claim and that its offer of £25 compensation, for providing 
incorrect information in the first instance, was fair.
Mrs S didnt agree. She thought the damage was most likely caused on the day of the 
wedding so RSA should meet the claim. So the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
It isnt clear when the dress was damaged, but it is clear the wedding went ahead without 
issue on the day which is good to hear. I know Mrs S feels that the damage to the dress 
should be covered and I can understand why. But RSA relied on the terms and conditions of 
the policy in turning down the claim and I have to judge whether it acted reasonably. And 
from the information before me I believe it did. Ill explain why.
I know Mrs S feels the claim should be met but the policy is clear that it will pay to replace 
as new or repair the damage of ceremonial attire, to enable the wedding to go ahead. But 
the wedding went ahead, and damage was only noticed four days later, so I dont think that 
RSA has acted unreasonably. It has simply turned down the claim in line with the policy 
terms. And cover only applied until completion of the wedding, and the wedding had 
finished by the time the damage was discovered. It is possible the damage was sustained on the day of the wedding. But it is also possible the 
dress was damaged after the wedding while it was being stored. Either way Im satisfied that 
the wedding was completed. 
I note that Mrs S also feels the dress should be covered under a section of the policy relating 
to wedding gifts. She feels that as the dress was a gift then RSA should consider dealing 
with her claim under this part of the policy. 
Although I can understand the point made, I dont think that this clause is intended to cover 
the wedding dress. The policy says it will pay for loss of or damage to wedding gifts as a 
result of accident, fire or theft or attempted theft while being stored by you or your close 
relative or a member of your wedding party. But this part of the policy looks to cover actual 
wedding gifts that were being stored or in transit. I know Mrs S believes the dress was on 
display and so should be covered under the policy, but I dont think that was the intention of 
the clause.
Ultimately, I think if the wedding dress was damaged before the wedding then RSA would 
have settled the claim. But as the wedding had finished when damage was discovered to the 
dress four days later, I dont think it has done anything wrong.
Finally, it is disappointing that RSA provided Mrs S with incorrect information about the claim 
when she first called. I note RSA has provided some management advice to the call handler 
about this and paid £25 compensation. Although I can understand that the way RSA dealt 
with her claim initially wasnt correct and gave her false expectation, I think its actions since 
that time and offer of a small amount of compensation are reasonable.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman