DRN-3989488
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the value Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) placed 
on his car when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim on his car insurance policy when he was involved in an accident. LV 
deemed the car a total loss. Its engineer inspected the car and valued it at £9,372. Mr H said 
he spent around £17,000 restoring the car in the three years just prior to the incident. 
LV said it relied on vehicle valuation guides and market examples to reach a valuation of 
£6,402, it paid an additional £875 for the optional features of the car and £2,125 for the 
restoration work.
Mr H didnt accept its valuation and brought his complaint to our service. He said he was 
also unhappy with the way LV handled the claim. Additionally, he complained he hadnt had 
a resolution regarding his claim for his personal belongings.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought LVs approach to the 
optional features of the car was fair as it considered the features depreciated at the same 
rate as the car. But she didnt agree with its approach to the restoration work Mr H had 
undertaken. She didnt think LV had given a reasonable explanation to support its approach 
to calculating the impact of the restorations on the value of the car. Our investigator didnt 
think it was fair to apply 80% depreciation to the cost of the restorations.
Our investigator said LV should also consider Mr Hs claim for his personal belongings. And 
she didnt think it had handled Mr Hs claims as she would have expected and asked it to 
pay £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Mr H accepted our investigators opinion, but LV didnt. It settled Mr H claim for his personal 
belonging and agreed to pay him £300 in compensation. But it didnt accept our 
investigators opinion regarding the valuation. It said it looked at other cars available on the 
market and said it would increase its offer to £11,500. 
Mr H didnt accept its offer. Mr H later said he didnt think £300 was enough compensation 
for its handling of his claim. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was been 
passed to me to decide.
I issued my provision decision on 13 February 2023 in which I said: 
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint, but for different reasons to our 
investigator.
LV has now dealt with Mr Hs claim for his personal belonging. So, I wont comment on this 
aspect of his complaint any further. Instead Ive focused on what remains in dispute and that 
is its valuation of the car and its overall handling of his claim.
Valuation
LV increased its valuation of Mr Hs car to £11,500 and I think this offer is fair. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to him, but Ill explain why. Having reviewed this case, I 
understand Mr H took a lot of pride in and put care into maintaining the condition of his car. 
And I can appreciate how upsetting it was for his car to have been written off especially as, 
from what he told me, it was through no fault of his own. But I must put aside my feelings of 
empathy and consider his complaint impartially.
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual car is. We look at 
whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and taken reasonable steps to 
ensure a fair valuation was reached. Under the terms of Mr Hs policy, LV must pay him the 
market value of the car at the time of the loss.
The policy defines market value as:
the cost of replacing your car with the same make, model and specification. Age, mileage 
and condition will be taken into account. Well ask an engineer for advice, use motor trade 
guides and other sources to determine the market value. Well consider the amount you 
could have reasonably got for your car if you sold it immediately before the accident, loss or 
theft and not the price you paid for it
Mr H said his cars market value is around £14,000 and he doesnt think its possible to 
replace it for the amount LV offered to pay him. The valuation of a used car isnt an exact 
science, and its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the 
estimated market value of a car. This is because, the valuations the guides give are based 
on national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with a similar age and mileage for 
sale at the time of loss. We usually find the guides more reliable than individual adverts as 
these can vary vastly in price and can be misleading as often cars arent sold at the 
advertised price once negotiations take place.
That said, adverts have their place as occasionally the guides arent able to provide a 
valuation, or dont produce a valuation we think is fair, but this is usually when a car is rare 
or a limited edition and there are few examples available in the market.
LV said it consulted three valuation guides and based its valuation on the guide with the 
highest value which priced Mr Hs car at £5,820. The guides provide figures to reflect what a 
vehicle might be sold for in different markets, and generally we would rely on figures for cars 
sold by car dealership companies in the retail market. Im satisfied LVs valuation was based 
on the retail market values produced by the guides for cars in good condition. LV said it also 
looked at adverts for similar cars available in the market and increased its base valuation to 
£6,402. 
A car may have optional extras or upgrades added to it, but they rarely add a significant 
amount to its value. And more often we find that these optional features dont increase the 
value a car is sold for. Ive also carried out my own search using one of the valuation guides 
and it showed the optional features in Mr Hs car didnt add to its value. Nevertheless, LV 
says it considered the optional features of the car and applied depreciation at the same rate
as the car. So, it added £827 to its valuation to account for the optional features of the car 
and I think that was fair.
It said it also thought about the restoration work Mr Hs garage confirmed had been carried 
out. LVs engineer discounted what it considered to be maintenance work from its 
calculations. I understand Mr H says (due to the Covid 19 pandemic) he used the car minimally between its last MOT and when the incident, but considering the cars age and 
high mileage, I dont think its unreasonable that work unrelated to the usual MOT testing 
and servicing might be required to ensure the car remained in a good condition.
Usually any repair work carried out to maintain the cars condition wouldnt improve the car 
beyond the price a similar car in good condition might be sold for on the open market. LV 
included the restoration of the engine, gearbox, some body repair, and full body respray in 
its calculations and it applied depreciation and paid 20% of these costs. It therefore paid an 
additional £2,125 for the restoration work to reach its initial valuation of £9,372. However, it 
hasnt explained why it applied 80% depreciation and Im not satisfied it was reasonable to 
do so. This is because, it said the car itself was worth around 10% of its original sales price 
and it had depreciated by 90% since it was purchased 17 years ago. So, I dont think its 
reasonable to apply 80% depreciation, as the work was carried out more recently.
Nevertheless, the terms of the policy only require LV to pay the cost of replacing the car with
a similar one of a similar age and condition, considering the pre-accident value of Mr Hs car.
So, Ive considered whether its offer was fair in light of this.
Mr H says he spent around £17,000 restoring his car. I think its important to take this into
consideration but its difficult to know how much of the work carried out would increase the
price he could have sold his car for. And it doesnt necessarily follow that the value of the car
would increase substantially because of this work.
Although he had a vast amount of work done to the car, considering its age and mileage, I
think its likely that all aspects of the car would have been subject to some level of wear and
tear. LVs engineer said given the high mileage of such a high-performance car a certain
amount of mechanical work would be expected to keep the vehicle in good working order.
And I dont think what he said is unreasonable.
Looking at the invoice Mr H provided for the reconditioning of the engine, I can see part of
this work was to fix a leak, so I think the work was partly required to maintain the car and
wouldnt necessarily increase its value beyond that of a car in good condition. But I accept
that part of the work was solely for restoration purposes. That said, I think the 150,000 miles
on the engine, is still likely to be something a potential buyer would consider when 
comparing it with a similar car that has a lower mileage. Nevertheless, I accept Mr Hs car
was an example of a well-maintained car in very good condition and Ive kept this in mind in
my investigations.
I understand Mr H thinks his car was is worth around £14,000, but Im not persuaded he
would have been able to sell his car for this price in the open market. I consulted a fourth
valuation guide which showed a similar car on sale for £15,000, however this car had only
travelled just over 60,000 miles.
LV said in its research it found similar cars but of a lower mileage priced from £9,000 to 
£12,000. I also carried out my own research and I found the cars closest in specification Mr
Hs were two to three years older than his, but all the cars I found had a lower mileage. The
cars I found were priced between £7,999 and £17,995.
The car on sale for £17,995 had a mileage of around 52,000 miles, which is approximately
100,000 miles less than Mr Hs car, so I think its reasonable to discount this from
calculations. We usually find a fair valuation would fall within the range of figures available 
which its initial offer did.
Nevertheless, LV offered to increase its valuation to £11,500, plus 8% simple interest on the
difference between this amount and its original settlement offer. All things considered, I thinkits offer is fair and reasonable, and I wont ask it to increase it any further.
Claim handling
I appreciate Mr H doesnt think he should have been referred to our service when he was.
But I would expect LV to try to resolve things in a timely manner. It wrote to Mr H on 8
January 2021 with its final answer on his complaint, in the letter it refers him to our service.
While I accept Mr H may have had further questions regarding the valuation, I dont think it
was wrong to have investigated his complaint when it did. This is because, its notes show
that during a phone call with its engineer on 5 January, he expressed dissatisfaction with the
valuation and asked for a complaint to be raised.
I accept that on numerous occasions LVs agents reminded Mr H of his right to bring his
complaint to this service. While I can understand why this might have been frustrating to him,
I dont think its unreasonable it did so, because it wasnt willing to change its settlement offer
which is ultimately what Mr H wanted from LV.
LV later informed Mr H he would be responsible for any further storage charges. An insurer
will try to minimise its costs and I dont think thats unreasonable. Mr H was also aware the
car had been written off and LV informed him of its final offer in January 2021. But it
continued to pay the charges at least until May 2021, and I think thats fair.
I appreciate Mr H doesnt think it should have dealt with his claim in the first instance, but LV
explained its processes to him, and I dont find what it said unusual or unreasonable. Where
a third party is held liable for the accident, the policyholders insurer will usually deal with its
insureds claim and recover costs from the third-partys insurer. So, I dont think it needs to
compensate him for these things.
That said, I found Mr H wasnt always contacted when he shouldve been and there were
several instances of miscommunication. Particularly, in LVs explanation of how it calculated
the cars value. This meant Mr H had further questions about this, and I think the questions
he asked were reasonable. I find LV didnt provide clear answers, especially regarding his
replacement wheels, its calculations relating to the restoration work and in terms of the third-
party insurers details. I think this will have been frustrating and upsetting for him, and meant
he spent a lot of time corresponding with LV. So, I think its right it compensates him for this.
I also agree with what our investigator said, I find the way LVs call agent spoke to Mr H in
November 2020 was not what I would expect. I found the agent unnecessarily defensive and
this made what was already a difficult situation worse. LV also should have dealt with his
personal belongings claim sooner. LV accepts its handling of the claim could have been
better. Taking all this into consideration, I think £300 is fair and reasonable compensation in
all the circumstances..,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV accepted my provision decision and as neither party provided additional comments for 
me to consider, I see no reason to depart from it what Ive said in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint and I require Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to:Increase its valuation to £11,500 and pay Mr H the difference between this figure and what 
its already paid. It should pay 8% simple interest on the difference from the date it paid him 
until it makes the additional payment to him.*
It should also pay Mr H £300 compensation.
*If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman