DRN-4233150
The complaint
Mr R complains about the settlement offered by Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
after an accident involving his car.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr R had car insurance underwritten by Advantage. He made a claim after his car was 
involved in an accident. Advantage decided the car was to be written off.
Advantage then told Mr R he hadnt disclosed information about previous claims when he 
bought the policy. And so, they were intending to settle the claim proportionally. Hed paid 
40% of the premium he ought to have paid, so they were paying 40% of the claim.
Mr R wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Advantage. And when they maintained 
their position, he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it. She thought Advantage were entitled to settle the claim 
proportionally. But they hadnt been able to explain in detail to Mr R - or to us - how theyd 
calculated that hed paid 40% of the premium he would have paid had Advantage been 
aware of the undisclosed claims at the outset.
So, she upheld the complaint and  in the absence of any detailed explanation from 
Advantage about their calculations  asked them to settle the claim in full.
Advantage disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I also disagreed with our investigators view, so I issued a provisional decision. This allowed 
both Mr R and Advantage the chance to provide further information or evidence and/or to 
comment on my thinking before I issue my final decision, which is this services last word on 
the matter.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about the undisclosed claims. Advantage decided  perfectly 
fairly and reasonably - that Mr Rs failure to provide information about those claims 
when he bought the policy was careless rather than reckless or deliberate.
In those circumstances, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) allows an insurer to settle a claim proportionally where, if they had 
known the full facts, they would have offered cover but charged a higher premium.
So, as our investigator said, its beyond any doubt that it was fair and reasonable for 
Advantage to offer a proportional settlement in response to Mr Rs claim.
The question for me in making this decision then, becomes whether Advantage have 
done enough to give both Mr R and our service assurance that the calculation they 
performed  to arrive at the conclusion that Mr R paid 40% of the premium he ought 
to have paid  was accurate, reliable and fair.
Advantage tell us they calculate the premiums they offer to customers using a 
sophisticated, complex and computerised algorithm. This makes a calculation of the 
total premium payable based on a series of sub-calculations which cross-reference a 
large number of factors.
In other words, its not simply a case of saying that, for example, one non-fault claim 
in the previous five years adds X% to the premium, whilst a fault claim in that same 
period adds Y%.
Those factors  in this example, the claims  would add a percentage calculated by 
cross-referencing them to a number of other factors known to Advantage at the time 
the policy was bought.
Advantage are entitled to decide what risk they wish to cover and at what price. And 
theyre entitled to perform those calculations  whether to provide cover and, if so, at 
what annual premium  in the way they see fit.
If they wish to do so using very complex algorithms which cross-reference any 
number of different factors, thats a matter for them.
Our service isnt empowered to tell Advantage what factors they can take into 
account when they calculate risk  or what weighting to give to those factors. In other 
words, their algorithm for calculating risk and premiums is what it is and its not for 
our service to interfere with it.
And so, it would serve little purpose for me to insist, in this case (given the evidence 
we have available to us in this particular case), that Advantage provide us with the 
full detail of the calculations performed by their computerised algorithm.
Advantage have provided us with evidence to show that, when they discovered that 
Mr R had made a misrepresentation when he bought his policy, they calculated what 
his premium was without the undisclosed information and what it would have been 
had they known the full facts.
They did this by entering the two different sets of information into the computer 
system which performs the complex calculations described above  at the same 
point in time and using the same algorithm.
Im satisfied, from the evidence Advantage have provided, that the information they 
entered into the system to perform those calculations was correct. And Im satisfied 
that the premium calculated without the undisclosed claim information was 40% of 
the premium calculated when the undisclosed information was added.
That being the case, Im minded, as things stand, to conclude that Advantage havent 
treated Mr R in any way unfairly or unreasonably in settling his claim proportionally 
based on the premise that he in fact paid only 40% of the premium he ought to have 
paid had the full facts been known.Advantage havent treated Mr R differently to the way any other policyholder would 
have been treated. And Im satisfied theyve used their systems accurately and 
reliably to arrive at the proportional settlement they offered to Mr R.
And for those reasons, I said I was minded not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
Advantage havent responded to my provisional decision at all. I assume because they 
agree with it and have nothing more to add.
Mr R responded very briefly. Mainly to say that he was also unhappy with the way the car 
had been handled whilst it was with the recovery service appointed by Advantage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve made Mr R aware that if hes unhappy with the way the car was handled after the 
accident, hell need to make a new complaint to Advantage about that issue. Its not 
something I can consider in this decision because Mr R didnt raise it raise it as part of this 
complaint, either with Advantage or with us.
So, theres nothing to make me change my mind about the outcome suggested in my 
provisional decision. Ive looked again at the evidence we have on file and Im entirely 
satisfied that Advantage havent treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably in the way they 
handled and settled his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Rs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman