DRN-3788545
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt agree to port her mortgage, which has 
resulted in an early repayment charge (ERC) and other financial loss.
What happened
Ms B held a fixed rate mortgage with HSBC which she was tied into until 
30 September 2025. Ms B says she was going through a difficult divorce and had some 
health concerns, so, after having already taken payment deferrals, she decided to sell her 
home to release some funds. Ms Bs mortgage account was settled on 29 September 2021 
and she was charged an ERC of £24,326.64. Ms B intended to port her mortgage after this 
and understood the ERC would be refunded.
Ms B found a new property she wanted to buy and applied for a new mortgage on 
13 December 2021. HSBC considered Ms Bs application but said it couldnt lend her a new 
mortgage at this point in time due to adverse credit showing on her credit file. Ms B says her 
and her daughter were left homeless and she lost a lot of money as she had to find rental 
accommodation for them at short notice. Ms B has been unable to purchase a new property 
since, so she has also lost the ERC amount. Ms B says her income hasnt changed and so 
she thinks HSBCs decision not to lend to her is unfair considering it was aware of the difficult 
circumstances shed faced.
HSBC looked into Ms Bs concerns and said it had been clear that she would have to submit 
a new application for a mortgage and that all of the normal checks would need to be 
completed. Unfortunately, due to adverse credit showing on her credit file, HSBC was unable 
to lend to her. As Ms B couldnt port her mortgage within six months, it was unable to refund 
the ERC. But, HSBC asked Ms B to check that her credit file was correct in terms of her 
mortgage  the only product she held with HSBC. HSBC says Ms B didnt provide anything 
further on this, so it was unable to reconsider its position.
Our investigator looked into Ms Bs concerns, but they didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. As Ms B disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to a call Ms B made on 10 August 2021 to enquire about porting her mortgage. 
During the call, the business representative confirmed that the mortgage was portable, and 
that Ms B would have six months to complete on a new property after the sale of her existing 
property. Ms B specifically asked if the business would carry out a credit check. The 
representative confirmed any application would be treated as completely new and it would 
go through a full credit check. 
Ms B explained her ex-husband had not been making maintenance payments, so she had 
had to take payment deferrals. She went on to say her credit rating was quite low, so she 
wanted to take some money out and clear her credit cards. Ms B suggested it might be best 
if she moved into rental accommodation and sorted out her credit score before submitting an 
application. The representative said it would be a full credit check and if it declined HSBC 
wouldnt be able to offer her a mortgage, so it might be best for her to improve her credit file 
first. 
The representative reconfirmed Ms B would need to complete on the new property within six 
months of redeeming the mortgage to get a refund on her ERC. Ms B summarised 
everything shed need to do to get the ERC refunded. So, Ive thought about everything 
Ms Bs said, but I think she was made aware she could only port her mortgage product if her 
application for a new mortgage was successful. And that she would have to go through 
affordability checks before that could happen. Ms B was also already aware she had 
adverse records on her credit file, so I think she knew there was a risk she may not be 
approved for a new mortgage.
Ms B says HSBC hasnt treated her fairly because it was aware she was going through a 
difficult divorce and that she had experienced ill health. I empathise with what Ms Bs said 
about that, but HSBC did agree to payment deferrals to help her during that time. And HSBC 
is entitled to assess the risk of offering a new mortgage based on its lending criteria. HSBC 
has explained why it couldnt lend to Ms B and I wouldnt expect it to do more than that.
Ms B confirmed in the call, prior to selling her existing home, that her intention was to move 
into rental accommodation while she improved her credit score. So, I dont think HSBC has 
caused her to become homeless or that it can be held responsible for the additional costs 
involved in that decision. I understand Ms B has ended up renting for longer than she 
intended to. But this is because she was unable to improve her credit file enough to meet 
HSBCs lending criteria before the six-month period to complete had expired.
Ms B has since said her credit file was still positive overall, but this is not what she said 
during the call. HSBC completed a soft search of her credit file before declining her 
application and there was enough information from that to prevent it agreeing to a new 
mortgage. HSBC offered to review Ms Bs credit file if she provided a copy of it. HSBC said it 
would check whether it was responsible for any of the adverse information on her file and 
correct it if there were any mistakes. This service also asked for a copy, but Ms B hasnt 
provided her credit file to HSBC or to this service. 
Ms B explained during the call that she was concerned about some credit cards she held 
with third party providers and she confirmed she intended to pay them off to improve her 
credit file. HSBC tried to help Ms B when it offered to review the file, but it wasnt made 
aware of any adverse data it was responsible for and it cant be held responsible for entries 
made by third party lenders. As Ive said above, HSBC is entitled to take what has been 
reported into account when considering Ms Bs application for lending. So, if HSBC decided 
not to offer Ms B a new mortgage because of what it saw on her credit file, Ms B would not 
be entitled to a refund of the ERC.
Ms B says she had no trouble meeting her contractual monthly payments on the mortgage 
she had, so she believes she should have been able to port her mortgage product on that 
basis. But, in that case, Ms B also could have chosen to remain in her existing home until 
the fixed rate ended or until she was sure her credit file had improved. Ms B decided it 
worked out better to sell her home even though she was already concerned about applying 
for new lending because of her credit file, and that was her choice.In summary, considering everything, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong. I say this 
because Ms B was aware she would have to pay an ERC if she ended her agreement early 
and didnt port her mortgage on time. HSBC made it clear that a new application would be 
required and that her credit file would be considered as part of that process. Ms B knew that 
her credit file had been impacted on by factors outside of HSBCs control and that this could 
affect her ability to borrow. But Ms B decided to sell her home and move into rental 
accommodation anyway. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman