DRN-3066559
The complaint
 Mr K complains that he was misled by a message from Creation Financial Services Limited
(Creation).
What happened
 Mr K had an account with Creation. He took a payment holiday in April 2020 which was due 
to expire on 28 August 2020. On 24 August 2020, Creation sent him a text which said, As 
youre on a payment holidaywe wont be taking your usual monthly payment..
Mr K complained. Because of the text, he missed a payment to Creation and a late payment 
marker was recorded on his credit file. He was concerned about the effect on his credit 
rating. When he called Creation on 28 September 2020, he felt his complaint wasnt taken 
seriously and he felt mocked. He thinks Creation put pressure on him to extend the payment 
holiday.
Creation responded to Mr Ks complaint in November 2020. They said Mr Ks payment 
holiday was due to expire in August 2020  and if he wanted to extend it, he should call 
them. This was why they texted him. They didnt uphold his complaint. Mr K then contacted 
Creation again and in March 2021, they accepted that the text message wasnt accurate. 
They agreed to amend his credit file and paid him compensation of £60.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. He didnt think that the compensation was high enough. 
Our investigator said she agreed  and that a further £50 should be paid. Creation had 
amended Mr Ks credit file and addressed his financial loss with a payment of £60. On the 
call, Creation said this wasnt available  but they had said in March 2021 that theyd 
listened to it  so it must have been kept. So, she couldnt say whether it was handled well, 
or not. Overall, she felt that Creation should do more. Mr K had received conflicting 
information from Creation  and this had caused him upset and stress. And  he then had to 
challenge Creations response to his complaint to try to get the right outcome. And all this 
meant that his credit file contained the wrong information for a period, all of which caused Mr 
K concern.
Creation accepted our investigators view, but Mr K didnt. He rejected the recommendation
of £50 and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
The issue of compensation is a subjective one. Our current policy is to award payment up to 
£100 where a business has apologised straight away and put things right effectively. Where 
a customer has had to spend a lot more effort in getting to a fair and reasonable outcome, 
then we tend to award more  and thats what I think happened here.
Ive looked at Mr Ks complaint. On 24 August 2020, he received a text message which said 
he didnt need to pay anything that month, so he didnt. But  Creation then said he hadnt 
paid that months instalment and put a marker on his credit file. So  that was clearly an 
error by Creation. So  Mr K complained.
But  Creations final response to Mr K was that they hadnt done anything wrong  they said 
simply that Mr Ks payment break was due to expire in August 2020, and Once your 
payment break was due to expire, you would have had to call us to inform us of your 
financial situation. As your offer was coming to an end, we sent a text message to inform you 
of this In view of the above, I am unable to uphold your complaint as the correct process 
was followed.. So  Creation had a chance to deal with their error then but didnt. This 
meant that Mr K had to challenge them again to try to get a fair response. And so, in March 
2021, they agreed that the text in August 2020 was misleading and paid compensation of 
£60 and set the wheels in motion to amend Mr Ks credit file. But  this took several months 
longer than it needed to  during which time Mr Ks credit file contained a late payment 
marker. And  even when a business asks for a credit file to be changed, it can take several 
weeks for that to take place.
Mr K told us he received some declined credit applications during this time  but neither he, 
nor we, can be sure if this was due to the marker on his credit file. Lenders make lending 
decisions based on a number of criteria of which the credit file is one  but I think I can say - 
it wouldnt have helped. So  during this time, Mr K was concerned about his credit rating.
Mr K says the call he made to Creation on 28 September 2020 about his complaint was 
badly handled. He told us he felt mocked and felt that he wasnt taken seriously. Creation 
said theyd listened to the call and in their view, that wasnt the case. But  when we asked 
for the call, they couldnt provide it. They showed us the search information to confirm it 
wasnt available. So, we cant make a judgement on that aspect of Mr Ks complaint  but I 
would note that its strange that the call cant be provided when Creation have said theyve 
listened to it themselves.
So, in the circumstances of this complaint, I do think that a higher amount of compensation 
is justified. And, in line with what this service would expect to see  I think Creation should 
pay a further £150 to Mr K. This in addition to the £60 that Creation have already paid. It 
should be paid to Mr Ks bank account, rather than to his account with Creation.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Creation accepted my findings. Mr K made the point that it was disappointing that Creation 
couldnt evidence the call, but he accepted the findings.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
(continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Creation and Mr K accepted my findings, I wont be departing from my provisional 
decision and for the reasons I gave in it. And so  Creation must do what I recommended.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. And Creation Financial Services Limited must:
Pay compensation of £150 to Mr K. This is in addition to the £60 already paid and 
should be credited to his bank account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman