DRN-3627447
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
What happened
Miss C says that she approached an ice-cream seller Ill refer to as S while he was working 
and enquired about starting her own business in the same trade. S told Miss C he could help 
but he needed her to demonstrate she had the funds to do so. Miss C says some plans were 
discussed at different meetings. She made the following cash payments to S (from her 
savings account) to show she had funds:
Date Amount
24/06/21 £500
25/06/21 £2,000
26/06/21 £2,000
Total cash £4,500
Miss C didnt know exactly how the funds would be used but trusted S as he shared 
personal details about his life. After shed handed the cash to S he disappeared, and Miss C 
took steps to find him. On 21 July 2021 S contacted Miss C and said his car had been 
clamped and provided her with a photograph. He asked for further funds that he said hed 
repay and possibly further funds towards the business, although this isnt clear. Miss C made 
the following transfers to S from her savings account with Barclays:
Date Amount
21/07/21 £1,156.83
26/07/21 £2,000
29/07/21 £4,000
16/08/21 £2,000
16/08/21 £5,000
16/08/21 £5,000
Total 
transferred£19,156.83
Total loss £23,656.83
When Miss C asked S how things were going with the set-up of the new business he didnt 
reply and she realised she was the victim of a scam. She reported the scam to Barclays on 
27 September 2021. 
Barclays initially said Miss C was responsible for her full loss. When Miss C complained, 
Barclays refunded 50% of all the transfers together with interest on the refunded amount (a 
total of £9,578.42) and £100 compensation in respect of the service it provided. Barclays 
also confirmed that it contacted the receiving bank promptly, but no funds remained. 
Miss C wasnt happy with Barclays response and so raised a complaint with this service.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
the CRM Code doesnt apply to the cash withdrawals and there was nothing unusual about 
them to alert Barclays to the risk Miss C may be the victim of a scam. The investigator then 
considered how the CRM Code applied to the bank transfers. She noted Barclays had 
already refunded 50% of all the transfers because it could have done more to prevent the 
payments, and said Miss C wasnt entitled to a full refund because she didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing she was making payments for a genuine business. And whilst 
some of the later payments may have been unusual so that Barclays should have 
intervened, Miss C was partly responsible for her own loss  meaning Barclays shouldnt 
refund anything more. The investigator also said she was satisfied Barclays had done what it 
could to recover Miss Cs funds promptly. 
Barclays accepted the investigators view, but Miss C did not. In summary, she said:
- The payments were initially related to the business and later S reassured Miss C that 
the funds would be returned to her, but this didnt happen. 
- S abused and threatened her and had friends she was scared of. Because of this she 
was vulnerable and couldnt protect herself from the scam. 
- Barclays should have done more to protect her savings.
- The scam has had a huge impact on her and she can no longer trust anyone.
The complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but Im not upholding her complaint. I know shes been the 
victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant impact on 
her. But I dont believe Barclays has acted unreasonably in refunding half of all the transfers 
Miss C made. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered if the 
transactions are covered by the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), and whether Barclays should have reimbursed 
Miss C under the provisions of it. Ive gone on to consider whether Barclays ought to have 
done more to protect Miss C from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The cash withdrawals
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and 
help to prevent, payments that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. Im not persuaded Barclays should have done anything more when Miss C made the cash 
withdrawals. I say this because I dont consider the withdrawals were so unusual and out of 
character that Barclays should have had concerns and asked additional questions about 
them. The amounts were relatively low in value compared with normal account activity and 
left the account with a significant balance still. And in March 2021, just months before the 
first cash withdrawal, Miss C transferred nearly £80,000 from the account. So I dont 
consider the cash withdrawals would have stood out as being suspicious  particularly as 
they were from a savings account. It is common to build up savings in such an account to 
fund larger purchases. 
Also, although the cash was withdrawn in branch Miss C used self-service machines so 
there was no interaction with branch staff. 
The transfers to S and the CRM Code
I have some reservations about whether all the transfers Miss C made to S were scam 
payments or whether they relate to a civil dispute between Miss C and S. I say this because 
it seems that all the transfers from and including 29 July 2021 are recorded on Miss Cs bank 
statement as loans and the messages Miss S has provided show that S asked her to lend 
him money. In the end though, I dont think it matters as I consider Barclays doesnt need to 
do anything more. 
Under the CRM Code, Miss C should be reimbursed despite exceptions applying, if she was 
vulnerable to the extent that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect her to protect herself from 
the particular scam she fell victim to. From what Ive seen, I dont think this applies to Miss 
C. I understand that Miss C suffered some bereavements that will have had an impact on 
her. Whilst Im sorry to hear about whats happened, Im not persuaded Miss C was unable 
to protect herself from this scam. No evidence to this effect has been provided either. 
Miss C has also said S threatened her. She has provided some text messages exchanged 
with S, but none of them give any indication of threats of violence. Miss C also didnt mention 
threats to Barclays. And if Miss C did have concerns about her safety, she could have 
contacted the police rather than make further payments. This is a step Miss C later took so 
Im uncertain why she didnt do so sooner. I also consider it unusual that Miss C says when 
S disappeared between the cash payments and the transfers, she asked others for his 
mobile number so that she could speak to him. If Miss C was scared of S this seems like a 
strange decision. 
Ive gone on to consider Miss Cs claim under the CRM Code. Theres no dispute that Miss 
C was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt enough for her to receive a full refund 
of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Miss C too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 The customer has been grossly negligent 
*Further exceptions are outlined in the CRM Code but do not apply to this case. 
Did Miss C have a reasonable basis to believe she was making legitimate payments.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
C and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Barclays has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Miss C made are enough to support its position that she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I dont 
think she had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine goods or that 
the person she transacted with was legitimate. This means that Miss C isnt entitled to a full 
refund of her loss under the CRM Code. Ill explain why I have reached this conclusion. 
- Miss C placed a lot of trust in someone she met in person only a few times and she 
didnt know for long. She didnt do any checks in respect of S or his business before 
agreeing to give S cash and to transfer funds. 
- Miss C didnt understand what the payments to S were for, which I consider should 
have concerned her and led her to ask S for evidence of what her funds were being 
used for. 
- There was no contract or other documentation to satisfy Miss C she was engaging in 
a genuine business venture. Genuine business deals clearly set out the terms of any 
agreement and the nature of any payments in writing.
- Miss C continued to make payments without seeing her business develop in any 
way. 
- After shed handed cash to S he disappeared for around three weeks and then asked 
Miss C to loan him money. This ought reasonably to have led Miss C to have serious 
concerns about whether S genuinely intended to help her. 
Did Barclays meet its obligations under the CRM code? 
Even though I dont think Miss C had a reasonable basis for belief when she made the 
transfers, she may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money she lost if Barclays didnt 
meet its obligations under the CRM Code  one of which is to provide effective warnings. 
Barclays has already refunded 50% of all the transactions covered by the CRM Code. This 
means that Barclays has already refunded the maximum amount I would award if I was 
persuaded that Barclays didnt meet its obligations under the CRM Code. Given this, Im not 
considering Barclays obligations under the CRM Code any further. 
Should Barclays have done more to protect Miss C? 
When Miss C made the payments, Barclays should fairly and reasonably have had systems 
in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that she was at 
risk of fraud (among other things). If I felt Barclays hadnt done enough to protect Miss C 
when she made the payment requests, Id ask it to refund 50% of those payments. This is 
because, for the reasons Ive set out above in relation to Miss Cs reasonable basis for 
belief, Im satisfied she should share responsibility for the loss. Barclays has already 
refunded 50% of all the transfers plus interest. As this is the maximum amount Id award if I 
felt Barclays didnt do enough to protect Miss C, I see no merit in reaching a finding on this.  
Miss C said that Barclays didnt warn her she was transferring funds to a scammer. This isnt 
information Barclays had at the time of the payment requests though. And in any event, as 
Ive explained above, she would not be entitled to more than the 50% Barclays has already 
refunded. 
Recovery 
Ive also considered whether Barclays could have done more to try to recover the money 
once it was told of the scam. This service expects a business to take reasonable steps to try 
to recover funds from the bank it was sent to. Barclays has shown that it contacted the bank 
that received Miss Cs funds within an hour of being notified of the scam. In the 
circumstances, I consider Barclays acted reasonably. 
ServiceBarclays has paid Miss C £100 because it initially declined her claim under the CRM Code. It 
has also paid interest on the amount refunded to put Miss C in the position she would have 
been in if it had agreed to refund 50% of her loss when she first raised a claim. In doing so, I 
consider Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably and so I wont be asking it to pay anything 
more. I recognise the scam has had a significant impact on Miss C, but it is the scammer 
who has caused most of this and not Barclays. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman