DRN-3952939
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain that West Bay Insurance Plcs handling of a claim made on their 
motor insurance policy caused a County Court Judgement (CCJ) to be issued against Mr A. 
Mr A is a named driver on Mrs As policy. They wants further compensation for the impact 
this had. 
What happened
Mr A was involved in an incident and a fault claim was recorded against him. The other 
drivers insurer asked West Bay to reimburse it for the cost of car seats damaged in the 
incident. The other insurer then instructed solicitors to take legal action to recover this cost. 
But West Bay didnt defend this and so a CCJ was recorded against Mr A. A year later, Mr A 
found that the CCJ was on his credit file and had led to his credit card being withdrawn and a 
loan refused. 
West Bay had the CCJ removed and sent Mr A a Certification of Satisfaction. But he said 
this wasnt received. And he said this and a cheque for £500 compensation was sent to his 
old address. West Bay then sent the Certificate and a further cheque for £250 to Mr As new 
address. Mrs A said they hadnt received the Certificate. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought West 
Bay had acted to correct the error when it was notified. And she thought its payment of £750 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused was fair and reasonable. She saw that Mr A 
had now received and cashed both cheques. 
Mrs A replied that they still hadnt received the Certificate. She thought a further £250 
compensation was warranted for West Bay not recording their change of address and the 
subsequent stress caused by the CCJ. She was concerned about a breach of their privacy.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
West Bay said it should have reimbursed the other insurer for its costs. It said it should have 
instructed its solicitors to defend the action against Mr A threatened by the other insurer 
when West Bay hadnt reimbursed its costs. This would have prevented a CCJ being 
recorded. 
Then when Mr A told West Bay about the CCJ, it took it a month to instruct its solicitors to 
act, and a further month for it to send the solicitors its file. The solicitors then sent a 
Certificate of Satisfaction to the court. And it asked for the CCJ to be set aside. It was a 
further two months before this was done and the credit file was corrected. So Mr A had to 
wait for four months to have the CCJ removed. 
West Bay also said it sent the Certificate and first cheque to Mr As old address. Ive looked 
at its later letters and can see that these were sent to Mrs As correct address. So I cant say 
why Mrs A didnt receive the Certificate. 
The effect of the CCJ was that Mr As credit card was withdrawn, and a bank loan to pay off 
the credit card balance was declined. They had to borrow money from a family member to 
clear the debt. Mrs A said the matter had caused stress and anxiety. She was also upset 
that West Bay had sent post to their old address which they had left three years ago, and 
this caused added frustration. Mrs A was concerned that their data privacy may have been 
breached, but I havent seen any evidence to show this. 
When a business makes a mistake, as West Bay accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
To restore Mr As position, I can see that West Bay had the CCJ marker removed from his 
credit file. Mrs A confirmed that this has been removed. And our Investigator has provided 
her with a copy of the Certificate of Satisfaction. So I think this restores Mrs A and Mr As 
position. 
In terms of impact, West Bay has paid Mrs A and Mr A £750 in total compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. I think this is in keeping with the level wed award for the impact 
the errors caused, as explained in our published guidance. So Im satisfied that this is fair 
and reasonable compensation, and I dont require West Bay to increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman