DRN-3231477
The complaint
Miss W complains Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans that she couldnt afford to 
repay.
 
What happened
Miss W took five home collected loans between June 2019 and May 20201 Ive included 
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
dateloan repayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 20/06/2019 03/09/2019 20 £7.50
2 £300.00 03/09/2019 11/12/2020 33 £15.00
3 £100.00 19/11/2019 11/12/2020 34 £5.00
4 £300.00 05/03/2021 outstanding 34 £15.00
5 £200.00 24/05/2021 outstanding 35 £10.00
The statement of account provided to the Financial Ombudsman from Morses shows that 
Miss W has had problems repaying her final two loans and as of October 2021 an 
outstanding balance remained.
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan, so where loans overlapped 
the cost per week will be more. For example, when loans 2 and 3 were running Miss Ws 
weekly commitment to Morses was £20. 
Morses considered Miss Ws complaint and issued its final response letter on this matter in 
August 2021. Morses investigated the complaint and concluded it hadnt made an error 
when it approved loans 1 and 2 for Miss W. 
But Morses agreed that it shouldve made further enquiries into Miss Ws financial position 
when loans 3  5 were granted and so it upheld her complaint about these loans. It offered 
to refund the interest, fees and charges and offset this against the balance that Miss W had 
for loans 4 and 5. The result was that Miss Ws balance would reduce to £181.16. 
Morses also agreed to remove these loans from Miss Ws credit file. 
Miss W didnt agree with the outcome reached by Morses and she referred the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman in August 2021. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt consider loans 3  5 because 
Morses, in its final response letter had already accepted something had gone wrong and had 
already made an offer to put things right. She concluded the offer Morses had made was in 
line with what the Financial Ombudsman may have awarded if it had decided that these 
loans should be upheld. 
The adjudicator didnt think it was unreasonable for Morses to have provided loans 1 and 2 
because it was apparent to Morses that the loans were affordable and given it was early in 
the lending relationship she didnt think Morses needed to have verified the information Miss 
W had provided. She didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
Morses didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss W appears to not have accepted the adjudicators conclusions. Miss W wasnt sure 
why, if Morses had accepted the loans ought to not have been advanced, that she still owes 
it money. 
The adjudicator went back to Miss W to explain that by offering the redress that Morses had, 
it was in effect giving her an interest free loan. Later, she also asked what Miss W was 
unhappy with, the redress that was being offered or the outcome of loans 1 and 2. 
Miss W responded, to say that Morses should do more of a credit check to see if there 
credit is at a good rate. Miss W also says that her financial position is such, that she cant 
afford to repay what is owed. 
Sometime later, the Financial Ombudsman heard form a third-party claims management 
company. After speaking to Miss W, she confirmed she wanted the third party to act on her 
behalf. This company has now been added to her complaint.
At the same time, Miss W has told us Morses had sold her debt onto a third party. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss 
Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss W. These factors include:
Miss W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss W.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss W was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ws complaint.
I wont make a finding about loans 3 - 5, because Morses has already agreed these loans 
shouldnt have been advanced. I appreciate Miss W says the amount that is due to be paid 
is unaffordable, and again, Id remind Mores of its obligation to treat Miss W fairly and with 
forbearance when discussing a way forward.  
For completeness, Ive included what Morses needs to do to put things right (and what it has 
agreed to do) for Miss W in relation to loans 3-5 at the end of this decision. 
Instead, Ive focussed below on what happens when loans 1 and 2 were granted. 
Loans 1 and 2
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint about these loans, and I agree with her, 
based on the evidence that Ive seen from both Morses and Miss W.  
For these loans Miss W declared she had a weekly income of between £184 and £195. And 
her declared weekly expenditure was declared as being between £74 and £75.50. This left 
Miss W with a weekly disposable income of between £108.50 and £121. Which was more 
than sufficient to afford the largest contractual repayments due under loan 2 of £15 per 
week. 
Morses may have carried out a credit search before these loans were approved, but it hasnt 
given the Financial Ombudsman the results from this. The only results it has given us is for 
the one it carried out before loan 3 was approved. But the information contained within 
wouldve covered the same period as to when loans 1 and 2 were approved. 
Ive reviewed the results and there doesnt appear to have been anything contained within 
them, such as Country Court Judgements, defaults or other  adverse information which may 
have prompted Mores either to make further enquires with Miss W or to have declined her 
first two loan applications. 
Based on the information Miss W declared Morses couldve been confident she was in a 
position to afford the contractual repayments she was due to make for these loans. Given 
this was in the early part of the lending relationship, I think the checks that Morses did were 
proportionate and it didnt need to do any further checks before agreeing to these loans. 
There also wasnt anything else that Morses may have been aware of that may have 
indicated to it that Miss W was or likely having financial difficulties. I accept that Miss W had some problems repaying loan 2 and it took significantly longer than Morses had anticipated 
to repay this loan. But based on what Ive seen, there wasnt anything else prior to this to 
indicate that miss W may have been having problems. 
Ive also thought about that loan 2 was taken out on the same day loan 1 was repaid and it 
was for a larger amount. But the weekly repayment was still fairly modest, and there didnt 
appear to have been any repayment problems when repaying loan 1. So, overall, I think it 
was reasonable for Morses to still have relied on the information Miss W provided it. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint about loans 1 and 2.
Loans 3 - 5
As I said at the start of the decision, I wont comment further on whether Morses was right or 
wrong to approve these loans because it has already accepted that something did go wrong 
when these were advanced. So, there is nothing further for me to decide in relation to this 
lending. 
What I would say, is that Morses has agreed to settle these loans in line with the well-
established approach the Financial Ombudsman takes, and I see no reason why, in this 
case, this approach should be departed form. 
Should it be decided that loans shouldnt be given, as far as possible the approach the 
Financial Ombudsman Service takes is to put a consumer back into the position they 
wouldve been in had the error (in this case the loans being advanced) not been made. 
However, that isnt always possible as is the case here. Miss W has been advanced money 
which has been spent so its not possible, to just unwind these loans as if they didnt happen 
because there is, potentially outstanding principal that ordinarily ought to have been repaid. 
It is far less complex to pay compensation for loans that have been advanced and repaid. 
So, what I do think is fair, is that any loan that has been lent and repaid (such as loan 3) then 
Miss W shouldnt have paid any interest, fees and charges towards it. Which the offer 
Morses has made does do. 
Where loans have been taken out and not repaid, I dont think it is fair that Morses should be 
able to collect more than the capital amount loaned. So, for loans 4 and 5, Morses cant 
collect more than £500  as it isnt fair that Morses charges or applies interest, fees or 
charges to these loan balances. In effect, it is providing Miss W with interest free lending. 
But there is an expectation that any capital that is advanced is repaid.
Looking at the redress that Morses has offered on these loans Im satisfied the offer to put 
things right is in line with the approach that I wouldve taken had I decided that these loans 
ought to not have been advanced. Ive outlined below, what Morses needs to do (and what it 
has agreed to do) in order to put thighs right for Miss W. 
Im sorry to hear about Miss Ws financial position, and that repaying the final outstanding 
balance may prove difficult. But, Morses has an obligation to treat her positively and with 
forbearance when coming to any agreement in repaying what is owed. 
I acknowledge that Miss W is likely to be disappointed by this outcome, but I hope my 
explanation has provided useful as to why Ive reached the conclusions that I have. 
Putting things rightMorses has already accepted that loans 3 - 5 shouldnt have been provided and Ive outlined 
below what it has already agreed to do to put things right for Miss W  as outlined in the final 
response letter. 
If Morses have sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss W towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss W 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss W as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss W 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance(s) then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any 
principal Morses may have already written-off. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Miss W. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then you should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss W. 
E. As Morses has agreed in the final response letter, it should remove loans 3  5 from 
Miss Ws credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
If an outstanding balance(s) remains Id remind Morses of its obligation to treat Miss W with 
fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint about loans 1 
and 2. But Morses Club PLC should put things right for Miss W as it agreed to do in the final 
response letter and as directed above for loans 3 - 5. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman