DRN-2503301
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Unum Ltd turned down her income protection claim.
What happened
Mrs F is covered under her employers group income protection policy. The aim of the policy 
is to pay a monthly benefit in the event the insured becomes unable to work because of 
illness or injury. The policy has a deferred period of 26 weeks. 
In May 2018, Mrs F stopped work. She submitted a claim to Unum, however this was turned 
down because Unum didnt think Mrs F had a medical condition that was preventing her from 
working. Mrs F disagreed with Unums findings and so brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Mrs Fs symptoms did prevent her from working. He therefore 
recommended that Unum accept the claim.
Unum didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
the member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that the member is:
(a) unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the Insured occupation
For me to require Unum to accept the claim, Mrs F would need to show that she was unable 
to perform her role because of illness throughout the deferred period. 
I see that Mrs F was signed off by her GP with work-related stress. Mrs F accepts that work-
related stress isnt an illness, but says that her workplace problems were the trigger for her 
symptoms of anxiety which she continued to experience, despite being absent from work.
Mrs F has described the situation in her workplace that led to her stopping work. The 
particular situation she has described was related to an issue with her employer, however it 
does appear to have been a catalyst for her symptoms of anxiety. Ill explain why.
If Mrs F were not experiencing a mental health condition (as Unum says), then I think it 
would be reasonable to have expected her anxiety symptoms to have resolved when she 
was away from workplace (and the stressful situation), but they didnt. Instead she continued 
to experience those symptoms, and was started on a treatment plan as a result. That 
treatment plan included group cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) for stress, one-to-one 
counselling, and antidepressant medication. 
Mrs F was reviewed regularly by an occupational health adviser (Ms L) throughout the 
deferred period, and beyond. Ms L thought that Mrs F was suffering the significant effects of 
a stress-related illness during that period. She commented on the high level of anxiety that 
Mrs F continued to experience and how this affected her mood, ability to go out on her own, 
her sleep, and concentration levels. Ms L was of the view that Mrs F was unfit for work 
throughout the deferred period as a result. 
I also note that, despite Mrs Fs GP stating she was off work because of work-related stress 
on her sick notes, the GP diagnosed Mrs F with anxiety and depression within the deferred 
period. Because of this, the GP thought Mrs F should start on antidepressant medication. 
Mrs Fs medication was then increased over the following months, to help her find an 
appropriate dose to manage her symptoms.
One of Mrs Fs GPs provided some further clarification to Unum in October 2018. She said 
that antidepressant medication was started due to Mrs Fs ongoing anxiety, tearfulness and 
low mood, in spite of her accessing a counsellor and completing a CBT course. 
Mrs Fs GPs have also provided further clarification to this service. The GP said they would 
never start an anti-depressant such as the one prescribed to Mrs F for work stress. And that 
although work stress was the trigger, anxiety was the main cause of Mrs Fs absence from 
work. 
Given Mrs Fs ongoing symptoms of anxiety throughout the deferred period, I think it would 
have been helpful if Unum had arranged for her to be assessed by a mental health specialist 
at the time. However, I agree with Unum that it wouldnt be appropriate to now arrange this, 
given the time thats passed since the end of the deferred period. 
After the deferred period had ended, Mrs F started receiving treatment from a 
psychotherapist (Ms M). Ms M has explained that she first saw Mrs F in May 2019 and that 
she presented with ongoing symptoms of depression and associated severe anxiety. She 
noted that Mrs F had long-standing issues with depression, and had recently had a relapse 
which had developed into an associated anxiety disorder. 
Ms M explained that Mrs F had presented with symptoms of depression, low mood, lethargy, 
lack of motivation, poor sleep, negative thoughts and beliefs, and tearfulness and self-
criticism. And that as a result of her depression, she had become fearful of going out and 
had become quite reclusive. Ms M concluded by saying that Mrs F was incapacitated for 
many months and wasnt able to function on a day-to-day level at home, let alone any 
workplace of any kind. But that through her extended course of therapy, she had made a 
good recovery and had returned to work.
Although Mrs F wasnt under the care of a specialist during the deferred period, I think 
theres sufficient evidence to support that she was experiencing symptoms of a mental 
health condition throughout that period. Whilst she was initially treated for workplace stress, 
as her symptoms persisted despite the initial CBT treatment, her GP considered a medical 
intervention was necessary as it was thought Mrs F was experiencing anxiety and 
depression. She was therefore started on antidepressant medication, which was then 
increased over the following months.
Whilst Mrs F only started seeing Ms M after the deferred period ended, I think Ms Ms 
evidence is still useful. Ms M made it clear that she didnt think Mrs F could work based upon 
the symptoms she was experiencing. Given that there appears to have been little change in 
Mrs Fs symptoms since the deferred period, it seems reasonable to conclude that Mrs Fs 
symptoms prevented her from working throughout the deferred period too.On balance, Im satisfied Mrs F has shown that she meets the definition of incapacity for her 
claim to be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Unum Ltd to pay Mrs Fs claim. It 
should add interest to any outstanding benefit payments at the simple rate of 8% per annum 
from the date each benefit payment was due to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman