DRN-3387307
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) blocked  transactions and 
then cancelled his debit  card leading to a lost investment. He would like more compensation 
than NatWest has offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
NatWest explained it blocked Mr Cs transactions in line with its fraud protection 
measures. Its terms and conditions allow it to do this. And these measures are there 
to protect customers  As NatWest acted in accordance with its terms and conditions  
I dont feel its reasonable for it to cover any potential investment loss Mr C may have 
incurred as  a result of his transactions not having gone through.
NatWest accepts its member of staff didnt make Mr C aware of why the transactions 
had been declined but should have done so. It has apologised for this and for the fact 
Mr Cs card was subsequently reported as lost or stolen. It cant explain the card was 
reported in this way , it may simply have been human error. But I have no evidence 
that the card was cancelled deliberately as Mr C has suggested.
NatWest has already paid Mr C £85 compensation for the inconvenience of not 
properly explaining why his transactions were blocked and for cancelling his card. It 
has agreed to pay a further £35 giving a total of £120 . I think its fair for NatWest to 
compensate Mr C as its actions did cause Mr C some inconvenience..
Mr C has told us because of NatWests actions he was left without any funds to buy 
basics such as groceries for approximately a week. I am surprised he couldnt access 
his funds or possibly other funds by alternate means. I do appreciate Mr Cs other 
point about the inconvenience with setting up new payment details for subscription 
services but think the total of £120 compensation is sufficient for the inconvenience in 
this situation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement National 
Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr C an additional £35 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman