DRN-3500378
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wouldnt allow them to 
move their mortgage to a lower interest rate or agree to capitalise the arrears on their 
mortgage account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with Halifax and in 2007 increased their total borrowing on the 
mortgage to approximately £320,000. The mortgage offer letter from the time confirms the 
term of the mortgage would be 21 years and it was set up on a part capital repayment and 
part interest only basis. The existing part of their mortgage  approximately £275,000  was  
on a fixed rate that was due to end on 30 November 2008 and the new part  approximately 
£45,000  was set up on a Bank of England base rate tracker until the end of the repayment 
period.
Mr and Mrs B say their business failed in 2012 due to two of their customers not paying 
them. As a result, Mr and Mrs B fell behind on their mortgage payments and they received 
regular letters from Halifax saying their home would be repossessed if they dont keep up 
with repayments. They say they asked Halifax if the arrears could be capitalised and were 
told it couldnt help until Mr and Mrs B cleared the arrears. They made a payment to clear 
the arrears in October 2020 and subsequently agreed a new rate and their contractual 
monthly payment dropped by almost half of what theyd been paying. They say they would 
have done more to clear the arrears earlier  such as borrow the money  if theyd known 
the impact it would have had, but Halifax didnt help them through that stressful time while 
the mortgage was in arrears. So, they complained to Halifax.
In its final response letter dated 20 October 2020, Halifax said it was satisfied it had acted 
correctly and that it had provided the necessary support when Mr and Mrs B were in arrears. 
It explained that Mr and Mrs B were not eligible for a new interest rate product while their 
mortgage account was in arrears. So, it wouldnt have proactively offered that as an option 
or informed them of lower rates.
Halifax said it has a duty of care while Mr and Mrs Bs account was in arrears to ensure it 
was up to date with their circumstances and ensure any arrangements to pay were 
affordable. It said it also offers details of third party agencies that may be able to assist, such 
as Citizens Advice and Stepchange. And it would send regular letters informing customers in 
arrears the level of their arrears and what the possible consequences may be if no 
arrangement to repay them is in place.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Mr and Mrs B asked us to consider their complaint. 
Halifax told us its mortgage interest rates are available on-line and can be accessed by 
anyone, so it didnt withhold that information. It says it was in regular contact with               
Mr and Mrs B and various repayment arrangements were put in place. Halifax says it would 
always encourage customers in arrears to pay them off as quickly as possible and the 
arrangements agreed were based on what was affordable for Mr and Mrs B while reducing 
the arrears quickly.
Our investigator asked Halifax about the possibility of capitalisation while Mr and Mrs B were 
in arrears. Halifax relied on its contact notes to tell us capitalisation was first mentioned on 
15 October 2013, but Mr and Mrs B did not consider that at the time. In April 2015 there 
were discussions regarding the sale of the property and an arrangement made for              
Mr and Mrs B to make their contractual monthly payments plus an amount to reduce the 
arrears. In June 2018, Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account met Halifaxs criteria for 
capitalisation consideration but Mr and Mrs B declined that as the property was being 
marketed for sale. Halifax says its notes dont suggest Mr and Mrs B requested a product 
transfer but, if they had it would have been declined while the mortgage was in arrears.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He saw from Halifaxs notes that 
capitalisation had been mentioned in 2013 and again in 2018. And he could see that          
Mr and Mrs B had declined the option in 2018 because they wanted to sell the property. He 
didnt see any reference in Halifaxs notes to show that Mr and Mrs B requested a product 
transfer. And he said that it may not have been appropriate for Halifax to have offered a new 
product with an early redemption charge period as it may have needed to take action to 
recover the mortgage debt during that period. That would have meant increasing                
Mr and Mrs Bs debt further.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They said every time they raised the subject of a new interest rate 
they were told to contact a finance charity and that if they paid the arrears Halifax could 
transfer them to a new interest rate.  They even had an appointment in a branch, but the 
manager wouldnt entertain the idea of a product transfer.
Mr and Mrs B asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman so its been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr and Mrs Bs complaint Ive thought about whether Halifax unfairly prevented 
them from obtaining a more favourable mortgage interest rate product while their account 
was in arrears. And Ive considered whether, more generally, Halifaxs actions while           
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account was in arrears were fair and reasonable.
Both Halifax and our investigator observed that Halifaxs contact notes dont indicate that   
Mr and Mrs B discussed new rate products while their account was in arrears. Ive 
considered those notes. Ive seen from those notes that Halifax were in regular contact with 
Mr and Mrs B throughout that period; that they made arrangements to pay; and that they 
considered affordability  all in line with what I would expect to see in the circumstances.
However, the contact notes provided are from Halifaxs collection and recoveries team. And 
while a significant amount of Mr and Mrs Bs contact during the time their account was in 
arrears was likely to be with that team, they may have had contact with other areas of 
Halifaxs business. For example, Mr and Mrs B say they spoke with a branch manager, but 
he wouldnt entertain a conversation about a new interest rate. So, I dont think the absence 
of notes about new rates in the evidence Halifax has sent necessarily indicates that the 
subject was never mentioned. Mr and Mrs B have said that they did want to discuss new 
rates and Im not persuaded by what Ive seen that they didnt try to. So, I understand that 
may have been a source of frustration for them over the years.
Halifax has said that Mr and Mrs B didnt qualify for new rates because their mortgage was 
in arrears. So, Ive considered Halifaxs policy on product transfers. That confirms that customers who are in arrears of one or more months payments cannot proceed with a 
product transfer application. Halifax has said one of the reasons for that policy is that 
customers in arrears may have their circumstances worsened if recovery action is taken and 
an early redemption charge applies.  Its our role to consider whether we think Halifax were 
acting fairly when applying their policy in Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances. I think the policy 
was applied fairly in this case, given that Mr and Mrs Bs account was more than one month 
in arrears for most of the time in question.
Ive seen from arrears statements provided by Halifax that, between 2012 and 2020, the 
arrears balance on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account increased  peaking at over £10,000 
in 2017 and 2018  and decreased. And in October 2020, they made a payment of 
approximately £6,000 to repay the arrears. So, Ive thought about whether Halifax could 
have done more to help Mr and Mrs B clear the arrears sooner, and therefore gain access to 
interest rate products before they did in 2020.
Mr and Mrs B say they were constantly told they should pay off their arrears and then they 
could be transferred to a new product. I understand that must have been frustrating for them, 
but it appears that the responses they received were in line with Halifaxs policy on the 
matter. And when they did pay off arrears on the account, they were allowed to transfer to a 
new interest rate product. So, based on their own recollections, I think they were advised 
correctly about what they needed to do to apply for a new interest rate product.
Mr and Mrs B also say they were prevented from obtaining information about new rates. But 
I think its reasonable that conversations about transferring to a new interest rate didnt 
progress to discussion about detail, given that they didnt qualify under Halifaxs policy. And, 
in any event, as Halifax has said, its rates were available on its website. So, I dont think 
Halifax withheld information about its mortgage interest rates.
Mr and Mrs B have also said they contacted Halifax to see if the arrears could be 
consolidated. A collections note of 15 September 2013 says Mr B was aware of the possible 
capitalisation option in the next month. Ive looked at the arrears statement for that time 
which shows that Mr and Mrs B made four payments in September to reduce the arrears 
balance to £3,367.44, but the collections notes dont refer to any further discussion about 
capitalisation after that until 2018. I cant conclude from the collections notes and the arrears 
statements why that may have been. But the collections notes do indicate that Mr B was 
aware of the potential option.
The collections notes show that the subject of capitalisation was discussed again in early 
2018. Specifically, that Mrs B was told that could be considered after they make six 
consecutive payments  Ive taken that to mean full monthly payments. Capitalisation was 
referred to next in a call with Mrs B on 8 June 2018. That note clearly states that                 
Mr and Mrs B had received an offer on their property and that theyd stick to the current plan 
and keep Halifax updated with how the sale progressed.
I think its worth me explaining here that the capitalisation of arrears  meaning adding the 
arears balance to the balance of the mortgage  is only appropriate in certain situations. If 
the borrower is not able to consistently make the contractual monthly payment, its unlikely 
that theyd be able to make the new contractual monthly payment once the arrears had been 
added to the mortgage balance. That would mean the account would be likely to fall into 
arrears again. So, I think Halifax requiring Mr and Mrs B to make six months full payments 
before it would consider capitalisation, was reasonable. 
As Mr and Mrs Bs income  according to the collections notes  was irregular at that time, 
there werent many times when they did make six months full payments on time. So, they didnt have many opportunities to capitalise the arrears on their mortgage account. When in 
2018, they did get that opportunity, the collections notes indicate that they declined to take it. 
Having considered the evidence available in relation to the capitalisation of the arrears on  
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account, I think Halifaxs requirement for them to show six months 
full payment was reasonable. While Ive only seen that Halifax discussed capitalisation in 
2013 and 2018, I havent seen that it was appropriate  due to Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances  to have mentioned it at any other time. And Ive seen that Halifax was 
willing to consider the matter when appropriate to do so. That means I dont think it acted 
unfairly in that regard.
Summary
  
Its clear from what theyve said and the documented evidence available that Mr and Mrs B 
have gone through a sustained difficult period  financially. But that evidence indicates that 
Halifax has generally acted as I would expect. And, with regard to the specific points 
mentioned by Mr and Mrs B  new interest rates and the capitalisation of arrears  I havent 
seen that Halifax has treated them unfairly or acted unreasonably. So, I dont uphold          
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Bank of Scotland trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman