DRN-3167475
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited has rejected the claim they made 
under sections 75, 56 and 104A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs T are represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill call S.
Background
In or around October 2015, Mr and Mrs T were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system to be installed at their home. 
Following a visit from a representative of P, Mr and Mrs T decided to purchase the system 
and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In April 2020 S made a claim against Shawbrook. S said that, following a cold call, P had 
made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and 
these misrepresentations had induced Mr and Mrs T to enter into the contract with P. S said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would pay for itself and the finance would be paid off within a few years.
The finance repayments could be deferred for three months. 
The solar panels were part of a Government backed scheme. 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs T or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs T and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
S didnt agree with the investigators view and said: 
No consideration has been given to the verbal representations made by P at the 
point of sale. 
Mr and Mrs T said that P did not go through the quotation with them and they were 
only provided with a 3-page document. 
They did not receive a copy of the quotation. 
The quotation is a lengthy document and is not easily understandable. 
Greater weight was placed on evidence from external bodies such as Trading 
Standards and HIES than on Mr and Mrs Ts testimony.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement under arrangements it 
had with P, Shawbrook accepts that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that 
Mr and Mrs T could claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by P in the same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, 
Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this 
case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs T and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by Shawbrook. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Ts recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Self-funding
Mr and Mrs T say they were told their monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr and Mrs T have said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs T could 
expect by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that these tables, especially the first one, make clear that Mr and Mrs T could expect 
to receive a total FIT income in year one of £455.67.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs T could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings amount to £335.99 and, when taking into 
account the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs T, the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £908.33. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
There is a section headed Repayments with a series of tables. This has three tables set out 
according to the number of monthly payments. The table for 180 monthly payments, which 
Mr and Mrs T agreed to, sets out that there are 180 monthly payments of £96.75 due and 
compares the overall expected grand total from the system, averaged over a monthly basis, 
against the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly show that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not persuaded that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system against 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an accessible format which makes it 
easy to compare the two.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs T were told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over time. 
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 20 years. This shows that 
by year 14 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs T that the system would pay for 
itself by year 14, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and if I were satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs T. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 3,059.19 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ts FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 2,946.20 kWh. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale but 
within a reasonable margin, so Im satisfied that the system is performing largely as 
expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and. 
2020. The increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think this 
explains why Mr and Mrs Y havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been 
expecting from the solar panels.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs T 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs T entered into the 
contract.
Section 140A of the Act allows a court to make a finding that a credit agreement creates an 
unfair relationship, and section 140B gives the court power to make orders to rectify that. 
Given the findings I have made above, however, I do not believe it likely that a court would 
make such a finding in this case. 
Additional points raised by the CMC
In response to the assessment the CMC raised some additional points.
S has said that no consideration had been given to Mr and Mrs Ts evidence of what 
happened at the point of sale. I have carefully considered the testimony provided through S, 
but it has not changed my decision. Neither Mr and Mrs T nor S have provided any specific 
recollections in relation to how many years it would take for the panels to be self-funding or 
the yearly benefits they were told verbally to expect. I accept that they were told that, 
however, and that is supported by the quote. 
I also note that Mr and Mrs T took out a 15-year loan, so I think they would have known that 
theyd be expected to pay monthly loan repayments over this period. They have said they 
were told that payments would be deferred for three months and that they could repay the 
loan early. Both were true, and indeed they did repay the loan when they found themselves 
in a position to do so. Because they repaid the loan early, Mr and Mrs Ts paid very much 
less overall than they would have done if the loan had run for the full 15 years and 3 months.
S said too that Mr and Mrs T were told the scheme was Government-backed. It hasnt 
suggested however that that was not the case or how it affected Mr and Mrs T.   
As explained above, I am satisfied that on balance the quotation was provided to Mr and Mrs 
T. They signed the document on page 23 and on page 26, and it was Ps normal practice to 
email this document to their consumers shortly after the initial meeting. The quotation was 
32-pages long. I think it unlikely that Mr and Mrs T signed it without having received any 
explanation of what it contained or ensuring they had a copy.  
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs T 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman