DRN-2860077
The complaint
Miss S complains Erudio Student Loans Limited havent administered her loans properly. 
She says as a result of this, theyve recorded arrears which shouldnt apply  and those 
arrears are preventing her from getting her loan written off.
What happened
In 1998 Miss S took out two loans which are now administered by Erudio. The terms of these 
loans allow Miss S to ask for a deferment if she meets certain criteria  one of which is 
income. Miss S says shes met that criteria each year, so has always applied for deferments 
and theyve always been accepted. Shes been doing this since 2001 and says shes very 
meticulous in making these applications each time.
In March 2020 Erudio told Miss S theyd not received her deferment paperwork. She said 
this happens regularly, but she had returned it. She said it was difficult at the time because 
her partner is extremely vulnerable and was shielding due to the Covid-19 pandemic  so 
she couldnt reprint her documents as she didnt have access to a printer. She also became 
aware there were gaps in her deferment history from 2016-2017.
When a deferment isnt made, arrears accumulate on the account. Miss Ss arrears were 
around £400, but she said she couldnt afford this. She was also concerned about the 
arrears because shed now reached an age where the terms and conditions of the loans 
meant theyd be written off if she met all the relevant criteria. But, one of those criteria was to 
have no arrears, so she complained to Erudio in June 2020, saying she wanted her loan 
paid off.
In August 2020 Erudio replied to Miss Ss complaint. They explained theyd taken over the 
administration of the two loans from a company Ill call SLC in March 2014. Erudio said up to 
this point SLC were responsible for deferments and had told them there were gaps in 
Miss Ss deferment between April 2005-June 2005, and between June 2012-October 2012. 
Erudio said a complaint was raised to us about these gaps, and they were removed, so they 
wont comment on this further. But there were gaps between October 2016-February 2017, 
and currently as no deferment had been in place since February 2020.
Erudio said for the October 2016-February 2017 gap a form was issued to Miss S on 
29 April 2016, with further forms sent 29 August 2016 and 12 April 2017. No form was 
received until 27 April 2017. And, as deferments can only go back three months, that meant 
theyd go back to the end of the previous gap  February 2017.
The net result of this, was that Miss S had a period of 25 October 2016 to 24 February 2017 
where she wasnt in deferment of her loan. That meant she needed to make payments, and 
because she hadnt, arrears had built up during this time. At the time of Erudios reply, 
further arrears were also building up.
Overall, Erudio didnt think theyd done anything wrong, so wouldnt be upholding Miss Ss 
complaint.
Unhappy with this Miss S asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and 
she felt the complaint should be upheld with these two loans being written off.
Miss S accepted this, but Erudio didnt. They said they couldnt see theyd acted unfairly or 
outside of the terms of the agreement they had with Miss S. They felt the outcome was being 
made on Miss Ss word, rather than the facts and evidence showing she didnt contact 
Erudio to defer or discuss her account. 
Because of that, the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Erudio have referenced arrears that were cleared in 2013 following Miss S contacting our 
service. From evidence Ive seen thats a choice Erudio made, rather than our service. 
Regardless of the reason though, as theyve been cleared, I dont need to consider them 
further.
So, the key issue in this complaint is whether Miss S did return her deferment forms before 
October 2016 as she said she did  and what that means for her situation from 
February 2020 onwards.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as it is in this case, I need to decide what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened  taking into account all the evidence I do 
have.
Miss S says shes always returned her deferment forms. She says her financial situation 
means she always pays particular attention to when these forms are required by Erudio  
and since 2001 has never missed one.
Erudio say they sent out the forms but never received her deferment forms until 
27 April 2017.
Looking at the evidence Ive got, Erudios systems do show that the deferment forms were 
sent to Miss S, for the October 2016 deferment, in August 2016. This appears consistent 
with previous years when the forms were sent as well.
Miss S has said she did receive them and returned them. Looking at Erudios records, I can 
see that every year its clear they did receive the deferment forms from Miss S in time for it 
to be applied. Ive not seen anything to suggest there would have been a reason for her not 
to return the forms  like shed been doing for 15 years at that time. 
Miss S has talked in detail about the impact having to make repayments to this debt would 
have on her. Her personal circumstances mean her income is extremely tight. Given all of 
the history of Miss Ss contact with Erudio about the deferment, I think its more likely than 
not she did return the forms in 2016. That, effectively, was all she was required to do.
I cant know if those forms reached Erudio  they could have been lost in the post. But, they 
could also have been lost by Erudio (or SLC who were processing this on their behalf). 
Generally, we accept that if something has been sent, itll usually be received. 
With that in mind, I think its reasonable for me to conclude Miss S more likely than not did 
send these forms, and as a result of that its more likely than not the forms werent processed correctly / were lost. So, that means I dont think its fair for Erudio to say there 
are outstanding arrears, and Ill require them to be removed.
The effect of removing those arrears means Miss S is entitled to ask for her debt to be 
written off  which is what our Investigator concluded was a fair outcome.
Ive also come to the same conclusion. By removing the arrears shes now eligible for the 
debt to be written off. So, Ill require Erudio to do this.
I have noted Erudios comments that in reaching the same outcome our Investigator was 
ignoring evidence and facts theyd provided. I understand why theyd say that  but Miss Ss 
testimony is still evidence, and also isnt something I can ignore. Ive looked carefully at the 
record of contacts Erudio have provided along with their reasons for saying Miss S probably 
didnt send the documents. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im more persuaded by 
her testimony that she did. 
Finally, Ive noted Erudios comments about Miss S being in arrears since February 2020  
but by removing the arrears she would have been eligible for her loan to have been written 
off prior to this date  so I dont need to comment on this further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Erudio Student Loans Limited to write off the two loans 
that are the subject of this complaint. Once thats done, theyll need to write to Miss S to 
confirm both of these accounts are closed.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman