DRN-3420948
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about AXA Insurance UK PLCs decision to reject a claim she made 
under her home and buildings insurance policy for storm damage. 
All reference to the insurer AXA in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs W reported damage to the roof of her home to her insurer, AXA following a 
storm. Mrs W said interim emergency repairs were necessary and AXA said these could go 
ahead  but it couldnt guarantee it would cover the costs. 
AXA asked Mrs W to obtain two estimates for the repairs showing the cause of damage with 
photos of the damage for it to consider her claim. On receipt of both estimates, AXA declined 
Mrs Ws claim as it said one of the estimates said the cause of damage was due to a rotten 
wooden bargeboard and old soffit board. AXA said the policy excluded cover for pre-existing 
issues and wear and tear. AXA concluded that storm conditions highlighted a pre -existing 
condition of the roof.
Mrs W asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought AXAs decision to reject 
the claim was reasonable based on the information provided in the reports. 
Mrs W didnt agree and provided further comments from the authors of the reports. Mrs W 
says she wants AXA to at least meet part of the costs of her claim for the scaffolding and the 
replacement of UPVC soffits. 
As Mrs W doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws policy with AXA says it will cover insured perils such as storm. It isnt enough to say 
that because storm conditions occurred around the time of the damage, a claim is valid. 
Sometimes a storm can highlight a pre-existing issue. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality. So its not unusual for insurers 
to have limitations and exclusions to the cover they provide. AXA has applied the following 
general exclusion when it rejected Mrs Ws claim.
What is not covered
Damage caused by gradual wear and tear; or a failure to fix a known issue (e.g. a 
visible leak isnt fixed which causes further damage.)
AXA concluded that while storm conditions occurred, it wasnt the main cause of the damage 
and highlighted an existing issue. So it declined Mrs Ws claim by applying its wear and tear 
exclusion. 
We have a long standing approach to storm damage claims. As the Investigator explained, 
applying our approach, we ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to 
help decide whether an insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
I think the answer to the first two questions is yes. But from the information provided by the 
reports Mrs W obtained from both contractors  and the information she has provided  I 
think the answer to the final question is no. Ill explain why.
Mrs W provided information from two contractors, which Ill refer to as contractor A and B.
A didnt say what the cause of damage was  but the quote it provided listed repairs to; 
remove old UPVC fascia and soffit, replace any rotten wood and supply and fit new UPVC 
fascia and soffit
B visited the property and reported the following:
I have attended the above property to provide the following quotation to amend the issue 
with gable end due to the soffit and fascia shedding from the roofline as the old soffit board 
and wooden bargeboard is rotten I expect the complete gable is in similar condition as its 
been over cladded and just exacerbated the issue.
Contractor B provided the following further comments:
the fascia and the soffit was shed from the roofline due to storm damage but 
obviously knowing the construction of other properties in the road and the age that 
most of the timber behind is soft.
This report was written with that prior knowledge and experience due to working on 
other properties within the same road.
However if I had not worked within that road I would have given you the lower cost
quotation or just a replacement of the upvc (repair) but then of course when the work
commenced and uncovering the timber the cost would have jumped up 
considerably.
Mrs W said contractor A carried out the repair works and discovered some wood that had 
softened and required replacement. But Mrs W says this was proportionately very little and 
not near the area where the storm damage occurred.
Mrs W provided further comments from contractor B: 
(B) did not inspect the boards however from our experience of the properties within 
your road there, due to the over cladding it is extremely likely that some or all of the 
barge boards will have some issue and this needs to be included in to the quotation 
as this is a factor that also needs to be considered.
Mrs W wasnt able to show that any maintenance works to the roof had been carried out 
since 1992. Mrs W says contractor B didnt carry out works to discover pre-existing damage. 
She says that her property was damaged when there was a known storm, irrespective of 
what the builders say. In order to consider Mrs Ws claim further, AXA offered to arrange for one of its appointed 
contractors to inspect Mrs Ws roof, but Mrs W declined the offer. And so  based on all of 
the information AXA received  I dont think it unfairly declined the claim due to wear and 
tear. I dont think there was sufficient information to show that Mrs Ws claim met the 
requirements for storm damage. And so I cant say that AXA has been unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman