DRN-3690067
The complaint
Mr A complains about Octopus Investments Limiteds (Octopus) reporting and information 
provision.
What happened
Mr A holds a Eureka EIS with Octopus. Mr A complains that Octopus reporting is unclear, 
making it extremely difficult to identify particular transactions for tax calculations as Octopus 
lump sales together and pay proceeds quarterly. Mr A maintains that it takes hours to 
extract the information needed from the transaction information provided by Octopus. 
Further, Octopus were unclear about the tax position on offsetting the success fee on exit 
from the EIS, which was required to calculate CGT liability. Further, Mr A complains that 
Octopus had not explained that commission was being paid to his current adviser. Mr A 
believes Octopus should change their method of reporting, refund his excess tax and refund 
some management charges. Mr A also says that Octopus had reneged on promises to make 
improvements to their reporting.
Octopus say they presented necessarily detailed information about the transactions 
undertaken on the investee companies within the EIS. Transactions were listed on the portal 
under relevant sections. Octopus acknowledged Mr A was unhappy with the way information 
was presented but maintained that information was presented in a way that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. They pointed to the fact that thousands of customers used the system, 
in which information was presented in the same way, without a systemic problem being 
raised. Further, they had on multiple occasions taken time with Mr A to provide assistance, 
for example explaining that the full list of acquisitions and sales was shown in the trading 
statement in your valuations, offering to facilitate video calls on the use of the platform and 
responding to information requests. Whilst all feedback was welcomed, no assurances had 
been given that changes would be made. Octopus provided their understanding of the tax 
position but suggested Mr A seeks tax advice. Octopus also provided a trail to showing 
commission paid to the adviser.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He acknowledged 
that Mr A was unhappy with Octopus portal, reporting process and presentation of 
information. But overall considered that information had been represented in a clear, fair and 
not misleading way. Further, it was for Octopus to decide how to operate their processes. As 
to the success fee issue, our investigator noted that this was applied against the portfolio 
rather than individual investees companies. Whilst Octopus had provided its understanding, 
it was for Mr A to seek tax advice. Given the information provided by Octopus as to when 
different advisers received trail commission, our investigator wasnt persuaded that anything 
had gone wrong. 
Mr A didnt agree with the outcome. He felt it was unreasonable for Octopus to send generic 
letters when a company within the EIS was sold, leaving him to search for the financial 
details on the portal. Mr A gave an example of spending 80 minutes on a query. He re-
iterated that he had contacted HMRC and encouraged reading of poor reviews about 
Octopus online.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is helpful to be clear at the outset as to the role of our service. We provide an independent, 
informal dispute resolution service. We have no regulatory or disciplinary powers, which 
means we cannot tell a business how to operate or impose any penalty. Each case is 
considered on its own facts and decisions are made upon the balance of probabilities, in 
other words, what is more likely than not to have happened. If things have gone wrong, we 
look to award compensation on a fair and reasonable basis.
Mr A initially raised wide ranging concerns about his frustrations around Octopus reporting 
and the impact this had on his practice as an adviser. As Mr A is aware, our service can only 
consider a complaint brought by Mr A in his capacity as a consumer. I have therefore only 
considered the points raised by Mr A as his capacity as an investor in the Eureka EIS. Also, 
during the course of bringing his complaint, Mr A raised a series of other concerns. Those 
matters are not addressed within this decision and I understand that Mr A has directed them 
to Octopus.
I appreciate Mr A says he has struggled to interpret information on the portal and is 
frustrated that Octopus send a notification by letter when a sale takes place, requiring him to 
then access the portal for details of the transaction. Mr A points to other EIS providers who 
provide information in a different format. But as our investigator has explained, it is for 
Octopus to decide how to operate its reporting systems. Ive balanced Mr As wider 
assertions of overly complex information provision and user problems against Octopus 
explanation that thousands of customers and their representatives use the portal and there 
is no reporting of systemic discontent. 
Octopus have explained that information about each acquisition and disposal is provided on 
the portal under the trading statement section, each being listed in date order. Theyve 
shown screenshots and evidenced, for example, how additional information was provided 
about the CGT position on the sale of some particular shares. Octopus have explained 
where information is to be found on the portal, for example, dealing fees in disposal fall 
under charges and performance fees calculated on a portfolio basis fall under cash 
statement. Having reviewed the correspondence as a whole, I consider that it is more likely 
than not that clear transactional information was provided on the portal. On balance, on the 
basis of the information provided, I am not persuaded that Octopus failed to comply with its 
reporting obligations. 
Whilst I empathise with Mr As feelings of frustration and acknowledge his firm preference for 
the method of reporting used by different providers, it doesnt follow that Octopus have done 
anything wrong. Mr A believes Octopus should change the way it reports information but 
even if arguably things could be improved, as I explained at the outset, this service cannot 
direct Octopus to change the way it operates. I cannot see that Octopus made any 
assurances that changes would be made. Its also apparent that Octopus have endeavoured 
to spend time with Mr A addressing his specific queries and going through the portal with 
him on a one-to-one basis, so they have taken steps to provide assistance, as I would 
expect them to do.
There appears to have been some confusion over the position of the success fee. Mr A 
mistakenly thought there had been a delay in figures being sent from Octopus, when in fact 
an email was sent in reasonable time. Octopus have provided Mr A with their understanding of the tax position and have given reasons; they say the success fee is deducted against the 
overall portfolio not against the individual investee companies when sold. But theyve been 
clear from the outset that they do not provide tax advice. Mr A says he sought clarification 
from HMRC. If Mr A still has concerns about his personal capital gains tax liability it is for him 
to seek tax advice.
As to the issue of payment of commission, Octopus have provided details to Mr A with a list 
of payees and dates. Theyve also confirmed that payment was made to the current adviser 
following instructions on behalf of a third party. I note that the adviser now receiving the 
commission appears to work for Mr A.
Taking everything into account, I am not persuaded that Octopus have done anything wrong, 
so I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but I am not upholding his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman