DRN-3442385
The complaint
Mrs W complains QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined her claim on her home insurance 
policy.
There are several parties and representatives of QIC involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to QIC.
What happened
Mrs Ws garage was subject to arson. This was reported to the police. The garage structure 
and its contents were damaged. The garage was deemed to be unsafe and Mrs W had to 
have the remaining garage building demolished.
A number of items of furniture that were being stored in the garage were completely 
destroyed and others damaged. Some of these items belonged to Mrs Ws daughter. 
Mrs W bought the property more than 30 years ago and the garage was part of the 
purchase. The garage is situated around the corner from Mrs Ws house and she leases the 
land that it is on from the council, as the council own the land.
QIC declined to settle Mrs Ws claim on her home insurance policy as it said the garage was 
not covered as it was not within the boundaries of her property.
Mrs W wants QICs decision overturned and for it to settle the cost of the garage to be rebuilt 
and to settle for the damaged contents. Plus reimbursement for removal of the damaged 
garage and cost of temporary storage.
As Mrs W was not happy with QIC, she brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and felt as the garage 
was not in the boundaries of her property it was not covered and QIC had acted within the 
terms of the policy when it declined her claim.  
As Mrs W is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
In my provisional  decision I said 
When Mrs W bought the house in 1988 she also bought the garage. The lease for the land 
that the garage sits on was taken over by her at the same time.  However the house that Mrs 
W owns and the garage that she owns on rented land from the council are two separate 
entities. 
I have seen the evidence that makes it clear that Mrs W owned a garage that was built on 
council owned land and she leased the land from the council. And has done so since buying 
the house in 1988. 
The issue in this case is if the garage and the contents are covered by Mrs Ws home 
insurance policy.
I have looked at the insurance policy schedule and terms and conditions detailed in Mrs Ws 
home insurance policy with QIC and note the following sentences found within the 
Definitions section
Buildings - Any permanent structure within the boundaries of your property.
Home  The main building which you live in, garages which are part of or attached to 
the main building, and outbuildings all within the boundaries of the address shown on 
your schedule.
QIC said the cover given by it, is not unusual. And that covering only buildings and 
outbuildings within the boundary of a property is standard practice within the home insurance 
market. It said had Mrs W purchased her policy from any number of leading home insurers, 
she would have been provided cover for only outbuildings within the boundary of the 
address.
QIC added, had Mrs W advised it that there were additional buildings away from the 
address, it  would have confirmed that these were not insured and provided contact details 
for the British Insurance Brokers Association who would have been able to source 
appropriate cover for her.
Its understandable that Mrs W thought her garage and her property left in it was covered by 
her home and contents insurance. But its also understandable for QIC to only cover the 
buildings and contents within the boundaries of the property unless it was made aware of the 
specific circumstances of the garage in this case. 
I looked at the information provided by Mrs W to QIC when she started her policy. It was 
bought online in 2019. There was no information requested specifically about garages. In 
2020 and 2021 the policy auto renewed.
Within the questions and answers documentation it is stated tell us immediately if any 
details are incorrect, incomplete or have been omitted. If your information is not correct, we 
may reject your claim or only pay part of it.
During the initial call Mrs W made to QIC her claim was declined. The reason given was as 
the garage was not within the boundaries of her property it was not covered. Mrs W asked 
for this to be looked into and QIC agreed to refer her claim to a specialist complex claims 
handler. 
QICs specialist asked for evidence that Mrs W owned the garage and that it was purchased 
with the property. Mrs W provided evidence of this by means of the lease agreement with the 
council and she expected her claim would then be settled. 
QIC then said if Mrs W was able to provide evidence to demonstrate that the garage is 
shown on the deeds of the property they would re-review her claim. Mrs W confirmed that 
the garage was not on the deeds.
QIC confirmed that Mrs Ws claim was declined for the reason that that garage is not within 
the boundaries of her property.  I do not think QIC unfairly declined the claim for this reason.
I further looked to see if Mrs Ws claim was covered under personal possessions away from your property section of the optional cover for your contents section of her policy. 
Within Mrs Ws policy, in the contents section, there is a section for Total unspecified 
personal possessions away from the property. 
I looked at the details in the policy. It defines personal possessions as; Contents which you 
or your family take outside of your property and are mainly used for private purposes.
QIC said the damaged items that Mrs W claimed for are general furniture items and these 
dont meet the definition of a personal possession. It said furniture items are a contents 
possession and therefore couldnt be considered under this section of her policy.
Ive thought about whether QIC has applied the policy conditions fairly here. Im persuaded 
that it has because the items claimed for do not meet the definition of a personal possession 
as defined within the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws policy.
I am truly sorry that Mrs W was a victim of this crime that resulted in the loss of her garage 
and much of its contents. I can assure her I have taken her complaint very seriously. Having 
then to deal with the fire at her garage and then the claim with QIC will indeed have been a 
very stressful time for her, in addition to the financial loss.
However, I am satisfied the damaged garage and its contents are not covered by the policy 
in this case as it is not within the boundaries of her property and the contents were also not 
covered by the additional cover for personal possessions away from the property. Therefore 
I am persuaded QIC fairly declined her claim. 
Although I know it will be disappointing to Mrs W, I  intend not to uphold her complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W did not respond.
QIC did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there has been no new evidence or comments submitted by either Mrs W or QIC, I 
maintain my provisional decision and I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman