DRN-3554096
The complaint
Mr S complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited didnt make reasonable adjustments 
for him, didnt close his account in the manner he requested and gave poor service too.
What happened
Mr S had an account with Shop Direct (trading as Very) which was closed in May 2021.
In October 2021 Mr S complained to Very that it had written to him about an unaffordable 
lending claim when it should have written to his lawyers. He subsequently complained that 
his account hadnt been closed in the way it should have been.
Very investigated Mr Ss complaints and said that it had written to his lawyers because it 
hadnt received a response to a text message it sent Mr S checking whether or not they were 
authorised to bring a claim on his behalf. So it didnt think it had done anything wrong there. 
Very accepted that it could have handled a call from Mr S about his account better, and so 
offered to send him a compensation cheque as a goodwill gesture. Mr S was unhappy with 
Verys response, not least because hed already made it clear that Very shouldnt be sending 
him any letters in the post which a cheque would also involve. So, he complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaints and said that the only issue they 
needed to decide was how much compensation Very ought to pay Mr S given that both 
parties agreed Very could have done better. Having taken everything into account, our 
investigator said that they thought £75 was fair and reasonable and recommended that 
amount be paid by BACs. Mr S didnt agree  he said that Very had sent him several other 
letters in breach of its duty to make reasonable adjustments. He asked for an ombudsman to 
look into his complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
Last month I issued a provisional decision saying that I didnt agree Very had done anything 
wrong as far as closing Mr Ss account was concerned. I didnt, however, think that Very 
should have sent the letter it did to Mr S on 24 September 2021 as I was satisfied that Mr S 
had told Very hed authorised the law firm in question to bring a claim on his behalf. I also 
said I was satisfied that Very has sent Mr S several letters despite him asking it not to do so. 
I said I thought Very should pay Mr S £200 in compensation in full and final settlement and 
invited both parties to comment. Very said it had nothing to add and Mr S said compensation 
of £200 was too low, and that I should be awarding a minimum of £900.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has told us that hes unable to touch, pick up, look at, read or open letters sent to his 
home address because of a physical disability. Hes also told us that he needs businesses to 
make reasonable adjustments for him in accordance with the Equality Act 2010.
Mr S has told Very that hell take them to Court unless he receives a significant amount of 
compensation  by which I mean over £5,000  given that he believes it has breached its 
duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. Hes also told me that 
£200 compensation is too low, and that my award should exceed the minimum of £900.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I have to take the Equality Act 2010 into account 
when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law. Ultimately, however, I have to 
decide this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. So, if Mr S wants a decision that 
Very has breached the Equality Act 2010, then hell need to go Court. On a related point, 
and even though Mr S hasnt said so explicitly, it looks like Mr S is expecting me to award 
compensation in line with what are known as the Vento guidelines. Those are guidelines 
that the Courts use when making awards in discrimination cases. I say this because the 
Vento guidelines set out a series of bands of awards, and the minimum band starts at 
£900. So, Ive taken Mr Ss comments to be a reference to those guidelines. Im aware of 
those guidelines, and of our approach to awards too.
As I said in my provisional decision, I agree with Mr S that the £75 Very offered wasnt 
sufficient compensation. Having considered the impact that Verys actions had on Mr S, 
however, I was satisfied that £200 would be a fair outcome. I appreciate that Mr S would like 
me to award more, and to make an award of at least £900. But having taken everything into 
account, I remain of the view that the impact in this case on Mr S means an award of £200 is 
fair and reasonable. So thats the amount Im going to require Very to pay Mr S.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive just given, Im going to require Very to pay Mr S £200  using BACS  
in full and final settlement of this complaint. If Mr S wants to take Very to Court and show its 
breached the Equality Act 2010, in the hope that hell receive a greater amount of 
compensation, he can do so. He wont be able to do that, however, and accept my decision. 
In short, hell have to decide whether to take Very to Court or accept my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to pay Mr S £200 in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman