DRN-3920689
The complaint
 Z complains ClearBank Limited (trading as Tide) failed to detail the charges Z would incur 
when an international transfer was made to its account. 
What happened
On 28 April 2022 Z received a payment of £13,866.14. Miss M, a director of Z queried this 
payment with Tide, who was the receiving bank. Miss M explained the amount received was 
£2 less than anticipated and she hadnt been informed of any charges levied by Tide. 
Tide reviewed Miss Ms query and it was established that this payment into Zs account was 
an international transfer. The MT103 - which is an international standard document produced 
when the SWIFT payment network is used to make a transfer - was also reviewed as part of 
this process. The MT103 was completed by the sender and detailed instructions for the 
payment to Z. The details confirmed the sender had chosen to share the fee which explains 
why Z received £2 less than anticipated.
Miss M was not satisfied with Tides response, and she explained that the charges were not 
made clear or applied correctly. Miss M raised a formal complaint on behalf of Z and Tide 
issued a final response letter on 16 May 2022 reiterating its stance that it had acted fairly. 
Tide explained the charging options available  and that in this instance the sender selected 
the shared option which meant the fee was deducted from the amount Z was due to receive. 
Dissatisfied with the response Miss M referred the complaint to our service. An Investigator 
considered Zs complaint and found that Tide had provided a clear explanation of why the £2 
had been deducted from the payment received by Z. The Investigator found that Tide had 
acted reasonably in the circumstances. 
Z remained unhappy with the review and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has made several detailed points about Zs complaint which I have only summarised 
above. Id like to reassure Miss M that I have read and considered all the submissions made. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made, but to consider the circumstances as a whole.
Having done so, while I appreciate Miss Ms strength of feeling about the charge applied, Im 
satisfied Tide has acted reasonably. Ill explain why. 
Miss M says Tide failed to properly explain what charges Z may incur when receiving 
international payments. I havent seen any specific correspondence between Z and Tide 
about international transfers and charges prior to this particular transfer. In any event, in this 
particular instance the sender wouldve completed the necessary details about how fees 
were to be covered. The sender selected shared fees, which meant Z would incur some 
charges as part of the transfer. Tide has confirmed that the intermediary bank applied the £2 
fee. Tide would not have been in a position to inform Z of the charges that may be applied 
because in most cases it would not know this in advance. I would only expect Tide to inform 
Z of charges it was applying and was responsible for. 
Miss M says Tide provided her with the MT103 form which showed zero fees to the receiver 
which means the £2 has been unfairly applied. Miss M says Tide is unfairly withholding this 
information now as it supports her position. Ive looked at the form and I am satisfied in this 
instance, although Tide was not applying a fee, the intermediary bank was. I understand 
Miss Ms strength of feeling about this matter but based on the evidence I have seen I cant 
agree that Tide has tried to mis-lead Z or conceal information. 
I think it is also important to note that the £2 fee was deducted before payment was received 
by Tide. This means it wouldnt have been aware of the fee or how much was taken by the 
intermediary bank until further enquiries were made. I fully appreciate that it wouldve been 
helpful for Z to be aware of the fee, but I cant hold Tide responsible for this. The sender and 
Z would be responsible for detailing the payment between themselves.
I understand that for Z clarity around international transfers may be important, especially if it 
receives them regularly. As the receiving bank Tide would not be in a position to provide 
instructions about the fees that could be levied. This would be the role of the sending bank. 
Going forward Z may need to consider its options regarding international transfers and the 
most effective way for receiving them, as fees are commonly applied by intermediary banks 
and they can be difficult to accurately ascertain. 
I know this will not be the outcome Z was hoping for and Miss M will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I dont find 
Tide to have acted unfairly in this case. This final decision ends what our service can do for 
Z. However, it can reject my decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if it wishes to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman