DRN-2850713
The complaint
Mr N complains that Nationwide Building Society treated him unfairly when it didnt allow him 
to take out a new mortgage product or give him full information about this. He asks for 
compensation.
 
What happened
Mr N had a mortgage with Nationwide. Part was on capital repayment and part on interest 
only payments basis. Mr Ns fixed interest rate products expired. Nationwide said it couldnt 
offer new products as there was less than two years before the mortgage term expired. It 
said Mr N would have to switch to full repayment terms to extend the term, or stay on its 
standard mortgage rate (SMR). By the time Nationwide offered a solution, Mr N had re-
mortgaged with another lender.
Nationwide paid £945 compensation for Mr Ns additional interest costs while on its SMR 
and £125 for the upset caused.
Mr N says this wasnt enough. He says if hed been given correct information when the first 
product expired, hed have re-mortgaged with another lender, instead of being on 
Nationwides standard mortgage rate. Mr N says his loss is about £3,000.
Our investigator said it would have been fair for Nationwide to extend the term for a short 
period on the same payment basis so that Mr N could take out a new product. While 
Nationwide offered to do this in response to Mr Ns complaint, hed already re-mortgaged 
with another lender. The investigator said as well as paying compensation for additional 
interest and delays, as it offered to do, Nationwide should compensate Mr N for the costs of 
re-mortgaging, pay £500 for the upset caused and back date its compensation. 
Nationwide agreed to pay the costs of Mr N re-mortgaging and £500 compensation. It didnt 
agree to pay compensation for Mr Ns additional interest costs from mid-2018. 
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out what I thought should happen. I said 
Nationwide should pay compensation for Mr Ns costs in re-mortgaging and £500 
compensation for the upset caused, as it had agreed to do. I didnt agree that it was fair and 
reasonable for Nationwide to back date compensation for additional interest to mid-2018 
(when the first interest rate product expired).
Mr N didnt agree. He said when his first product ended Nationwide didnt tell him how much 
his early repayment charge was as compared to rates available in the market. He says 
Nationwide should have told him hed be better off re-mortgaging with another lender.
Mr N said Nationwide didnt give him information about taking out a new product until he had 
less than two years of his term left, when it was too late. He says Nationwide made money 
out of him for many months and he should be compensated for this. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr N took out an interest only mortgage (the main mortgage) in 2005. This was later 
converted to part repayment and part interest only. Mr N took out additional borrowing on a 
repayment basis (the twin account) in 2008. He had separate fixed interest rate products for 
each account. One expired in mid-2018 and the other in early 2019.
What happened in mid-2018?
Mr N called Nationwide about taking out a new product shortly before the fixed interest rate 
product for the twin account expired at the end of July 2018. The shortest product 
Nationwide offered was for two years. The term remaining for both Mr Ns main mortgage 
and twin account was too short to take out a two-year product.
Nationwide said Mr N would need to extend the term of both mortgage accounts so that 
there was at least two years and one month left if he wanted to take out a new product. It 
said this would have to be on a repayment basis, which would mean switching the interest 
only part of the main account (about £30,000) to repayment.
Nationwide gave Mr N information to compare the monthly payments with the twin account 
on the SMR and with a new product. Mr N said he didnt think it was worth going through the 
process to take out a new product given the small difference in the payments (less than £10 
per month).
There was no discussion on this call about having to wait until early 2019 to extend the term 
of the mortgage or take out a new product for the twin account. Ive listened to a recording of 
the call and I dont think Nationwide gave Mr N any misleading or incorrect information on 
the call. It said clearly that it couldnt offer advice about the best thing for him to do.
At the end of the call, Mr N said he thought there might be a gap between the mortgage term 
expiring and his endowment policy maturing. He was transferred to another Nationwide team 
to check this. I think its unlikely this team gave him incorrect information about taking out a 
new product as that wasnt the purpose of him speaking to them. And it seems his 
endowment policy was due to mature at the same time as the interest only part of his 
mortgage expired, so it seems unlikely there was a discussion about changing the expiry 
date.
What happened in early 2019?
The product on the main account was due to expire at the end of February 2019. Mr N called 
Nationwide in late January 2019. At this point there was less than two years before the term 
of the main account expired. Nationwide said it didnt have products of less than two years: It 
said Mr N would need to extend the term if he wanted to take out a new product.
Nationwide said it didnt offer interest only mortgages. So any term extension would have to 
be on a repayment basis. Otherwise Mr N could stay on the SMR. Mr N said this would 
mean his payments would go up, and if interest rates went up the SMR could be 
unaffordable. He didnt want to switch to a repayment basis as he had an endowment policy 
in place. Nationwide said it would look into what it could do for him and call him back.In late April 2019 Nationwide said it would extend the term of Mr Ns mortgage on the same 
basis (part repayment and part interest only) to allow him to take out a new product. It said it 
would back date the product interest rate to March 2019. It pointed out extending the 
mortgage would mean it expiring about five months after Mr Ns endowment policy matured. 
It said while repaying the mortgage during the product term might incur an ERC, this could 
be waived. Nationwide suggested Mr N take financial advice about the best course of action.
Mr N had already decided to re-mortgage with another lender. Nationwide said it would 
refund the difference between the payments made by Mr N from March 2019 while on its 
SMR and the monthly payments to his new lender. It paid £125 for the time it had taken to 
write to him.
Did Nationwide make an error, and how did it affect Mr N?
I dont think Nationwide gave Mr N any misleading or incorrect information in mid-2018. Mr N 
didnt ask about the amount of any early repayment charge (ERC) or ask for more 
information about extending the term. 
I think Mr N decided not to take any action in mid-2018 because there was so little difference 
in the monthly payments between the twin account being on the SMR or on a product rate. 
And if hed looked into the matter further, I think its unlikely hed have re-mortgaged at that 
time, given the twin account had a smaller balance than the main account and an ERC 
would have been payable if he repaid the main account. 
Mr N disagrees with this. Perhaps, if hed asked a broker for mortgage advice at that time he 
might have decided to re-mortgage. But theres nothing to suggest he was thinking of doing 
this. He simply called Nationwide about taking out a new product. I dont think its reasonable 
to say that Nationwide should have told him about rates offered by competitors or advise him 
that hed be better off re-mortgaging with another lender. It told him on the call that it couldnt 
offer advice about the best thing for him to do. 
When Mr N contacted Nationwide again in early 2019 he was given the same information as 
he was given in mid-2018: there was less than two years left before his mortgage term was 
due to expire, and Nationwide didnt offer products with terms shorter than two years.
Mr N said Nationwide didnt give him information about taking out a new product until he had 
less than two years of his term left, when it was too late. I dont think this was intended to put 
Mr N into a difficult position. Most likely Nationwide wrote to Mr N when his previous 
products ended. It so happened that this was less than two years before the mortgage term 
was due to expire. However, this did mean Mr N couldnt easily access a new product for the 
remaining term, and Ive said below why I think Nationwide could have handled this better.
I should say here that while its usual for customers to take out a new interest rate product 
when their old one expires, there isnt  and never has been  a contractual or regulatory 
requirement for lenders to offer new products to customers when their old ones expire. Here, 
Nationwide didnt have a product with a term shorter than two years. And if Mr N had taken 
out a product with a term that exceeded the remaining mortgage term this would mean hed 
have to pay an ERC when he repaid the mortgage at maturity.
However, while Nationwide didnt offer new interest only mortgages, it has to treat customers 
with an existing interest only mortgage fairly, and consider whats in their best interests. Mr N 
didnt want to extend the term if this meant converting the interest only part of his mortgage 
to repayment. He didnt need to change to a repayment basis as he had an endowment 
policy in place to fund repayment of the interest only part of the mortgage.Nationwide offered a solution that allowed Mr N to extend his mortgage on the same basis, 
and take out an interest rate product so that he didnt have to stay on the SMR for the 
remaining term. However, by the time Nationwide offered this solution (in late April 2019) 
Mr N had decided to re-mortgage with another lender. Mr Ns re-mortgage completed on 
1 May 2019.
Nationwide paid compensation of about £950 to Mr N, which it calculated to be the 
difference between the payments he made to Nationwide and his monthly payment to his 
new lender for March and April 2019.
After the complaint came to us, Nationwide agreed to compensate Mr N for any brokers fee, 
application fee and legal fees (with proof of payment) and increase the amount of 
compensation for the upset caused to £500. Mr N provided his mortgage offer which shows 
an arrangement fee of £225.
Nationwide didnt agree to pay compensation for additional interest from mid-2018 (as 
compared to the interest Mr N would have paid if hed re-mortgaged at that time at his new 
lenders interest rate). I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to do so. I dont think 
Nationwide made an error in mid-2018. 
Following our investigators view, Nationwide offered to refund the difference in interest as 
compared to the amount Mr N would have paid if hed taken out a new product for the twin 
account in mid-2018. It says this totals about £64. I think this is fair. While I dont think Mr N 
would have re-mortgaged in mid-2018, he might have taken out a new product if hed been 
able to do so without needing to switch to repayment terms in order to extend the term.
Putting things right
Mr N will have the benefit of the lower interest rate offered by his new lender. Nonetheless, it 
would have been inconvenient to re-mortgage, especially as he was near to the end of his 
mortgage term, and there were some costs involved. In total, Nationwide has paid, or agreed 
to pay:
£945 for additional interest (as compared to moving to a new lender three months earlier);
£500 for Mr Ns upset;
£225 for Mr Ns costs of re-mortgaging; and 
£64 for additional interest (as compared to taking out a new product in mid-2018).
I think, in the circumstances, this is fair and reasonable compensation. 
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already paid £1,070 to Mr N. My decision is that it should 
pay another £664 to Mr N.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman