DRN-3895349
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the standard of the repairs carried out to his car following an 
accident and the poor service provided following a claim under his motor insurance policy 
with Haven Insurance Company Limited. 
I appreciate Mr W dealt with Havens claim handling agent, but for the sake of ease Ive 
referred to Haven throughout this decision, as theyre responsible for the actions of their 
agent. 
What happened
Mr Ws car was damaged in an accident and he made a claim under his policy for the repairs 
to it. Haven arranged for it to be repaired by one of their approved repairers. Mr W wasnt 
happy with the standard of the repairs and complained about them. He also complained that 
the repairer had damaged the roof on his car. Haven arranged for an engineer to inspect the 
repairs. However, he didnt complete his inspection and another engineer was appointed. He 
did complete his inspection and agreed the repairs had been carried out to a poor standard 
and rectification work was required. He estimated this would cost £1,000. He said he thought 
the dent to the roof was unlikely to have happened during the repair process. 
Haven offered Mr W the option to get an estimate for the rectification work to be carried out 
at another repairer. He did this, but Haven thought the estimate was too high. Mr W provided 
a second estimate from another repairer for a lower amount. Haven also thought this was 
too high. Mr W has said that the engineer who inspected his car then spoke to this repairer 
and agreed the work could be completed using fewer hours of labour at a lower rate. 
However, Haven issued a final response letter to Mr W offering £1,000 for the repairs.
 
Mr W wasnt happy with this and complained to us. After doing so he explained that hed 
paid around £2,400 to get the rectification work done on his car. And he provided an invoice 
for the work. He also mentioned that hed agreed to sell his car whilst it was being repaired 
originally and had taken a deposit for it, but he lost the sale when he discovered the repairs 
hadnt been done properly. He was clearly very frustrated about this.  
Two different investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. Both concluded that the £1,000 
Haven had offered was reasonable in the circumstances. They both mentioned that the 
estimate originally provided by Mr W for the rectification work included items that didnt 
appear to be anything to do with the original repair. And that there was insufficient evidence 
to prove Havens repairer had damaged the roof on Mr Ws car. 
Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision, as he wasnt happy with the view taken by the 
investigators. He maintained the inspecting engineer agreed a revised cost for the work with 
his repairer and that he shouldnt be left out of pocket, having paid over £2,400 to get the 
work done.
Having reviewed the complaint, I asked Mr W to provide a copy of the revised estimate for 
the work that his repairer had agreed with the engineer appointed by Haven. I also spoke to 
the repairer and they confirmed this was what was agreed. Mr W also told me hed never 
had the £1,000 that Haven had offered.
I then put it to Haven that this seemed a reasonable estimate for the rectification work 
required and that the repairer had told me it was what theyd agreed with the engineer. I 
suggested that, in view of this, and in the absence of a breakdown of the £1,000 for 
rectification work suggested by their engineer, they should pay Mr W what hed paid his 
repairer, plus interest. I also suggested they should pay him £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced as a result of the poor handling of his claim. 
I also told Mr W this was what I was likely to make Haven pay if I upheld his complaint and 
he confirmed he was happy with this. 
I gave Haven until 10 January to provide further comments and evidence, but they havent 
responded to my email. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must handle 
claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and other 
industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint.
Its clear to me from the engineers report and the comments and photographs provided by 
Mr W that Havens approved repairer didnt carry out the repairs to his car properly and a 
considerable amount of rectification work was needed. Haven dont dispute this, but think 
this could have been done for £1,000. But, other than one line by the engineer on his report, 
theyve not provided any evidence to support this view. Whereas Mr W has provided detailed 
estimates and photographs. Hes also provided a testimony backed up by the repairer saying 
that the engineer actually agreed the costs with the repairer he used. And, having checked 
the estimate alongside the work carried out by Havens approved repairer, Im satisfied it 
was all required to rectify the issues caused by the previous repair, excluding the damage to 
the roof. What Mr W paid does include the cost of repairing the dent in the roof. And hes 
provided photographs of his car before the accident that gave rise to his claim. And, 
although these are from a bit before the accident, they and what Mr W has said has 
persuaded me the dent to the roof did happen whilst it was with Havens repairer. 
In my opinion, the evidence strongly favours Mr W. Therefore, I think it is most likely what Mr 
W paid to have the rectification work to his car carried out was reasonable and Haven should 
reimburse him for it and the cost of repairing the roof. 
I also think the way Haven handled Mr Ws claim was very poor. It seems they appointed an 
engineer, who then agreed repair costs with Mr Ws repairer. He then either didnt let Haven 
know or he did and Haven missed it. And, when Mr W told Haven this, they completely 
ignored it and stuck with their offer of £1,000. This clearly caused Mr W a great deal of 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and I think he needs to be compensated for this. 
Ive decided £200 would be fair, as I think it fairly reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience Mr W experienced. 
Putting things right
In view of what Ive said, Ive decided Haven should reimburse what Mr W paid to have the rectification work carried out on his car and what he paid to have the dent in the roof 
repaired. This was £2,443.20, including VAT. The invoice Mr W has provided is dated 18 
March 2022, so I think Haven should add interest from this date to the date they make the 
payment at 8% per year simple.1
Ive also decided Haven should pay Mr W £200 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint about Haven 
Insurance Company Limited. And I order them to do what Ive set out in the Putting things 
right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Haven Insurance Company Limited must tell Mr W if they have made a deduction for 
income tax. And, if they have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax 
deduction certificate for Mr W if asked to do so. This will allow Mr W to reclaim the tax from 
His Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.