DRN-2950622
The complaint
Mr B complains about Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) failure to cancel his 
home emergency policy as he instructed. 
What happened
Mr B had a home emergency policy with Homeserve that was due to automatically renew in 
October 2020. The renewal notice was sent in early September 2020.  Mr B didnt want to 
renew and read the policy terms and conditions which said policy holders could cancel if 
they contacted Homeserve by phone or in writing. So, Mr B posted a letter to Homeserve, 
instructing it to cancel the policy. Mr B believed that the policy had been cancelled. 
In January 2021, he noticed that the monthly premium was still being taken, so he contacted 
Homeserve and cancelled the policy. Homeserve made a pro rata refund of £21, for the 
remaining month but refused to refund the previous months premiums, that were taken and 
totalled £87. Mr B said that Homeserve told him that had it received his letter, it wouldve 
written back to him requesting that he call to cancel his policy over the phone. Mr B felt that 
this was contrary to the policy terms and conditions and raised a complaint.
In its final response, it said that it hadnt received the letter instructing them to cancel the 
policy. So, it was unable to agree that it had made any errors. Mr B was unhappy by this 
outcome and referred a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that as there was no proof that Homeserve received the letter (which he didnt doubt 
had been sent by Mr B) he couldnt hold Homeserve responsible for not receiving Mr Bs 
instruction to cancel the policy. He also said that Homeserve had given Mr B reasonable 
notice of renewal and had renewed the policy fairly. So, there was nothing he could 
reasonably ask Homeserve to do. 
Mr B did not accept our investigators view he said that he had done what was requested by 
Homeserve to cancel his policy and for Homeserve to tell him that he couldnt cancel only by 
writing in, was wrong and contrary to the terms and conditions of the policy. So, he asked for 
a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment 
to Mr B, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr B complaint is that Homeserve wanted him to phone in addition to writing and instructing 
it to cancel the policy, which hadnt been made clear in the terms and conditions. 
Homeserve said that it hadnt received the letter and because of this, it didnt cancel the 
policy when Mr B had requested. I have considered the policy documents and there are 
elements within them that provide details of how policies can be cancelled. What is clear is 
that policies can be cancelled either by phoning Homeserve or sending a letter to it. There is 
no requirement for having to additionally call Homeserve to cancel. 
In addition, Mr B said that Homeserve told him that he had had to call in addition to writing. I 
asked Homeserve about this. It confirmed that it was not compulsory for customers to write 
and phone in to cancel a policy. But where a customer chooses to write it and cancel, then it 
is always best for a customer to contact them by phone to follow-up the written instructions. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr B could cancel via writing and Homeserve wouldve accepted that.
I understand that Mr B was reluctant to phone Homeserve to affect the cancellation and so 
opted to send a letter. Whilst I accept that Mr B did send the letter (as there is no evidence to 
the contrary) Homeserve said that had it received the letter it wouldve been scanned on its 
file and the instruction to cancel wouldve been actioned. 
Mr B said that he was unable to send the letter by a faster postal method so there is no 
evidence to show that Homeserve had received the letter. Consequently, I cant hold 
Homeserve responsible for not receiving the instruction, as the event was outside of its 
control and its likely that the error was as a result of the postal service. And as Homeserve 
didnt receive the letter, then I think it was reasonable for it to renew the policy as there was 
no express instruction for it to cancel the policy. 
Overall, I dont think Homeserve had acted unfairly by renewing Mr Bs policy as it hadnt 
received the instructions not to.  And Im satisfied that Mr B could cancel his policy in writing 
which Homeserve wouldve accepted had it received the cancellation letter. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr B. But I think Homeserve has applied the policy terms fairly and I 
cant reasonably ask it to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman