DRN-2694516
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Cofunds Limited delayed payment of some money she needed to 
complete a house purchase. This caused her a great deal of stress as she had to resort to 
borrowing money from her family.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs Ps IFA made an on-line request to Cofunds for the balance of her 
General Investment Account (GIA) and Individual Savings Account (ISA) to be transferred to 
her bank account. 
As the sums involved were quite large  around £136,000 from the GIA and £90,000 from 
the ISA  verification checks needed to be performed on the bank account. As Mrs P was 
living in rented accommodation pending her house move, this wasnt possible. So, her IFA 
requested that payment instead be made to a different bank account that Cofunds already 
had a verified record of. 
Payment was made on 23 August 2019. The larger GIA amount went through successfully, 
but the ISA payment didnt. That money was returned to the ISA and a further attempt to 
make payment was made on 29 August 2019. 
By this time Mrs Ps IFA had spoken with Cofunds about the delay and it had become 
apparent that Cofunds records showed the destination bank account to be in joint names, 
which was no longer the case  it had previously been changed to Mrs Ps sole name. 
Because Cofunds had been unaware of the change and had used the joint names as a 
payment reference, the payment had failed. 
Unfortunately, by the time this came to light a second attempt at payment had already been 
made, again using the joint name reference, so a further failure occurred. It was only on a 
third attempt, using the corrected sole name reference, that the payment was eventually 
successful. 
A complaint was made to Cofunds, but it didnt feel it had done anything wrong. In short, it 
felt that as it hadnt been aware that the destination bank account had been changed to 
Mrs Ps sole name it had no reason not to use the joint name details it had on record. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Cofunds. 
He also noted that the two payments had been made by different methods  the GIA 
payment as a faster payment and the ISA as a CHAPS payment. He said that this 
difference had in part caused the problem because the destination bank had carried out 
different checks on the CHAPS payment than it did on the faster payment, which was why 
the joint name issue had been picked up for the ISA but not for the GIA. 
Nevertheless, the investigator didnt think this warranted upholding the complaint against 
Cofunds, as the two different transfer methods were both same-day services and Cofunds 
wouldnt have been aware that the destination bank would carry out different checks.
Mrs P didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said that Cofunds had been aware that 
speed was important and could have contacted her. Thered been no communication with 
her, and no explanation given. As such, it had been a very stressful and upsetting 
experience.   
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this wouldve been a very stressful experience for Mrs P. Moving to a new 
house can be difficult and worrying at the best of times. So, having a delay with a significant 
amount of money thats vital to the success of the completion would be very concerning.
But that said, having carefully considered all the circumstances and actions taken by the 
various parties, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Cofunds should be held 
responsible for the problems that arose. 
In respect of the reference it used when sending the payments, Cofunds had no reason to 
be aware that it should only use Mrs Ps sole name. It was unfortunate that the second 
attempt repeated the problem. But by the time it was informed of the issue, the second 
payment had already been initiated. Ive thought about whether Cofunds shouldve taken 
more steps to clarify the situation before submitting the second attempt. But I think that with 
speed being of the essence, it was reasonable for it to simply try and put the payment 
through again.
In respect of the issue of the two different methods of payment being used, it appears this 
came about because a note confirming that faster payment should be used was only added 
to the GIA. As there was no note on the ISA, the default method of CHAPS was used. It was 
confirmed to the IFA that faster payment would be used for both payments. And had that 
happened then it does seem likely that the delay wouldnt have occurred, as it was checks 
done on the CHAPS payment for the ISA that spotted the name issue. 
I accept that this could be considered to be an error on the part of Cofunds. It didnt, strictly 
speaking, adhere to what it told the IFA it would do  that both payments would be made by 
the faster method. 
But CHAPS payment was also a same-day service and it came at no greater cost to Mrs P. 
Cofunds couldnt reasonably have foreseen that the destination bank would do more 
stringent checks on the CHAPS payment than the faster payment, particularly as the CHAPS 
payment was for significantly less than the faster payment. Further, I think that if the IFA had 
been told that the payments would be by CHAPS rather than faster payment, he would most 
likely have been happy with this, as he too wouldve had no reason to suspect that using 
CHAPS would cause a problem. Or, to put it another way, that not using CHAPS would 
avoid the problem. 
So, despite Cofunds not making both payments in precisely the same way, I dont think I can 
reasonably hold it responsible for the delay. Using faster payment for both the GIA and the 
ISA would most likely have avoided the problem. But that was only because an issue that was in no way the fault of Cofunds  the use of the joint names  would, effectively by 
chance, not have been picked up. 
As I said before, I do appreciate that this will have a been a difficult experience for Mrs P and 
she has my sympathy. I note what shes said about communication with Cofunds. But it does 
appear that when contacted by her IFA it tried to put the matter right promptly. This was 
undoubtably a very unfortunate set of circumstances that arose. But, overall, I dont think it 
would be fair to place blame for it with Cofunds.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman