DRN-3733354
The complaint
Mr K complains that eToro (UK) Ltd closed his positions without properly attempting to 
contact him. He said that he didnt receive the emails it had sent him asking for additional 
documentation. He said eToros decision caused him financial loss for which he required 
compensation. 
What happened
Mr K had a trading account which he primarily used to trade cryptocurrencies. In April 2022, 
eToro wrote to him to ask for certain documents  including a specific form, a copy of an 
identity document and a bill or bank statement. It asked for this information within 14 days as 
failure to do so will result in limiting your trading account, meaning you will not be able to 
open new trades, make any new deposits or request withdrawals. 
Just over two weeks later, eToro sent Mr K a further email. It said that it had not yet received 
these documents or a response. It gave Mr K another 14 days to provide them  and 
explained that if this didnt happen, it would lead to his account being reviewed which might 
lead to a closure of open positions and the refunding of any remaining funds. 
On 13 May 2022, eToro wrote to Mr K again. It explained that his account remained limited, 
and gave him 5 days to provide the relevant information or his account would be closed, 
and a further chase was set about a week later. eToro also called Mr K and sent another 
chaser on 31 May 2022. At it received no reply, on 12 June 2022 it closed Mr Ks trades at 
the current rate  this crystallised losses for Mr K on the cryptocurrencies he owned. 
In June 2022 Mr K complained to eToro and asked for his account and positions to be 
reinstated. It looked into his complaint, and didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
However, as a gesture of goodwill, it calculated the total amount of units Mr K had at the 
time of the closeout:
2362.979371 in XRP;
21.300804 in Ethereum Classic and
3.826933 in Dash. 
It said that following the closure of his positions, he received $1,042.01. And it said that in 
order to buy back the units above, Mr K needed to invest $1,430.466  the difference 
between the sum that was returned to him and this new figure being $388.456. 
This meant that Mr K wouldve been in exactly the same position he wouldve been had the 
closeout not occurred. eToro agreed to compensate Mr K $390 in order for him to reopen his 
trades and made this payment to him. 
However, Mr K remained unhappy and claimed that he should be refunded his paper losses 
of over $7,000. He said that if he hadnt been closed out, he wouldve waited until the prices 
of the various instruments recovered. When agreement couldnt be reached, he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that eToro needed to comply with regulatory requirements that required Mr K to provide 
certain information to it. He was warned what would happen if he didnt. She found that 
eToro called and emailed Mr K to ask for this information but received no reply  she also 
found that it had sent him some chaser emails. As Mr K didnt reply, eToro was entitled to go 
ahead and close his trades  and it was only at this point that Mr K provided it with the 
information it had asked for. At this point, eToro offered to reinstate Mr Ks trades but he 
declined. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigator. He said he provided information when he first opened 
his account, and he thought he had provided everything that was required. He said he had 
completed the W-8BEN form twice in order to invest in the US stock market, but he never 
went ahead and invested. The last time he had completed the form was in October 2020, 
and this form had all the required details on it  including his national insurance number his 
address and everything else required to verify his account. 
He also said that clause 12 in the agreement says that it could freeze, block or close the 
account  so why did eToro take the extreme measure, turning his paper losses into real 
losses? Mr K said that he thought everything was ok and he maintained that he was never 
notified that more information was required from him, particularly as he had opened his 
account so long before. He repeated his claim for $7,799 losses. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but I dont have much to add to what the investigator has told 
him. 
Ive seen the chain of emails and attempts to contact Mr K  Im satisfied eToro made all 
reasonable attempts to elicit relevant information from Mr K, and I agree with the investigator 
that eToro was entitled to request this information from Mr K. Mr K has queried why it went 
ahead and closed his trades, instead of freezing or blocking his account  but its clear to me 
that it had already taken these steps before liquidating his account. Mr Ks account was 
limited to managing open positions for over a month before it decided it had no option but to 
close his trades. So Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable, having attempted to contact Mr 
K multiple times and having already frozen his account, to use the power it had under the 
terms to take this action. 
Furthermore, even if I thought eToro had done something wrong, its offer wouldve put Mr K 
back in the position he wouldve been in. Mr Ks claim for a refund of over $7,000 would not 
be fair and reasonable, because it would put him in a better position than he was at the time. 
eToros payment of $390, plus the amount that was refunded to Mr K when the 
cryptocurrencies were sold, essentially put Mr K back in the position he was at the time  
with the same number of units in the cryptocurrencies he was invested in and the same net 
position. His paper losses were due to him buying these cryptocurrencies in the past, at far 
higher prices than they were in June 2021. If Mr K believed that these assets would appreciate in value in the future, he had an opportunity to benefit from any growth at that 
moment in time as if his assets had never been sold. This means that eToros offer was also 
fair and reasonable. 
For all these reasons, Im satisfied that Mr K was treated fairly and reasonably by eToro and 
it neednt do anything further to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman