DRN-4413389
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Scottish Widows Limited has unfairly declined a claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a critical illness insurance policy, underwritten by Scottish Windows. 
Mrs D made a claim following an illness but Scottish Widows declined the claim as it wasnt 
one of the conditions listed as being covered. 
Mr and Mrs D complained and unhappy with Scottish Widows response, referred their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. During our investigation, Scottish Widows made 
an offer of £250 compensation for not explaining its claim decision as well as it could have 
done. Our investigator thought this was fair and concluded that Scottish Widows hadnt 
incorrectly or unfairly declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed and in summary said the symptoms Mrs D suffered from were 
covered under the policy.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Scottish Widows decision was unfair or incorrect and its offer 
of £250 compensation is fair. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Mr and Mrs D have a critical illness policy which pays out for specific conditions, as 
confirmed in the policy documents. Mrs Ds condition is not listed in the policy 
documents and so Scottish Widows correctly declined the claim.
But Mr and Mrs D said the symptoms were the same as those under two other 
conditions listed in the policy and consideration should have been given to this. But 
this is not how the policy works. The policy pays out for specified conditions where 
the criteria set out directly underneath that condition is met. It doesnt pay for simply 
being diagnosed with the condition. The symptoms listed underneath each condition 
show how severe the condition needs to be, before a benefit becomes payable. 
Mr and Mrs D also said that newer versions of the policy cover the condition Mrs D 
was diagnosed with. And they didnt think Scottish Widows was treating them fairly 
by covering the condition for new applicants. Mr and Mrs Ds policy was underwritten 
and agreed many years ago taking into account their needs and circumstances. At 
the time, the specific conditions which were covered were listed. This forms the basis 
of the contract of insurance between Mr and Mrs D and Scottish Widows. I dont think 
newer policies with different terms are relevant. And Scottish Widows isnt acting 
unfairly by applying the correct terms and conditions.
Scottish Widows accepts it could have provided a better explanation to Mr and Mrs D 
when it declined the claim. It said that even though the condition is listed under the 
new policy, that doesnt necessarily mean a benefit will be paid as a permanent 
neurological deficit is also required. Scottish Widows says this isnt a common 
feature seen in Mrs Ds variant. In any event, as the condition is not listed in Mr and 
Mrs Ds policy, I dont think Scottish Widows has incorrectly declined the claim.
For failing to provide a detailed explanation earlier on, Scottish Widows has offered 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused which I think is 
reasonable. As the claim decision was correct, I dont think a higher award would be 
appropriate as I am only considering the impact of the explanation given to Mr and 
Mrs D at the time - a clearer explanation might have helped them understand the 
decision better. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs D have raised a new concern about premium protection cover. 
This isnt a complaint which has been made to Scottish Widows and it hasnt been 
investigated. So it doesnt form part of my decision. Mr and Mrs D will have to raise 
this directly with Scottish Widows. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Scottish Widows Limiteds offer is fair and so I direct it 
to pay Mr and Mrs D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused as a 
result of not providing a clearer explanation when it declined the claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman