The complaint  
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander UK Plc didnt do affordability checks before offering 
them a mortgage. They say the mortgage wasnt suitable or affordable. Mr and Mrs C ask 
for a refund of fees and interest and compensation.  
What happened  
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Santander in 2013. This was on a part capital 
repayment and part  interest only basis. Mr C says if Santander had made proper checks it 
would have known the mortgage wasnt affordable. He says the repayment strategy  selling 
the property  wasnt appropriate.  
Mr C says the resulting financial hardship meant he had to retire early and use his pension 
lump sum to repay unsecured debts and reduce the mortgage balance. He says this will 
impact his pension and long -term financial position.  
Our investigator said the mortgage was recommended by a broker. The broker was 
responsible for checking the mortgage was suitable. Santander offered the mortgage to Mr 
and Mrs C based on the information it received. At that time, sale of the property was a n 
acceptable repayment strategy. Our investigator said Santander hadnt acted wrongly.  
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. Mr C said Santander had a responsibility to lend responsibly. He 
sent extracts from decisions by the courts and this service to support what he said. Mr C 
said Santander should have questioned the information in the mortgage  application.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this compla int. 
Mr and Mrs Cs application was made via a broker, and so Santander didnt advise them on 
whether it was suitable or affordable or make any recommendation on whether it should be 
taken out. It simply accepted an application from the broker and made a lending decision.  
However, rules on mortgage regulation set out in the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) apply to it as the lender even in a broker sale. In 
particular, the rules say it had a duty under MCOB 11 to lend res ponsibly.  
The rules of mortgage regulation, at the time, required a lender to take account of a 
borrowers ability to pay. As part of the mortgage was on an interest only basis, there were 
two parts to this: the monthly payments and repayment of the balan ce when the term 
expired.  
DRN-1872710The mortgage application form says Mr and Mrs C had annual income of about £43,000 and  
£13,500, respectively. Their monthly net income was about £ 3,200. The application form 
said their regular monthly expenditure was £1,700. Initially, monthly mortgage payments 
were £385 as a fixed interest product was in place. When this ended, the monthly payments 
would increase to £540 (assuming interest rates re mained the same and Mr and Mrs C 
didnt take out a new interest rate product).  
The mortgage term expires in 2030. The application form said Mr and Mrs C each intended 
to retire in their mid -sixties, after the mortgage term expires. It said they both inten ded to 
continue in their current jobs.  
Based on the information Santander received, the monthly payments appeared affordable.  
Mr C says the intended retirement ages on the application are wrong and not their actual 
position. He says their outgoings excee ded their income, and theyd only been managing 
due to inheriting some money. But I dont think Santander could have known this. I dont 
think there was anything in the information it received to alert it to Mr and Mrs C being in 
financial hardship or for it to doubt what it had been told.  
The application form said Mr and Mrs C intended to sell the property to repay the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs C were buying a six bedroomed property, with a purchase price of £270,000. As 
the interest only part of the mortgage was £135,000, Mr and Mrs C would have expected 
some equity when they sold the property. So planning to downsize to a smaller property 
would have seemed credible.  
Mr C says selling the property was never a realistic strategy as their children will most lik ely 
still be living with them when the term expires. The mortgage application says Mr and Mrs C 
had five financial dependents, the youngest aged 1. By the time the 17 -year term of Mr and 
Mrs Cs interest only mortgage expires, most of their children will b e young adults.  
Santander wouldnt have known Mr and Mrs C would have more children after taking out the 
mortgage or how many children might be living with them at the end of the term. If Mr and 
Mrs C didnt intend to repay the mortgage by sale of the prop erty, or always knew this wasnt 
realistic, I dont think Santander would have known  this. 
Selling the property was an acceptable repayment strategy at that time and theres nothing 
in the mortgage application form to suggest this wasnt credible here. I can understand that 
Mr and Mrs C might prefer not to have to do this. Theres some time before the term expires. 
Mr and Mrs C might want to discuss their options with Santander, or consider taking 
independent advice to explore their  options.  
My final deci sion 
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.  
Ruth Stevenson  Ombudsman  