DRN-4100290
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as R has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to
turn down its claim following the theft of an insured vehicle under its Mini Fleet insurance
policy, on the basis it did not have an insurable interest in it.
R is represented by Mr M.
What happened
R is a vets practice and made a claim for a vehicle that was stolen in July 2022, which it has 
said had been rebuilt and had the rear converted to a vet ambulance. Mr M bought the 
chassis, wheels and engine and the registration number of the vehicle in 2019. And he 
registered the vehicle in his name in June 2022. He is the partner of the only director of R, 
wholl Ill refer to as Ms B. Mr M has further explained that he and Ms B decided to rebuild 
the vehicle for it to be used as part of Rs business. Mr M has said R paid for the rebuild and 
conversion and that the vehicle actually belonged to R at the point it was stolen. 
Mr M provided Aviva with a copy of the invoice for the rebuild of the vehicle of around 
£20,000 made out to him on behalf of R. And he also provided a bank statement from Rs 
bank account to show a £35,000 withdrawal, which he said was the cash used to pay for the 
rebuild.
Aviva took some time to consider the claim, but eventually decided there was insufficient
evidence that the vehicle was owned by R. And this meant R didnt have an insurable
interest in it. In view of this, they retrospectively deleted the vehicle from cover and turned
down Rs claim. Mr M complained to Aviva on behalf of R, but they stood by their decision on
the claim.
Mr M asked us to consider Rs complaint. One of our investigators did this. She gathered
more evidence from Mr M and sent this to Aviva. She suggested R had provided sufficient
evidence to show it had an insurable interest in the stolen vehicle and that Aviva should
consider Rs claim on this basis.
Aviva did not agree with the investigator and the case was passed to me for a decision.
Having reviewed the evidence, I spoke at some length with Mr M and he provided
further evidence to support his assertion that the stolen vehicle belonged to R. 
I also offered to discuss the complaint with Aviva, but they didnt indicate they would like to 
do so.
When I spoke to Mr M he explained hed originally purchased the chassis, wheels and
engine of the vehicle and the registration number and had planned to get it rebuilt. He and 
Ms B then decided that R would pay to rebuild the vehicle and that it would be used for Rs 
business as a vet. And this is why they had the rear upgraded to be a vet ambulance. He 
explained that he registered the vehicle in his name in June 2022 as he did not really think 
about the significance of doing so.
Mr M provided the following additional evidence to us and copies of these documents
were provided to Aviva:
A copy of the original invoice for the rebuild, from a company Ill refer to as C, of
£20,037.90.
A copy of an invoice for the conversion of the rear of the vehicle to a vet ambulance,
produced by the company that did the work; albeit produced after R had made the
claim for the vehicle, but dated at the time the work was carried out.
Mr M explained that he paid both invoices in cash. And that he paid the company which
did the rebuild in cash instalments as the work progressed.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 April 2023. In this I explained why Id provisionally 
decided that R had established it had an insurable interest in the vehicle and that Aviva 
should consider Rs claim on the basis it did. 
I gave the parties until 27 April 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in response 
to my provisional decision. 
Mr M responded to say R agreed with it. Aviva asked if they could discuss the complaint with 
me over the telephone. As Id spoken to Mr M on several occasions, I thought it was 
appropriate to speak with Aviva. After theyd spoken with me Aviva confirmed that they 
accepted R had demonstrated a financial interest in the insured vehicle and that this means 
an insurable interest exists. And they went on to say they are now willing to review and re-
assess this claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with what I provisionally decided, I see no reason to comment further 
or alter my view on the fair and reasonable outcome to Rs complaint. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and in this final decision, Ive decided to 
uphold Rs complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited and make them consider its claim in 
accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of its policy, on the basis R did have an 
insurable interest in the vehicle it has claimed for at the point it was stolen.
I should make it clear that I am not saying Aviva have to settle Rs claim. I am just saying 
they must consider it on the basis R had an insurable interest in the vehicle it claimed for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Rs complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited and order 
Aviva to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 Robert Short
Ombudsman