DRN-3290243
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J have complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) avoided their home insurance 
policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay their claim.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs J took out a home insurance policy with QIC via a price comparison website. 
Mr J and Mrs J had a fire at their home, so they contacted QIC to make a claim. QIC 
investigated the claim and told Mr J and Mrs J they had answered the questions about 
cracking to external walls incorrectly. It considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to cancel the policy from the beginning and to decline the 
claim, but to refund the premiums paid.
When Mr J and Mrs J brought their complaint to this service, our investigator upheld the 
complaint. She said there hadnt been a misrepresentation, as Mr J and Mrs J had given an 
appropriate response to the question asked based on what Mr J and Mrs J had been told in 
a homebuyers survey. She said QIC should reinstate the policy, remove any references to 
the voidance from databases and refund any cancellation fee if this was charged. She also 
said QIC should deal with the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions and pay £350 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
As QIC didnt respond to the investigators findings, the case was referred to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC thinks Mr J and Mrs J failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they first took out the policy by incorrectly answering a question about cracks to the 
external walls to the property. Ive looked at what was asked when Mr J and Mrs J took out 
the policy. The application process included statements that said:
Your property has NOT been subject to subsidence or had structural support or 
underpinning within the last 10 years
It does NOT show signs of cracking in external walls
Mr J and Mrs J agreed with these statements. Shortly after the policy came into force, Mr J 
and Mrs J made a claim for a fire. QIC sent a surveyor to assess the fire damage, who found 
cracking to the external render. QIC has provided evidence to show that if there was 
cracking to external walls that it wouldnt have agreed to provide the policy.
Mr J and Mrs J have said that when they took out the policy, they looked at a homebuyers 
report that had been carried out a few years previously. They said that although this referred 
to cracking, this was to the render, not to the walls themselves. Ive looked at that report and 
agree that it only refers to cracks in the render and to some plaster within an internal 
cupboard. So, I dont think the question was clear that it required Mr J and Mrs J to declare 
any cracking to the render as well. If QIC wanted to know this, it could have asked it as part 
of its questions.
I also note that the question asks about signs of cracking in external walls. Render is 
applied to walls as a form of covering. So, I think there is a difference between the external 
walls themselves and any rendering that is added to it. QICs response to Mr J and Mrs Js 
complaint also said The cracking  is within the cement render which is located on an 
external wall. I think this also suggests there is a difference between the render and the 
walls. I dont think cracks within the render showed there were therefore cracks in the 
external walls themselves or that a question about cracks in external walls meant issues with 
the render had to be declared as part of responding to the statement. 
Im aware QIC has also said the homebuyers report said there was evidence of movement, 
which it said should also have been declared. However, Ive seen nothing within the 
questions QIC asked that required Mr J and Mrs J to declare this. The report confirmed there 
was no evidence of subsidence and didnt refer to any signs of previous structural 
stabilisation. So, I think Mr J and Mrs J took reasonable care to answer the questions 
accurately and that they therefore didnt make a misrepresentation.
So, based on the above, I uphold this complaint. As a result, I require QIC to reinstate the 
policy and remove any reference to the voidance from internal and external databases. If Mr 
J and Mrs J were charged a cancellation fee, this should be refunded to them and interest 
paid on that amount. QIC should also deal with the claim for the fire in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Mr J and Mrs J should be aware that even if the policy premium 
was previously refunded to them, they will need to pay the relevant policy premium for the 
policy to be reinstated.
Ive also thought about compensation. When Mr J and Mrs J complained to this service, they 
explained that the policy voidance had caused them a lot of anxiety and sleepless nights. 
They had also found it difficult to get insurance elsewhere. So, thinking about this, I require 
QIC to pay Mr J and Mrs J £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
them. 
Putting things right
QIC should reinstate the policy and remove any references to the policy voidance from 
internal and external databases. It should also refund the cancellation fee, if one was 
charged, and pay interest on that amount. QIC should also deal with the claim for the fire 
and pay £350 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC 
Europe Ltd to:
Reinstate the policy.
Remove any references to the policy voidance from internal and external databases.
Refund Mr J and Mrs J any cancellation fee, if one was charged, and pay 8% simple 
interest on that amount from the date on which it was charged to the date on which it is 
refunded.
Deal with the claim for the fire under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay Mr J and Mrs J £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman