DRN-3027679
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC sent him a letter advising that his account is 
considered as being in a state of persistent debt.
What happened
Mr B received a letter from Lloyds which stated that his account was considered as being in 
a state of persistent debt. The letter also stated that if Mr Bs account remained in a state of 
persistent debt it may be the case that further use of the account might be suspended in the 
future. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Bs complaint. But they felt that they had correctly identified Mr Bs 
account as being in a state of persistent debt, so they didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Lloyds had correctly 
determined that Mr Bs account met the criteria for being considered as being in persistent 
debt, so they also didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The FCA considers that an account is in a state of persistent debt if the level of interest 
which accrues on that account is such that the monthly payments made by the customer 
towards that account result in the customer paying more in interest and charges than they do 
towards paying off the capital balance on the account, over a prolonged period.
 
This can often be the case where a customer is paying close to the minimum payment
required on the account, which can result in the customer repaying the monthly interest that 
accrues but making little progress towards reducing the capital balance outstanding on the 
account - meaning that monthly interest payments at a similar level keep becoming due.
 
Because of concerns about the long-term viability of such a situation for credit account
holders, the FCA issued new rules surrounding how a credit provider must manage accounts
that are considered as being in a state of persistent debt. These rules came into force in 
March 2018 and include that a credit provider must send letters to persistent debt customers 
advising that their account is considered as being in persistent debt and explaining the level 
of additional monthly payment that the customer needs to make so that their account is no 
longer considered as being in such a state.
 
These letters should also advise customers of the potential consequences, should their 
account remain in a state of persistent debt, which can include the suspension of the 
account and the initiation of a payment plan designed to clear the full outstanding balance 
over a period of no more than four years  although these actions would only be mandated 
under very specific conditions as per a further FCA update to credit providers issued in 
February 2020.
In this instance its clear that the payments that Mr B has made towards the account are 
such that Mr B has paid more in interest and charges than he has towards clearing the 
capital balance of the account. For instance, Mr B himself has confirmed that he made 
payments totalling £517.09 over a specific period, and that the interest charged during that 
period was £319.56. As such, Mr B contends that he has paid more towards the account 
(£517.09) than he has been charged in interest and charges (£319.56).
I can appreciate Mr Bs position here, but in actual fact the amount that he has paid towards 
the account (£517.09) includes the payment for the interest and charges that have accrued. 
This means that of the £517.09 that Mr B has paid, £319.56 of that amount was for accrued 
interest and charges, meaning that only £197.53 of the £517.09 went towards reducing the 
outstanding capital balance on the account. 
As such, its evident that Mr B has been paying more in interest and charges (£319.56) than 
he has towards the capital balance of the account (£197.53) and it follows from that that Im 
satisfied that Lloyds are correct to identify that Mr Bs account is in a state of persistent debt 
and to have written to Mr B explaining this fact accordingly.
Im aware that Mr B feels that Lloyds communication on this matter is confusing and that 
Lloyds explanation of what constitutes persistent debt is unclear. I can appreciate Mr Bs 
position here, but I hope that this letter provides confirmation of what persistent debt status 
refers to as well as confirmation that Lloyds havent acted incorrectly or unfairly by 
recognising his account as being one that meets the definition of being in persistent debt. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr B was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action at this time. I trust 
that Mr B will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman