DRN-3184818
The complaint
Mr M complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim under his motor 
insurance policy, after another driver said he caused a car accident which resulted in 
personal injury and damage to her vehicle.
References to AXA include its agents.
What happened
In mid-2020, Mr M was involved in an accident, where his car made contact with the car in 
front of him. Mr M says that there didnt appear to be damage on either of the vehicles. He 
exchanged telephone numbers with the other driver and said he would be willing to pay for 
repairs if any scratches were found later. When Mr M phoned AXA to advise it of the 
incident, he said he would like the option to pay for any damage to the other drivers car.
In March 2021, Mr M called his insurance broker as he wanted to get proof of his no claims 
discount (NCD) because his motor insurance policy was coming up for renewal. The broker 
told Mr M that the other driver had made a personal injury claim and advised him to speak to 
AXA.
Mr M then spoke to AXA who told him that his NCD would be lost because a fault claim had 
been registered against him. AXA said it had paid over a £1,000 for damage to the other 
vehicle involved in the accident. AXA apologised for not informing Mr M of this before. It said 
it had attempted to send him an email, but the email address was misspelt. AXA told Mr M 
that the other drivers personal injury claim hadnt yet been settled because it was waiting for 
a medical report.
Mr M said hed received a call from someone claiming to be from AXA who wanted to speak 
to the passenger who was in his car during the incident. When Mr M told the caller there 
wasnt a passenger, they hung up. AXA said the call didnt appear to have been from them.
Mr M made a complaint to AXA. He disputed the amount of damage the other driver was 
claiming for. He was also concerned about his data being breached.
AXA said it didnt have any concerns about the settlement amount paid to the other drivers 
insurers, based on the accident circumstances and damage reports. It denied there had 
been any data breach and referred Mr M to its privacy policy.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He thought AXA had acted fairly and reasonably, in line with the policys terms and 
conditions.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said that if AXA had informed him about the 
claim against him, he could have supplied information to show that the claim was fraudulent. 
He also referred to a case study on our website, where a consumer was awarded 
compensation because an insurer didnt inform them that a claim had been made against 
them. So, his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not my role, or the role of this service, to decide if the other drivers claim was genuine or 
to determine the amount AXA should have paid in relation to their claim. What Ive needed to 
decide is whether or not AXA has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policys 
terms and conditions.
The policys terms and conditions say that AXA has the right to take over and deal with the 
defence or settlement of any claim in the name of the person making a claim under this 
policy
Mr M hasnt disputed being responsible for the accident. He told AXA he would like the 
option to pay for any damage to the other car when he informed it of the incident. I 
appreciate Mr M was expecting any damage to be minor and believes the other driver might 
have exaggerated their claim. But AXA says it didnt have any concerns about the claim from 
the description of events and damage reports. 
Mr M feels that he lost out on the opportunity to defend the claim because AXA didnt make 
him aware of it before accepting it. He says that while he didnt have photographs from the 
scene of the accident, he would have provided pictures to show there was no damage to his 
own car. But AXA was already aware that Mr M didnt want to make a claim for damage to 
his own car. And I dont think photographs of Mr Ms car would likely have proved there was 
no damage to the other vehicle or that its driver didnt sustain any injuries.
The terms of the policy allow AXA to make the decision about whether to settle a claim or 
dispute it. Given the circumstances of the accident, I dont think AXAs decision to settle the 
claim was unreasonable.  
Mr M feels that he should be awarded compensation because AXA didnt tell him about the 
claim against him. Hes referred to a case study on our website where compensation was 
awarded due to a businesss poor communication. Our case studies are based broadly on 
real-life cases and are intended to give some insight into our general approach. But they are 
not precedents. Each case is decided on its own particular facts and merits. While AXAs 
communication with Mr M might have been better, this doesnt necessarily mean that an 
award of compensation is justified. This would depend on the impact the poor 
communication had on him.
Mr M made AXA aware that he was willing to pay for minor damage to the other car when he 
notified it of the accident. I understand this was to avoid it impacting his NCD. But taking into 
account the overall cost of the claim, I dont think it would have been financially beneficial to 
for Mr M to have paid the costs himself. So, Im not persuaded that Mr M incurred a financial 
loss from the delay in him being notified of the claim.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr M to have only found out about the claim when he was 
about to take out another policy and to find hed have to pay more than he was expecting to. 
But AXA has acknowledged that he wasnt told about the claim earlier because of an 
administrative error and apologised for this at the time. So, I think the overall impact of this 
was minimal and I dont think monetary compensation is warranted. Mr M also raised concerns about a potential data breach because of the call he received 
from someone claiming to be from AXA. I understand it was worrying for Mr M to be called 
by someone who appeared to have information about the accident. But I havent seen any 
evidence to show that AXA has shared Mr Ms data inappropriately. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman