DRN-3964960
The complaint
Mr P complains through his representative that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (s75 CCA) in respect of a holiday product purchased on 7 August 2008. The claim 
was made by Mr P because it was his credit card that was used to pay in part for the 
timeshare product, although I appreciate that the sale was made to both Mr and Mrs P. I also 
appreciate that Mr P is represented though for convenience I shall refer to Mr P throughout.
What happened
Mr P originally owned timeshare points which he had bought through a vacation club in 
1999. In 2008 because of rising management fees he was recommended to apply to 
upgrade to a membership of Club C (a different company). He and his wife attended a 
meeting in Spain where he says he was persuaded to buy the new membership on the basis 
that he was told hed effectively receive a cash refund of the purchase price of membership in 
2011.
He paid £11,950 for membership to Business G, partly funded through his credit card with 
NatWest. He finalised the membership in September 2008 and received a cashback 
voucher. In 2011, he applied for the refund of his old timeshare points, but instead of the 
£11,950 he was expecting, he only received £3,000.
Club C went into administration in October 2012. Mr P says he wasnt able to use any of the 
benefits of his membership from then and claims that Club C was in breach of contract which 
he believes NatWest to be liable for by virtue of s75 CCA.
Through his then representative Mr P made a complaint to NatWest under s75 CCA. 
NatWest said firstly that the six years allowed under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) for him to 
make a claim expired in August 2014, but he didnt assert any claim until 2017. Also it said 
that, in respect of the breach of contract claim, payments were made to a different company, 
not the supplier of the services. This meant that s75 CCA didnt apply as there wasnt a 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place.
Upon referral to this service, our investigator said that in respect of any alleged 
misrepresentations at the time of signing the contract, any claim made under s75 CCA would 
be out of time because of the LA. In respect of the claim for breach of contract under s75 
CCA our investigator said that as Club C wasnt an associated company of Business G (so 
there was no debtor-creditor-supplier chain), NatWest wasnt liable for any breach of 
contract which may have occurred when Club C went into administration.
Mr P disagreed, pointing out that the liquidators report when Club C went into administration 
mentioned a link between Business G and Club C and a report in a national newspaper also 
linking the two companies. Mr P always understood that he was buying Club Cs 
membership and that Business G was just acting as an agent for Club C.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont go into detail about the law that applies but essentially Mr Ps claim is brought under 
s75 CCA. In summary this sets out that a borrower under a credit agreement has equal 
rights to pursue a claim against the lender as against the supplier in respect of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract.
misrepresentation
Mr P feels that the alleged benefits of the purchase were misrepresented to him. He said 
that: The gross price of membership was £30K but we would only pay £12K. We were also 
offered a cashback scheme which would mature in 3 y[ears] at £11,950 which made it, in our 
opinion, almost a cash free transaction.
Under s2 of the LA, any action (in this case a claim under s75 CCA) must be brought within 
six years of the date the cause of action arose. In this case that date is 7 August 2008, when 
Mr P signed the contract. Mr P also received a voucher dated 5 September 2008 which said:
Welcome to [CE] the exciting cash reward promotion which offers you the opportunity to 
receive a refund of up to 100% of your Euro Voucher.
Im aware that Mr P wasnt able to redeem the voucher until September 2011, but any 
misrepresentation was made by September 2008 at the latest, so any claim should have 
been asserted by 5 September 2014. No claim was asserted to NatWest until 
September 2017  more than eight years after the date of the contract. So as NatWest 
would have had an absolute defence to any such claim because of the application of the LA, 
it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to consider Mr Ps complaint of misrepresentation under 
this section.
breach of contract
Mr P alleges breach of contract because Club C went into administration in October 2012 
and he says he was no longer able to enjoy the benefits of the membership. NatWest says 
its not liable for any breach on the part of Club C, because that company didnt receive the 
payment from Mr Ps credit card.
The only documents Ive seen from the time of sale are an agreement to purchase made 
between Mr and Mrs P and Business G, a copy of a letter confirming the complimentary 
holiday dated 23 July 2008 and a cashback voucher (including terms and conditions) 
supplied to Mr and Mrs P by CE.
For there to be a claim under s75 CCA there has to be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
chain, i.e. the creditor (NatWest) has paid the supplier (Club C) to provide the service to the 
debtor (Mr P). Here that chain was said to be broken because Club C didnt receive the 
payment from NatWest. A on behalf of Mr P alleges that the supplier was Club C because 
Business G was an associated company of Club C and/or Business G was acting purely as 
Club Cs agent in procuring the timeshare.
The front of the membership application form has only Business Gs logo on it and it says 
the agreement is made by Business G for the purpose of purchasing membership to 
Club C. And in the terms and conditions it says:I/we understand that the company whose details appear on the front side of this application 
is an independent entity authorised to sell memberships to [Club C].
I think Business G did procure the timeshare points for Mr and Mrs P, but it had a separate 
contract with them to do this. So I dont think NatWest is liable in any claim for breach of 
contract by Club C. That is because anything supplied by Club C was outside of the 
business arrangements between Mr P, Business G and NatWest. The company receiving 
payment was Business G. 
Under sections 184 and 187 CCA, if the company was an associated company of the 
ultimate supplier (Club C or CE) then NatWest could still be liable for a breach of contract by 
either. We have been referred us to the liquidators report which sets out a possible link 
between Business G and Club C and references an article in a national newspaper also 
speculating on such a link. But I dont think that shows that the liquidators found a link  Ive 
seen no evidence that Business G was named in the winding up petition. And although there 
is a reference to a named company administrator of Business G Ive seen no evidence that 
that person was linked to Club C.
Mr P has referred to the letter (from a travel agent) offering the complimentary holiday which 
refers to the vacation having been booked as part of Club Cs Open House Program, and 
that Mr P was required to attend a pre-arranged meeting with our member services 
department as part of the booking conditions. I dont think that adds anything further to the 
matter or that it means Club C was part of the debtor-creditor-supplier chain. I refer to the 
agreement to purchase dated 7 August 2008 which was clearly between Mr and Mrs P and 
Business G, the payment being made to the latter.
So my conclusion is that any claim for misrepresentation under s75 CCA is likely to be out of 
time under the Limitation Act and that NatWest does not have to answer for any breach of 
contract by Club C or CE. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman