DRN-2943320
The complaint
Mr L complains that one of a series of investment sales by Financial Administration Services 
Limited (FASL) was priced on the wrong day, incurring him a loss. And further, when he 
raised the issue with FASL he was misinformed about how the sales shouldve worked.
What happened
On 10 September 2020 Mr L placed seven switch instructions for his investment ISA on-line 
with FASL. His intention was to obtain the following days price for each of the related sales, 
so he deliberately placed the instructions after 11am, which he understood was the required 
cut-off point to get the following days price. 
A few days later he checked the switch confirmations and discovered that although six of the 
sales had gone through as intended at the following days price, 11 September 2020, the 
first one had used the current days price of 10 September 2020. As such, the sale had 
generated around £1,900 less than if the next days price had been obtained. 
Mr Ls representative queried this apparent anomaly with FASL. In a series of phone calls 
staff confirmed 11am as the cut-off point. A formal complaint was made, and in response 
FASL acknowledged that the information its staff had provided wasnt entirely accurate. 
Although 11am was generally the cut-off point, there were exceptions to this. And further, 
there was a 10-minute window following the 11am cut-off point during which orders might be 
aggregated, meaning that the current days price could still be applied to a sale. 
FASL said that its terms explained this potential for aggregation and the 10-minute window. 
So, it concluded that as the sale in question, the first of the switch instructions, had been 
placed at 11:09am it had been priced in accordance with its terms and conducted correctly. 
FASL did, however, accept that Mr L and his representative had been given incorrect 
information after the event and offered him £50 by way of an apology. 
This wasnt accepted and the matter was referred to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but reached broadly the same conclusions as 
FASL. He said, in brief:
FASLs terms and conditions and Key Features Document linked to its website. 
On the website there was a How are Funds Priced? section, which gave details of 
the 10-minute window.
It was reasonable to expect Mr L to have checked this information and the detail of 
pricing times given his very specific objective of issuing sale instructions on one day 
but obtaining the next days price.
While it was clear that incorrect information had been provided after the switches had 
been made, it wouldnt be fair to hold FASL to that information or for Mr L to benefit 
from it. 
Rather, a reasonable outcome was for FASL to compensate Mr L for the 
inconvenience the incorrect information had caused. And FASLs offer of £50 was fair 
in the circumstances, particularly as much of the inconvenience had been borne by 
Mr Ls representative in following up the matter.
Mr Ls representative said that Mr L didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said, in 
brief:
Mr L had been expected to know FASLs systems better than its own staff.
Selling at the same days price may have been deliberate as it involved the largest of 
the sales. 
If there was any uncertainty, Mr L understood that the ombudsman service would 
give the benefit of the doubt to the consumer.
There was no fairness in the way the sales had been carried out. The arbitrary 
choosing of one sale to be made differently was not treating customers fairly. 
It was outrageous that hed had to guess which sale might be made differently and 
they were all mainstream funds that wouldve traded easily. 
 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I can understand Mr Ls frustration when he discovered that one of the sales, the largest, 
had not been completed at the price hed intended, meaning it generated significantly less 
than if the desired price had been used. But I cant see that FASL did anything wrong in 
respect of the transaction.
Ive noted Mr L and his representatives comments about the relevant pricing information 
being hidden away and the sale itself being an arbitrary single selection from the seven 
instructions placed on 10 September 2020.   
But Ive looked at the information FASL provided on its website about pricing and feel that it 
was made clear that although 11am is generally the cut-off time after which the next days 
price will be used, there are exceptions. And importantly there was an explanation of the 10-
minute period after the cut-off point during which the sale might still be included in that days 
pricing. 
If Mr L overlooked this information for any reason, I dont think FASL can be held responsible 
for that. A sale placed at 11:09am, such as the sale in question, could be subject to 
aggregation and, in turn, the same days price. So, its not the case that what occurred was 
arbitrary, as Mr L has suggested. The remaining six sales were all instructed after the 10-
minute period had ended, between 11:13 and 11:25, and were therefore different. 
So, Im satisfied there was nothing wrong with the way in which FASL carried out the first 
sale. Where something did go wrong however, and FASL has accepted this, was after the 
sale, when several members of staff misinformed Mr Ls representative. I can appreciate this 
wouldve been frustrating and wouldnt in any way have helped reassure Mr L or his 
representative that the first sale had in fact been carried out correctly. So, I think its right 
that Mr L is compensated and feel that in all the circumstances the £50 offered is fair and reasonable, particularly as the following up of the matter was primarily done by Mr Ls 
representative rather than Mr L himself.
My final decision
Financial Administration Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the 
complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mr L £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman