DRN-2606128
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that St Andrews Insurance plc (SAI) declined her claim for storm 
damage.
What happened
Miss A had buildings and contents insurance with SAI. She noticed water damage in several 
areas of her ceiling where it joined the wall. Miss A made a claim under her policy for storm 
damage, which she believed had caused the water ingress. SAI didnt think thered been 
storm conditions, but it sent someone to inspect the damage. SAI declined the claim 
because the expert report stated that the flat roof showed signs of wear and tear which was 
the main cause of the leak.
Miss A complained because her own roofer said the roof was in good condition for its age. 
SAI remained of the view that voids in the roof covering, which had happened gradually, 
allowed water to leak through to the ceiling.
Our investigator didnt think SAI had done anything wrong. He thought it had fairly 
considered weather reports around the time of Miss As claim and, even though it didnt think 
thered been storm conditions, it arranged an inspection. Our investigator thought SAI 
reasonably relied on expert evidence which said the roof leaked because of wear and tear, 
which wasnt covered under the policy.
Miss A didnt agree. She questioned the use of different weather reports to determine 
whether there had been storm conditions. She also said that the rest of her roof remained 
watertight, so she didnt think there was a maintenance issue.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Miss A will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The key issue here is that Miss A doesnt think SAI acted fairly when it declined her claim for 
damage caused by water ingress following a storm.
When considering this type of complaint, I must look at:
whether there was a storm;
whether the damage is consistent with that typically caused by a storm;
whether the damage was caused wholly or mainly by the storm.
SAI didnt think thered been storm conditions. Miss As policy defines a storm as, violent 
weather like strong winds of 55mph or more, sometimes accompanied by rain; and/or heavy 
snow or hail that causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Weather reports for the period leading up to Miss As claim dont record storm conditions 
meeting SAIs 55mph wind definition. I understand Miss As point about consistency when 
assessing weather conditions, but I dont think thats a key factor here. Thats because SAI 
didnt decline her claim because it didnt think thered been a storm. Although its definition 
refers to wind speed, heavy rainfall can be considered a storm. Ive seen in SAIs records 
that it thought the rainfall was heavy around that time, which prompted it to send someone to 
investigate the damage. So, here, SAI is effectively saying its possible there was a rain 
storm and it investigated the cause of the damage despite the weather reports not meeting 
the policy definition.  I think thats fair.
SAI inspected the cause of the damage to determine whether Miss A was covered under her 
policy. The roofer issued a report with photos showing damage to Miss As roof consistent 
with general wear and tear. Miss A confirmed the roof was 20 years old, but her own roofer 
thought it was in good condition. While I dont doubt her roofers comment about the general 
condition, the report doesnt state that the roof was completely free of damage, nor does it 
say it showed evidence of storm damage. Miss As roofer said the water was leaking through 
the join between the felt and the parapet (where the roof covering joins the brick wall), and 
SAIs roofer recorded the same findings. SAI supplied photos which showed the roof 
covering was coming away from the parapet in places corresponding with the water damage 
inside Miss As home. This is consistent with water leaking through the gaps shown in the 
photos and described by both roofers.
SAI concluded the damage was typical of wear and tear - the roof covering had gradually 
lost its bond with the brickwork - and it declined Miss As claim for that reason. Miss A hasnt 
provided anything to indicate that a storm caused the damage and its reasonable to 
conclude that the heavy rainfall simply highlighted the existing wear and tear. 
Miss A thought SAI shouldve considered her claim under her home emergency cover. While 
Miss A also had a home emergency policy under the same brand, the cover was 
underwritten by a different insurer. Therefore, I cant consider any aspect of a complaint 
about the home emergency cover when deciding Miss As complaint about SAI. 
In summary, Im satisfied that SAI declined Miss As claim fairly in line with the policy, 
supported by both roofing reports.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman