DRN-3140891
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Link Financial Outsourcing Limited, trading as Thesis Servicing 
(Thesis) have handled his student loan accounts. 
What happened
In 1996, 1997 and 1998 Mr A took out student loans. The loans were agreed for Mr A by 
Company SL, and Company SL later sold these loans to Company FH. The management 
and administration of these loans later transferred from Company SL to Thesis. 
The loans were agreed to be repaid over 60 months which would begin from the April 
following the date the borrower stopped attending their course. In Mr As case the payment 
term started in April 1999 and was expected to mature in April 2004.
 
A feature of the lending agreements allowed the borrower, subject to earnings and 
contemporary regulation, to defer their payments. Applications for deferment were required 
every 12 months and a successful deferment of payments extended the loan term by the 
same number of months. 
Mr A successfully deferred his payments until 2011 and so the maturity date of the loans 
became March 2016. Mr A made payments between 2011 and May 2014, after which he 
was unbale to make further payments due to the loss of employment. Mr A therefore applied 
for a further deferment at that time. 
Although Thesis administered the account on behalf of Company FH, the decision to decide 
whether an account could be deferred remained with Company SL. 
Mr As application in 2014 to defer his borrowing was not accepted based on the evidence 
he supplied, so Mr A challenged the decision. Because he couldnt resolve things with 
Thesis, a complaint was raised with this service. 
In June 2015 one of our ombudsmen concluded Thesis had acted reasonably in relation to 
how the deferral application had been handled. And in 2016 a separate complaint against 
Company SL was considered by one of this services investigators who concluded Company 
SL had acted reasonably in relation to Mr As 2014 deferral application. 
Following this a deferral was then arranged until November 2017, and it appears this was 
further extended until November 2019. Mr A had assumed this would be the end of the 
matter, but then complained that Thesis continued to contact him for payment towards 
arrears. 
Thesis said the deferment prevented their collections process from being active and they let 
Mr A know that although he wasnt required to pay anything (due to a deferral being place at 
the time) the account was in arrears and they said it would be advisable for Mr A to propose 
an arrangement to pay. On 25 August 2017, in response, Mr A disagreed his borrowing was 
in arrears and raised a complaint which Thesis did not uphold. 
Mr A brought his concerns to our service and said he didnt believe the contracts had been 
administered correctly as there had been breaches by the lender. He also said hed agreed 
to the lending because the terms had said hed only need to pay if his earnings were over a 
particular threshold; the lending wouldnt affect his credit score and at the age of 50 the 
borrowing would be cancelled. Mr A said he was now being told there were arrears, the 
terms had been breached and because of this it wasnt possible to cancel the loans even 
though he had turned 50 years of age. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint and Mr A strongly disagreed. He said hed 
made every attempt to comply with the lending terms and disputed that any terms had been 
breached. Mr A also said the implications of failing to make payments while he was disputing 
the deferral application were not made clear to him, so it was unfair to equate the arrears 
with a breach of obligations in these circumstances. 
I issued my provisional findings to both parties and explained that having reviewed the 
matter I was not intending to uphold Mr As complaint. I have summarised my provisional 
findings below.
I firstly noted the following: 
Thesis did not own the debt and they were therefore not the lender here. And so my 
considerations were limited to Thesiss actions only in administering these loans. 
The terms of Mr As credit agreements included a section titled, Cancellation of 
Repayments which said, The present regulations provide for (a) cancellation of 
repayments if you die and (b) cancellation of repayments (so long as you are not in 
breach of any obligations to us) if (i) you are aged under forty when you last enter an 
agreement to borrow from us and you attain age fifty or all or part of your last 
borrowing from us has been outstanding for at least twenty five years 
Mr A was under 40 years of age when he entered into the last loan agreement with 
Company SL and turned 50 years old in 2017. But the loans were not cancelled due 
to arrears on the accounts. 
In reply to Mr As concerns raised about the obligations of the lender I highlighted again that 
Thesis are not the lender, so I needed only to consider if Thesis had applied the loan terms 
fairly on behalf of Company FH. 
Mr A had said he had always acted in good faith to ensure he was complying with the terms 
of the lending. I accepted that Mr As previous, successful deferments for several years and 
his later payments supported his statement and intention to meet his responsibilities with 
respect to these loans. But I noted that deferments were not automatically agreed. 
I noted Mr As concerns stemmed mainly from the unsuccessful deferment application in 
2014, and I explained:
 
I was restricted in what I could say about Mr As 2014 deferral application because a 
previous ombudsman had already considered this and I was therefore unable to 
revisit that subject matter. In 2015 the ombudsman decided that Thesis had acted 
reasonably when handling Mr As deferral application in 2014. 
That a separate complaint against company SL about the deferral application in 2014 
had also been previously considered by this service and it had not been upheld by 
our investigator. 
Because the previous ombudsman had already decided that Thesis had not done 
anything wrong in 2014, it followed (for the purposes of my considerations) that the arrears which accrued werent as a result of anything unfair or unreasonable which 
Thesis had done. 
With this in mind, I reviewed the terms of the lending and reached the following conclusion: 
The terms of the agreements wouldnt allow for the cancellation of payments if there 
had been a breach in the borrowers obligations to the lender. And as the arrears 
breached the terms of the agreement, it followed the payments could not be 
cancelled at the age of 50. 
I explained the breach in the terms didnt mean the agreements were no longer valid, 
merely that this particular feature of the agreements could no longer be exercised.  
Because of the above, I didnt think Thesis had acted unfairly when they applied 
these terms and they explained to Mr A that they were unable to cancel or write off 
his outstanding balance. 
Mr A noted that a borrowers obligations werent defined in the lending agreements, but I 
didnt think it unreasonable to say, in the context of a lending agreement, a borrowers 
principle obligation is to make the required payments. 
I noted the agreements explain you will repay the Loan and interest on the Loan by the 
repayments on the dates set out From June 2014 Mr A had made no payments towards 
the outstanding sum owed to the lender. So I thought it fair to say the obligation to make 
payment towards the loans wasnt met.
 
I considered what Mr A had said about Thesis not doing enough to highlight the implications 
of not making payments while he disputed the declined deferral application in 2014. I said:
Thesiss available records did not hold much detail around this. 
But that said, it was difficult to say if the terms had been highlighted to Mr A that this 
would have made any difference given Mr As act of applying for a deferral 
reasonably suggested he didnt have the money to make the payments at that time. 
Later records for November 2017 and February 2018 also suggested Mr A was still 
not in a position to clear arrears then either. 
There was nothing to suggest that a dispute about a deferment application would 
indefinitely suspend payments or the accrual of arrears. 
Mr A expressed concerns about how the loans were sold to him, but I explained as Thesis 
did not sell the agreements to him, it was not possible to include these concerns within the 
scope of my considerations. 
I also considered Mr As submissions that Thesis was pursuing him for outstanding arrears 
since 2016 when an extended deferment was in place. My conclusions were as follows: 
I noted Thesis made several attempts to contact Mr A from 2016 until 2020  either 
by calling him every couple of months, or a couple of times a month and sending him 
letters (although it appeared Mr A may have changed addresses at times). I didnt 
think the level of contact was excessive. 
I noted Mr A didnt answer calls and I couldnt see that Thesis was demanding 
payment or escalating the matter through their formal collections process, which I 
thought was fair in the circumstances. 
Thesis was inviting Mr A to make an arrangement to pay the outstanding balance to 
the lender, which in the circumstances I didnt find unreasonable. I noted that Mr As 
financial situation appeared to still not be comfortable. I noted that as the accounts had matured in March 2016, there were no further 
payments that could be deferred, so the deferment from 2016 was a gesture of 
goodwill and prevented the more formal collections process (and any impact to Mr 
As credit file, which he was made aware of). And I noted that while disappointing for 
Mr A, the outstanding sum (whether viewed as arrears or an unpaid balance) 
remained payable - and that Mr A himself recognised he had benefited from the 
money and didnt dispute these were his loans. 
In the circumstances I thought it reasonable for Thesis to approach Mr A in the way 
they had by inviting Mr A to set up an arrangement to pay. I said Mr A would need to 
engage with the parties involved to decide how to manage the debt. And I expected 
Thesis to act fairly towards Mr A by giving careful consideration to his circumstances 
and considering forbearance, as well as being clear with him on the next steps. 
Lastly, I let Mr A know in response to his submissions around matters of enforceability that it 
is not for this service to decide if a debt is enforceable or not  that is a matter for the courts. 
I invited both parties to provide me with any further submissions they wished to make. Both 
parties responded. 
In summary, Thesis said: 
They accepted the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
They highlighted that at the inception of the loan agreements Mr A wouldve been 
given details of the terms and conditions and he would have signed to confirm his 
acceptance and understanding of them. 
It was Mr As responsibility to secure deferment on an annual basis, if eligible, by 
completing the application form and supplying the requisite evidence for Company 
SLs consideration. 
If deferment isnt secured, then repayment of the loan becomes due in accordance 
with the terms of the agreements and if repayment is not made, then arrears accrue. 
Mr A wasnt eligible for his account to be cancelled as he did not secure the 
deferment and arrears therefore accrued. The lending reached maturity on 28th 
March 2016 which was when the balance of the account was due, and prior to the 
earliest date it couldve been reviewed for cancellation i.e. Mr As 50th birthday. 
In summary, Mr A said: 
He had accepted the loans on certain conditions and these conditions were not 
adhered to, therefore he believes these loans were misrepresented to him and mis-
sold. 
It was unreasonable to assume he wouldnt have acted to ensure compliance with 
the terms if he had been made aware during the dispute about the deferment that to 
not do so could cause a breach in the terms  the loan could have been cancelled in 
three years from that time, so why wouldnt he have done something about it.  
It did not make sense to suggest that as he was not earning he would not have been 
able to act given he would have provided everything possible (as he had done on 
previous occasions) to ensure a successful deferral application. But Thesis was 
asking for evidence that would have caused him to lie and this was something he 
wasnt prepared to do. Mr A believes the suggestion is that he should have lied in 
2014 and this wasnt something he was willing to do. And he said he would therefore 
have acted in exactly the same way if he was in the same position again by choosing 
to jeopardise the deferral, breach the contract and enter a dispute. The provisional findings did not make sense. Mr A said it wasnt possible to say that 
he was under the earnings threshold and couldnt do anything even if hed been 
made aware of the consequences, and at the same time suggest if he was unable to 
prove he was earning below the threshold that he might therefore be earning more 
than the threshold. 
The situation is similar to a form of entrapment as there is nothing to stop lenders 
deliberately inciting a dispute by requesting evidence for deferment applications, and 
therefore causing a breach in the terms and so voiding the cancellation option under 
the agreements. 
He is a responsible borrower who does not over extend himself, yet he is now in a 
position where he will be pursued for a loan through the collections process which he 
cant pay for. Mr A said he had trusted the representative who sold him the loans that 
he wouldnt have to repay them unless he earned over the threshold and the loans 
would be cancelled when he turned 50. Mr A said he had complied with this but 
would go to court if action is initiated against him. 
He was concerned about the delays in reaching this decision and wishes to hold the 
Financial Ombudsman Service accountable for any additional interest that has 
accrued while the case has been considered. 
His situation is that hes not in a strong financial position as he has no house or 
assets nor full-time employment. And he didnt think it was a fair outcome considering 
his efforts to comply with the lending agreements as they had been sold to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr A and Thesis have made reference to how the loans were initially sold, but Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Thesis sold these loans so Im unable to consider anything to do with the 
sales and how these loans were initially presented to Mr A.
 
Thesis also mentioned what is expected for a deferral application and Mr A made reference 
to the 2014 deferral application once more. Again, both parties should note that my decision 
cannot deal with the deferral application Mr A made in 2014 as our service previously 
considered this in 2015. So I have not considered this. 
Mr A has suggested that the provisional decision put forward opposing arguments in relation 
to the application and that he could not be both under the earnings threshold and at the 
same time there be a suggestion that because he could not provide the requisite evidence 
that he must therefore also have been above the earnings threshold. 
To be clear, my considerations did not debate Mr As deferral application in 2014 and so did 
not suggest Mr As earnings were above (or below) the earnings threshold in 2014. My 
considerations were limited to Mr As concerns that he was not made aware of the possibility 
he could be in breach of the terms if he didnt make his payments around that time, and I 
explained there was limited information to suggest what may or may not have been 
discussed then. However, I didnt believe this to make a difference, as due to the fact Mr A 
was looking for a deferment it would seem more likely than not that he was not in a position 
to make any payments at that time anyway  so it would seem more likely than not he would 
still have found himself in arrears.Overall, Ive not seen anything from either party that persuades me to alter my findings from 
those set out in my provisional decision summarised above. That is, I think Thesis have fairly 
applied the terms of Mr As borrowing. And I think it is reasonable for them not to exercise 
the cancellation terms as described above owing to a breach in the terms because of the 
arrears which accrued after June 2014. 
I understand this will be a worry for Mr A given his circumstances have not improved, and I 
expect Thesis to treat Mr A fairly and consider forbearance when assessing his case moving 
forwards. Should Mr A require some support, guidance or advice the Citizens Advice Bureau 
www.citizensadvice.org.uk may be able to help him with any next steps he wishes to take 
regarding these loans. 
Lastly, Ive noted what Mr A has to say more generally about the lenders behaviour, but my 
decision is limited to Mr As case only. And as Ive previously stated, my considerations do 
not include what happened during the deferral application process in 2014. Should Mr A 
wish to report any wider concerns he has he is free to contact the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority www.fca.org.uk. 
Mr A should note that I have passed his concerns about the Financial Ombudsman Service 
on to be dealt with separately. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman