DRN-2203891
The complaint
Mrs A doesnt think Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays Bank) has paid Mr As estate fair 
compensation in response to a complaint about the sale of a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr A, who has sadly passed away, purchased an MPPI policy in September 1999.
Last year, Mr As wife, Mrs A, contacted Barclays Bank to complain that the policy was 
mis-sold. Barclays Bank agreed. It wrote to Mrs A to explain that it would usually refund the 
MPPI premiums Mr A paid with simple interest (at 8% per year). But Barclays Bank doesnt 
know how much Mr A paid, so its paid his estate the average sum of money it pays 
consumers who had the same type of policy for the same length of time.
Mrs A doesnt think this is fair. She thinks Barclays Bank has enough information to work out 
how much Mr A paid for the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclays Bank accepts that the MPPI policy was mis-sold, I dont need to decide whether 
or not it was. All thats left for me to decide is whether its paid Mr As estate fair 
compensation. I dont think it has, and Ill explain why.
Below, Ive set out what we know about the policy and Mr As mortgage:
Barclays Bank has provided a screenshot of its internal records, which shows the 
start and end date of the policy: 30 September 1999 and 17 June 2008 respectively.
Mrs A has provided some of Mr As bank statements, which show his mortgage 
payments were £575 per month.
Barclays Bank says the common cost of this type of policy was £5.95 for every £100 
the consumer would receive if he or she made a successful claim (this is often called 
the monthly benefit).
Mrs A wants Barclays Bank to use this information to work out how much Mr A paid for MPPI 
each month  by assuming he chose to cover his monthly mortgage payments in full  and 
to compensate his estate accordingly.
Barclays Bank says Mr A could have chosen any monthly benefit, so unless Mrs A can 
provide evidence of the MPPI premiums Mr A paid, it wont recalculate its offer.
I accept that Mr A may have chosen a monthly benefit that was less than his monthly 
mortgage payment  but he may have chosen one that was greater (within limits).
Mrs A says shes sure Mr A would have covered his monthly mortgage payments in full. And, 
in my experience, thats what most consumers do. So I think its most likely that Mr A 
covered his monthly mortgage payments in full  and Barclays Bank should recalculate his 
PPI compensation accordingly. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank should assume Mr A covered his monthly mortgage payments in full at a cost 
of £5.95 for every £100  which means he would have paid a premium of £34.21 every 
month. Barclays Bank should use the information it has about the start and end date of the 
policy to work out how many premiums he paid and when, and refund them with simple 
interest (at 8% per year) from the date of each payment until Mr As estate receives the 
refund. It can deduct the value of the average offer, which its already paid Mrs A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr As estate the 
compensation Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A on behalf of 
the estate of Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman