DRN-3317127
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy about how Aviva Equity Release UK Limited applies voluntary partial 
repayments to her lifetime equity release mortgage accounts. 
What happened
In October 2014, after seeking advice from an independent financial adviser, Ms L took out 
an equity release mortgage with Aviva. She had an initial cash advance of £17,000 at a fixed 
rate of 5.76%, with a cash reserve of £11,500 that she could draw down on at any time. In 
January 2015 Ms L made two drawdowns. One for £3,000 and another for £2,000. Both at a 
fixed rate of 6.19%.
The mortgage terms said that after the first year, voluntary partial repayments (VPR) could 
be made each year up to 10% of the total amount owed (initial sum borrowed plus any 
drawdowns), without incurring an early repayment charge. 
Over the years Ms L has been making VPRs to each loan. She says her intention was to 
repay the interest each year so only the capital borrowed remained outstanding. In January 
2021, when trying to make a VPR, Ms L was told that, if a customer has more than one loan, 
the VPR paid would be applied to the most recent loan first.
Ms L was unhappy about this and complained to Aviva. She says Avivas process is 
increasing her indebtedness. She wants to decide how her VPRs are applied across her 
loans. Ms L also complained to Aviva about how the loan was sold. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it notified its customers in 2019 of its change in 
process which allows for VPRs to be applied to the newest drawdown first. Aviva also 
explained that the initial loan was sold through an independent financial advisor. The cash 
reserve funds were agreed as part of the initial application for Ms L to access at any time 
without the need for any further approval. Any information and advice regarding the loan was 
given by the independent financial advisor. Aviva referred Ms Ls complaint about the sale of 
the loan to them.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Ms L brought the complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into this complaint against Aviva. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
thought that in line with its terms, Aviva reserved the right to determine how to apply VPRs to 
the mortgage account and was satisfied it was entitled to do so. Ms Ls complaint about how 
the loan was sold by the independent financial advisor is being considered separately by our 
service.
Ms L didnt agree with the investigators findings on this case and asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equity release mortgages are intended to be long-term products which are meant to run for
the lifetime of the borrower. No monthly repayments are required, because of which the
pricing and structure of this type of loan reflects that Aviva has lent money on which it may
not receive any repayment for a substantial time.
Avivas terms do however allow some flexibility in allowing borrowers to repay part of their 
loan, to a maximum of 10% of the total amount borrowed each year without incurring an 
early repayment charge. The terms make no reference to how VPRs will be applied, so gives 
discretion to Aviva as to how it will apply any payments. Aviva says it will explain how any 
VPRs will be applied ahead of any payments being made. 
I dont have any power to tell Aviva how to run its business or what policies and processes it
should have in place in relation to its administration of its lifetime mortgages. But I am
required to decide if Aviva has treated Ms L fairly and reasonably.
Aviva wrote to its customers in 2019 to explain the changes to the rules around VPRs. Ms L 
says she never received this letter. But, ahead of her making her next VPR, Aviva explained 
over the phone how her payment would be applied. Avivas terms merely permit VPRs to be 
made  they do not specify how Aviva would apply them. So, I dont consider what it has 
done was inconsistent with the terms. 
Aviva has previously told our service its reasons for making these changes. Its overall 
changes to the repayment facility now allows customers to borrow and repay without any of 
the time restrictions that used to apply. To support this change, Aviva changed the way 
loans were repaid to remove the risk of some customers using this additional flexibility to 
lower their overall borrowing costs. By that it means, customers using the VPR flexibility to 
develop a cycle of repaying older drawdowns at a higher rate of interest and then 
withdrawing funds at a lower interest rate, to repay higher interest bearing loans and so forth 
until, in effect re-scheduling their borrowing until it is all on an interest rate which suits them 
better than the ones they originally agreed to at the time of their original drawdowns.
If this were allowed, then Aviva would be at risk of suffering a commercial loss. To offset 
such risk and minimise any losses, Aviva would inevitably have to increase its interest rates 
for all customers. This would penalise customers not intending to make any VPRs. I 
appreciate Mrs Ls circumstances are different. Her initial loan is on a lower rate of interest 
than her subsequent drawdowns. But I dont find it unreasonable for Aviva to apply its 
process consistently as its not fair to treat each customer differently. 
In the circumstances, Aviva has made a legitimate commercial decision which it is entitled to 
make, and Ive seen nothing inherently unfair in Avivas decision to apply VPRs to the 
newest drawdown first.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms L was hoping for. But after careful consideration Im 
unable to find Aviva has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 Arazu Eid
Ombudsman