DRN-3710613
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has refused to 
switch their mortgage from capital repayment to interest-only. They say that, as a result, they 
have decided to re-mortgage and want Halifax to pay the redemption costs on the mortgage, 
as well as all fees incurred in taking out a new mortgage with another lender.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a mortgage with Halifax, originally taken out in 2006. The mortgage was 
for approximately £266,000, of which about £30,000 was on a capital repayment basis and 
the remainder on interest-only for the 20-year term.
In 2017, when they had about ten years left on their mortgage, Mr and Mrs B re-arranged the 
mortgage (at this point, approximately £259,000) onto a new product  a capital repayment 
mortgage over a term of 16 years. The interest rate was fixed until 31 January 2023. If the 
mortgage is repaid before that date, an early repayment charge (ERC) will apply on a 
tapering scale, currently 1.50% of the amount repaid.
In November 2021 Mr and Mrs B wanted to switch the mortgage from capital repayment to 
interest-only. Their reason was to free up funds to allow them to carry out home 
improvements. However, Halifax declined the request, because it didnt meet the banks 
lending criteria. Specifically, there was no repayment vehicle for the mortgage. Halifax 
acknowledged that Mr and Mrs B might have been told in 2017 they could switch their 
mortgage to interest-only, but the banks lending policy had since changed.
Mr and Mrs B complained, saying that, before they switched to capital repayment in 2017, 
Halifax was happy to accept their plan to sell the property as the repayment vehicle. They 
say that, because of this, its not fair for Halifax to now say that they dont have a repayment 
vehicle. Mr and Mrs B also say that they were told in 2017 that they could switch their 
mortgage back to interest-only at any time.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs B referred it to our service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He noted that Halifax had discretion to switch the mortgage to interest-only, but that this was 
only in the short term, if there were financial difficulties.
Mr and Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They have explained that 
the home improvements are no longer something they are embarking on, due to the cost of 
living and a decrease in income, making the mortgage unaffordable. As a result, they need 
the mortgage to be switched back to interest-only. Mr and Mrs B also think its unfair that 
Halifax can amend its lending criteria to suit itself with little regard for its customers.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The capital repayment mortgage taken out in 2017 wasnt simply a product switch to a new 
interest rate; it was a new mortgage product altogether, with a longer term, and on a wholly 
capital repayment basis, rather than (mostly) interest-only.
The available documentation from 2017 shows that Halifax made the recommendation for a 
capital repayment mortgage because, amongst other things: you dont have a repayment 
plan that you want to use to repay all or part of your loan, or those you do have do not meet 
our criteria. I am told that the only repayment plan Mr and Mrs B have ever had for the 
interest-only mortgage was sale of the property. Given this, it seems more likely than not 
from what Halifax said that by 2017 that plan no longer met Halifaxs lending criteria.
Although Mr and Mrs B are adamant that they were told they could switch the mortgage onto 
an interest-only basis at any time, there is nothing in the documentation to suggest this; 
indeed, the fact that it is recorded that Mr and Mrs B didnt have a repayment plan that met 
Halifaxs criteria is persuasive that Halifax would not have accepted sale of the mortgaged 
property as a suitable repayment vehicle in 2017.
Under mortgage regulations, even where a change material to the affordability of the 
mortgage is requested, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the 
lender decides to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to 
decline an application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best 
interests. But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of 
best interests.
A change from capital repayment to interest-only was a material change to the mortgage. 
Halifax was therefore entitled to consider whether or not the change is affordable. The 
change would, of course, have reduced Mr and Mrs Bs monthly repayments. However, 
Halifax was also entitled to look at the repayment vehicle Mr and Mrs B were proposing for 
the mortgage, and whether or not this met the banks lending criteria.
In this regard, Halifax is entitled to set its own lending criteria, and to change those criteria 
from time to time as the bank sees fit, to meet its own commercial requirements, regulatory 
obligations and market forces. 
Halifax has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the application. If the only repayment vehicle is a sale of the 
mortgaged property, Mr and Mrs B have needed a loan-to-value ratio (LTV) of under 50% on 
interest-only (with any balance up to 75% LTV on capital repayment). They would also need 
to have a minimum of £300,000 equity in the property (or minimum equity of £200,000 and 
savings/investments held within the Lloyds Banking Group of a minimum of £100,000). In 
addition, Mr and Mrs B would need to provide evidence of joint income of at least £150,000.
So although Mr and Mrs Bs monthly payments would have gone down (making the 
mortgage more affordable for them), there was no repayment vehicle that met Halifaxs 
lending criteria, and, after looking at online property valuation data for the area where Mr and 
Mrs B live, Im also not persuaded they would have met the LTV criterion either, particularly 
as they say they needed to carry out home improvements.
In all the circumstances, even though the monthly repayments would have been more 
affordable, the lack of a repayment vehicle that met Halifaxs criteria meant that the bank wasnt able to agree to the request, as it was not in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests over the 
long term.
After considering what happened, Im satisfied that Halifax reached its lending decision fairly, 
after taking into account all relevant factors, including (but not limited to) affordability, 
exposure to risk, and Mr and Mrs Bs specific circumstances. Halifax also referred the 
request to its Stakeholders, but wasnt able to change its decision to decline the request. 
Given this, Im satisfied that Halifax hasnt acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs B have now told us that they are likely to be have difficulty paying the mortgage. 
Lenders are allowed to switch customers onto interest-only as a temporary measure for 
short-term financial difficulties. However, it appears Halifax hasnt been asked to do this. If 
Mr and Mrs B are experiencing financial hardship, they should contact Halifax to discuss 
their options. 
However, in their initial complaint to us Mr and Mrs B said that they were already in the 
process of arranging a new mortgage elsewhere. Mr and Mrs B are, of course, free to 
re-mortgage to another lender, if they are able to find one that will offer them an interest-only 
mortgage on terms that suit them. However, if they were to repay their Halifax mortgage 
before 31 January 2023, Mr and Mrs B would have to pay the ERC to Halifax, along with any 
other redemption costs of the mortgage. Because Im not upholding this complaint, there is 
no basis on which I can hold Halifax responsible for these costs, nor any expenses incurred 
in arranging a new mortgage elsewhere.
My final decision
I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman