DRN-3420136
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy that RCI Financial Services Limited trading as Nissan Finance (RCI) 
terminated the hire purchase agreement she had with them. 
Mrs I is being represented in this complaint. However, for ease of reference, Ill only refer to 
Mrs I within my decision.
What happened
On 1 June 2019 Mrs I was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
RCI. She paid a deposit of £900.08, and the agreement was for £26,319.92 over 49 months; 
with 48 monthly rental payments of £426.04, and a final payment of £9,485.81 if Mrs I 
wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
Mrs Is income was affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and RCI agreed a 
payment deferral, also known as a payment holiday, for the payments due from December 
2020 to April 2021. Once this had ended, RCI were unsuccessful in trying to contact Mrs I to 
discuss the deferred payments, and how she wanted to pay them.
RCIs emails, telephone calls, and letters went unanswered. So, in August 2021, they issued 
a default notice to Mrs I. This wasnt responded to, so RCI terminated the agreement. And 
passed the debt for the termination balance to a third-party debt collection agency Ill call D.
Mrs I had moved property, but didnt tell RCI her new address. D traced Mrs I to her new 
address and started proceedings to repossess the car. Mrs I was unhappy with this situation 
and complained to RCI. But they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. So, Mrs I brought 
her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said she thought the correspondence RCI had sent Mrs I about the payment 
deferral made it quite clear that she needed to contact them when the payment deferral 
period ended, to discuss her financial circumstances. But Mrs I didnt do this. So, the 
investigator thought RCI had acted reasonably by terminating the account when they were 
unable to contact Mrs I about this. And she didnt think RCI needed to do anything more.
Mrs I didnt agree with the investigator. She said that shed told the supplying dealership 
about her change of address and that RCI shouldve tried to contact her through the 
dealership which is the front company if they were unable to contact her by other means. 
And she thinks that RCI shouldve tried the same methods as D to trace her new address, 
rather than defaulting the account and terminating the agreement.
Mrs I has also said that her offer to repay the deferred payments was turned down, and she 
was concerned about the effect this would have on her credit file.
Because Mrs I didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs I was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
Mrs I contacted RCI in November 2020 to discuss her financial circumstances. And, as a 
result of this conversation, a three-month payment deferral (the cover the payments for 
December 2020 to February 2021) was agreed. Mrs I contacted RCI again on 1 March 2021, 
as still was unable to start making payments again. So, a further payment deferral was 
agreed to cover the payments for March and April 2021. But Mrs I didnt contact RCI after 
the second deferral period ended, and she didnt make the payment due in May 2021. 
Payments were made from June 2021 onwards, but RCI were unable to contact Mrs I about 
the deferred and missed payments by telephone, email, or letter. Ive seen that, between 21 
April 2021 and 28 July 2021, RCI sent Mrs I ten letters and eight emails asking her to 
contact them. And they attempted to contact her by phone 15 times. RCIs case notes show 
Mrs I answered a call on 18 May 2021 but terminated this once RCI introduced themselves. 
Whats more, an email dated 21 July 2021 explained that if Mrs I didnt contact them to 
discuss her account, RCI may have to issue a default notice and terminate the agreement. 
Mrs I didnt contact them and, on 4 August 2021, they issued a default notice to Mrs I. This 
gave her until 25 August 2021 to contact them about the situation on her account, otherwise 
the agreement would be terminated. 
Mrs I didnt respond to the default notice and the agreement was terminated on 27 August 
2021. While Mrs I has questioned the speed in which RCI terminated the agreement, I dont 
think they did anything wrong. Theyd been unsuccessfully trying to contact Mrs I for four 
months before the termination happened. And, given these circumstances, I dont think RCI 
acted with undue haste.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mrs I signed on 1 June 2019. Under the heading 
consequences of missing payments the agreement says Missing payments could have 
severe consequences. Including our taking legal action against you which may include a 
claim to repossess the goods. And, under the heading repossession the agreement says 
RCI of you do not keep your side of the Agreement but you have paid at least one third of 
the total amount payable under this Agreement, that is £10,278.56 we may not take back the 
goods against your wishes unless we get a court order.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Mrs I was reasonably aware that the car could be 
repossessed by RCI and, if she hadnt paid at least one-third owing under agreement (which 
she hadnt) then RCI wouldnt need a court order. So, Im also satisfied that, under the 
circumstances, RCI acted reasonably by talking action, through D, to repossess the car.Mrs I has said that she didnt receive the default notice, or any of the letters, because shed 
moved address. She had an obligation to keep RCI updated with any material changes in 
her circumstances, which included her contact details. And Ive seen that, on 24 November 
2020, she told RCI about a change to her email address. So, it would be fair to say from this 
that Mrs I was reasonably aware of this obligation.
But, while Mrs I told dealership that shed moved address, didnt tell RCI. The dealership is a 
separate company to RCI, and not a front company as Mrs I has said. So, she had a 
responsibility to advise RCI of new address, and not rely on a third-party to do this. Whats 
more, I havent seen anything to show me that Mrs I asked the dealership to update RCI with 
her new address.
While the letters and default notice may not have been sent to Mrs Is new address, she 
wouldve known from the emails and phone calls that RCI wanted to speak to her. And she 
knew she hadnt arranged to repay the deferred payments or the payment that was missed 
in May 2021. So, Im satisfied that Mrs I wouldve reasonably known about the situation on 
her account.
Whats more, while I dont have the exact date Mrs I moved address, RCIs case notes show 
that they asked for her postcode as part of their security measures on 1 March 2021. So, 
unless Mrs I deliberately told RCI her previous postcode and chose not to tell them of her 
new address, its highly likely that she moved address after this date. And it would be 
reasonable to expect someone moving home to set up mail forwarding or arrange some 
other method for any post to be passed on. So, I also think that its more likely than not that 
Mrs I received at least some of the ten letters RCI sent her. And maybe the default notice as 
well, albeit possibly too late to take any action.
Mrs I has said that, when she finally spoke to RCI about her account, they explained that an 
immediate payment of £1,000 (along with a payment arrangement being put in place) would 
be sufficient to stop any repossession proceeding. But Mrs I couldnt make this payment and 
offered to pay £500 immediately, and £500 at a later date.
Mrs I also said that RCI said theyd consider this offer but didnt come back to her to say if it 
would be acceptable. While I dont doubt this mayve been the case, as RCI didnt come 
back to her, and as she didnt pay the £500, she wouldve reasonably known that her offer 
hadnt been accepted. And, while this doesnt mean that RCI shouldnt have got back to her 
about the offer for formally decline it, it also doesnt mean that RCI should now accept this 
offer and stop any repossession proceedings.
Finally, Mrs I has said this is the third car that shes had from the same manufacturer, and 
shes been a customer of theirs for almost seven years. While this may be the case, it 
doesnt alter the fact that she didnt respond to RCIs requests for her to contact them, and 
she didnt make any arrangements to repay the deferred payments, even though she knew 
these needed to be repaid. And her relationship with the manufacturer doesnt mean that 
RCI didnt act reasonably by terminating the agreement when they did.
Given all of the above, I dont think that RCI did anything wrong, and I wont be asking then 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Is complaint about RCI Financial Services 
Limited trading as Nissan Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman