DRN-2474733
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited unfairly cancelled his 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to Somerset Bridge includes its agents.
What happened
Somerset Bridge sold Mr C a policy. It later asked him to provide some further information. 
Mr C provided some of that information. Somerset Bridge then cancelled the policy. It told 
Mr C he hadnt provided everything it had asked for. Mr C complained. Somerset Bridge 
acknowledged it had made some mistakes. So it waived its fees and paid Mr C £25 
compensation.
Mr C didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our  
investigators looked into it. He didn't think Somerset Bridge had dealt with Mr C fairly; so he 
said it should pay further compensation of £300. Somerset Bridge didn't agree to that sum 
and offered Mr C a further £15 compensation, which Mr C didn't accept. As Somerset Bridge 
didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint its been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it.
Somerset Bridge asked Mr C to provide some information concerning his and his mums 
(who was a named driver on the policy) driving licences. Mr C provided that information and 
Somerset Bridge confirmed he'd successfully validated the policy.
But Somerset Bridge had also wanted other information from Mr C confirming his address. 
And, on the same day it told Mr C it had validated his policy, it also told him hed need to 
contact it to provide further information. Somerset Bridge said that as Mr C didn't provide 
that information it cancelled his policy. It told Mr C on the phone that its decision to cancel 
his policy was its mistake. But its told us that it cancelled the policy appropriately. However, 
I don't think it did.
Somerset Bridge said the policy validation and checks on Mr Cs address were separate 
processes. But I haven't seen evidence that it made that clear to Mr C. And I can understand 
why Somerset Bridges communication would have confused him. It had told him that hed 
provided everything hed needed to and that it had validated his policy. But, in fact that 
wasn't the case and it still needed information from him concerning his address. However, 
I don't think it made that clear to Mr C. And I havent seen any convincing evidence that it 
explained to Mr C that the address checking process was separate from its validation 
activity. So I can entirely understand why Mr C didn't think he needed to provide any further 
information. 
Somerset Bridge has acknowledged that its validation staff didn't tell Mr C that he needed to 
provide other information about his address. And if theyd done so its likely the cancellation 
wouldn't ever have happened. Further, Somerset Bridge has also acknowledged that it didn't 
provide Mr C with the appropriate advice when he rang it to discuss the cancellation. And if it 
had provided the correct advice that might have seen the policy reinstated. I appreciate it 
was the policy underwriter and not Somerset Bridge who had the final decision about 
whether or not the policy would be reinstated, but by Somerset Bridges own admission, it 
didn't do all it could do to help bring that about for Mr C. And I'm satisfied that if it hadn't 
been for Somerset Bridges poor communication the policy wouldn't have been cancelled in 
the first place. It follows that I don't think Somerset Bridge handled the matter reasonably 
and as a result it cancelled Mr Cs policy unfairly. So I've gone on to think about what 
Somerset Bridge needs to do to put things right. 
Somerset Bridge has told us its already waived its fees of around £216, and paid Mr C £25 
compensation. And its since offered a further £15 compensation. It thinks that is reasonable 
to address the impact of its mistakes on Mr C. But I don't agree. As I've said above I think it 
was Somerset Bridges lack of clear communication that led to it cancelling the policy. So it's 
only fair that Mr C shouldnt have to pay any fees connected with that cancellation. Also 
Mr C had only had the benefit of the policy for a fairly short time which ended with it being 
unfairly cancelled. He had very little benefit from Somerset Bridges services and, in fact, 
found himself in a much worse position as a direct result of its poor service. So I don't think it 
would be fair for Somerset Bridge to charge Mr C for that poor service. And, as a result, 
I don't think its decision to waive its fees amounts to compensation, as its the least it could 
do in the circumstances.
Further, I'm aware that as a result of the cancellation the quotes Mr C subsequently received 
for a replacement policy increased significantly. Thats because some insurers won't offer 
policies to people whove had a policy cancelled by an insurer or broker. And other insurers 
will see those people as an increased risk and so charge a higher premium. Mr Cs told us 
that, until Somerset Bridge advised him, some weeks after the cancellation, he wouldn't 
need to declare the policy cancellation when applying for new policies, he couldn't afford to 
insure his car. I understand that was incredibly frustrating and inconvenient for him as he 
had to pay to use other forms of transport in the meantime. Further the gap between Mr C 
buying a policy from Somerset Bridge and him eventually securing a replacement policy was 
around three months. And during that period Mr C wasn't contributing towards increasing his 
no claims discount (NCD). Thats because NCD is only awarded for a full years claim free 
insurance. So, because of the interruption because of Somerset Bridges unfair cancellation, 
that process was delayed. 
Also, Mr Cs told us that he found the unfair cancellation of his policy extremely stressful. 
Hes said that stress made some health conditions he suffers from worse. I accept his 
evidence on that point. So having taken into account the above, I think it's fair and 
reasonable that Somerset Bridge pays Mr C a further £300 compensation. Somerset Bridge 
has said that sum seems high and asked how the investigator arrived at it. But, when 
deciding if compensation is warranted and if so how much, we think about how a business 
errors and omissions have impacted on the individual concerned. we don't have specific 
sums or tariffs we award for certain failures and so don't break-down compensation awards 
into specific sums for certain instances of poor service. So our awards are tailored to the 
individual circumstances of the complaint and the impact of the business errors on the consumer concerned. And in this case, having thought very carefully about everything Mr C 
told us he went through because of the unfair policy cancellation, Im satisfied £300 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Somerset Bridge Insurance 
Services Limited to pay Mr C a further £300 compensation to address his distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman