DRN-2655305
The complaint
Ms E has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) may owe her some of the 
commission and profit share it received from the premiums she paid for payment protection 
insurance (PPI). She took out a policy in or around May 2008 to provide cover for a 
mortgage (account number ending 5131) shed taken out. 
Ms E disagreed with our adjudicators view so the complaint has come to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision only deals with Ms Es complaint about commission. 
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need 
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would still need to be covered by the Consumer Credit 
Act on this date.
On 31st October 2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible for mortgages taken out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage  such as a 
further advance or interest rate switch. Different lenders took different approaches to this. 
As Ms Es mortgage had been regulated from when it started in or around May 2008  that 
is, after April 2008 - it follows that it had already become regulated. So it was no longer 
covered by the Consumer Credit Act. This means the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. 
Therefore, RBS doesnt need to refund any of the commission Ms E paid for the PPI she had 
with her mortgage.
My final decision
It follows that there isnt a commission complaint to uphold and so I dont require RBS to 
take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman