DRN-4479658
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have unreasonably declined to 
refund transactions that she sent to a fraudster as part of a scam. Shed like the money 
refunded.
What happened
In September 2022, Mrs S was contacted via a social media platform by someone posing as
her friend, asking Mrs S to vote for her as a part of a competition. Mrs S said she truly
believed this was her genuine friend as she was communicating in her normal manner and
therefore, she had no reason to suspect anything fraudulent. The conversation changed to a
discussion about investments, and from this, the individual convinced Mrs S to register for
several cryptocurrency wallets, purchase cryptocurrency and then, tricked Mrs S to send it
on to them. Mrs S did this for £6,850.00, made up of four separate transactions, but later
discovered her friends social media account had been hacked, and she had actually been
speaking with a fraudster. Sadly, Mrs S discovered shed lost all of her money.
Mrs S contacted Halifax the day after the payments had been made to see if she could get
her money back. Mrs S explained the contact shed had with the fraudster, and asked the
bank to help her. After numerous telephone calls across a three month period, and a
complaint raised, Halifax declined to refund her. It did, however, offer £100 compensation for
customer service issues.
Unhappy with this Mrs S referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators
looked into what happened but didnt think Halifax was responsible for Mrs S loss. They said 
it wasnt disputed that Mrs S made the transactions herself. The investigator didnt think the
transactions were significantly out of character enough that Halifax shouldve taken steps to
intervene or prevent them. So, they didnt think Halifax should be liable for refunding them.
However, the investigator felt £300 compensation in total, rather than the £100 offered for
the customer service issues was more appropriate in the circumstances.
Halifax agreed with the investigators findings, but Mrs S did not. She said she felt it was
unfair and questioned why the bank didnt pick up on the unusual nature of the transactions
shed made, all on the same day for large amounts. She sent some further evidence of the
communication she had with the fraudster. But this didnt change the investigators mind. As
no agreement could reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 November 2023. This said:
I was very sorry to hear of the difficulties Mrs S has faced since this scam took place. This
cant have been an easy time for her at all. Ive no doubt this experience has been very
upsetting for her. But having reviewed the evidence I cant say that Halifax should be
responsible for refunding her all of the money that shes lost to the fraudster. However, Im
currently minded to require Halifax to refund £2,000 of the money shes lost, plus interest. Ill
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the
terms and conditions of their account. And Ive taken that into consideration when deciding
what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But the matter doesnt end there, Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time. And I consider Halifax should, fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and fraud and 
scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs
S when she authorised the payments to the cryptocurrency wallets, or whether it shouldve
done something more.
Its not in dispute that Mrs S authorised the payments and, as Ive explained above, Halifax
had an obligation to follow her instructions. But I think Halifax should also have been on
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
With this in mind, Ive looked at Mrs Ss bank statements for the months leading up to the
disputed transactions. Having done so, I dont think the payments made as part of the scam
were particularly unusual or out of character given the way Mrs S tended to use her account.
In the months leading up to the disputed transactions, she made a number of faster
payments using her online banking facility which were similar in value. So, while the
payments were made to companies Mrs S hadnt used before, the payments were not
significantly different or unusual such that I think they ought to have been a cause for
concern and prompted Halifax to intervene for the first three transactions of £1,000, £800 or
£1,050.
But for the fourth payment of £4,000, which was made the same day as the other three listed
above, I do find that Halifax shouldve contacted Mrs S to discuss the pattern of the
transactions and her intentions with the £4,000. By the time this transaction was attempted
to be made by Mrs S, shed made credits into her Halifax account from an external account
to then fund the payments to cryptocurrency wallets. I think this pattern was unusual enough
for Halifax to intervene. And, had it done so, I think Halifax wouldve been concerned that
Mrs S was caught up in a scam and warned her of such.
I say this as Ive no reason to believe that Mrs S wouldnt have been honest with Halifax
about her reasons for the £4,000 payment. She genuinely believed that she was speaking
with her friend and investing in cryptocurrency, receiving high returns on her investment. And
by the time the £4,000 payment was being made, believed shed received returns on her
money by around 170%.
If Mrs S had explained all of this to Halifax, including the method in which she was speakingwith the fraudster, which I think wouldve happened had Halifax asked her appropriate
questions about the reason for the intended payment, and the other payments shed made
that day; Halifax, being the experts here, couldve told Mrs S to contact her friend using other
channels, rather than just the social media platform to verify she was in fact speaking with
that person. Also, the returns on the investment were far too good to be true, and Halifax is
aware that this, as well as contact about cryptocurrency investments via social media, have
the hallmarks of a typical scam and couldve warned her as such. Had this happened, Im
satisfied Mrs S wouldve followed Halifax advice and the scam wouldve been uncovered, 
therefore preventing the £4,000 loss.
Should Mrs S bear some responsibility by way of contributory negligence?
In view of this, I think Halifax couldve prevented Mrs S £4,000 loss here. But I also have to
consider whether Mrs S ought to bear any responsibility for the loss she has incurred too.
This is because there is a general principle that consumers must take some responsibility for
their decisions. In this instance, I do think that Mrs S is partly responsible for her loss. And I
am minded to say that it would be fair and reasonable to make a deduction from the £4,000
because of this.
I say this firstly because I do think Mrs S ought to have completed due diligence prior to
sending large sums of money to cryptocurrency platforms on the instructions of someone via
social media. I appreciate that Mrs S genuinely believed she was speaking with her friend, I
dont know if Mrs S had had investment advice before, from a friend or otherwise, but I
wouldve expected her to have completed more diligent research before parting with her
money  or at least recognised that there was a risk in not doing so.
And, I wouldve expected Mrs S to have recognised warnings that she could be dealing with
a fraudster  I see from the chats shes provided to us that she did question the process and
the supposed returns when speaking with the person, such as the very high rate of return
and that she was told to send more funds to upgrade her account to protect her returns and
be able to withdraw them.
I can also see that when attempting to make some of the payments from another bank, they
were blocked as a fraud risk. Whilst no phone call was made from that bank to discuss the
payments with Mrs S, I think the prevention of the transactions shouldve raised another flag,
and she said herself to the fraudster when referring to the cryptocurrency platform, this has
to be a scam, how can they say one thing and then something else. I knew this was too
good to be true. Mrs S says she moved past this as at the time she still believed she was
speaking with her friend and trusted what they said, but I cant ignore the fact that Mrs S
appears to have identified that something was amiss with the situation, but continued
anyway.
The comments above from the chat that Mrs S has provided were made before the £4,000
payment and given all of these red flags, including the fact that another banking provider had
concerns about the payments and identified them as potential fraud, I think it wouldve been
reasonable for Mrs S to have done further independent checks such as looking online or
talking to a trusted person or organisation about the investment scenario that was unfolding.
This is particularly so given the large sums of money she was being asked to send and the
unexplained reasons for them, as well as supposedly needing to change the cryptocurrency
wallet provider a couple of times, which would seem unusual for a legitimate investment.
Unfortunately, Mrs S took what she was being told as reassurance by the fraudster at face
value and proceeded with the £4,000 payment.
So, having taken into account all of the circumstances of this complaint, I think a fair and
reasonable deduction would amount to 50% of the losses that I consider eligible forrefunding (the £4,000). I feel that this deduction takes into account that Halifax ought to have
done more to be satisfied that Mrs S was not at risk of financial harm from fraud, but at the
same time, takes into account Mrs S own actions and the role she played in the success of
the scam.
As well as this, having looked into the service that Halifax provided to Mrs S when it was
looking into her claim of fraud, I think the £300 it has already agreed to pay is a fair and
reasonable amount to cover Mrs S trouble and upset for the way it handled her claim.
My provisional decision
Currently, Im minded to require that Halifax:
Refund 50% of the losses (£2,000) from the payment on 28 September 2022 
onwards; and
Pay 8% simple interest from the date of the loss until the date of settlement.
If it has not already done so, pay Mrs S £300 (in total) compensation. 
Both Mrs S and Halifax responded to my provisional decision.
Halifax explained it had only considered the first three payments within its fraud investigation 
and complaint response, and therefore would like the opportunity to address the £4,000 
payment separately. I accept Halifax, for whatever reason, didnt consider the £4,000 
payment at the time of the fraud report, but I find it has had enough time since then to do so. 
This is since Mrs S approached our service with her complaint, and also because in 
September, I asked Halifax for its comments on the £4,000 payment and it responded with 
its reasons why it didnt believe it should refund this amount. It said the payment was made 
willingly by Mrs S, to a legitimate cryptocurrency wallet, and if it had tried to reclaim the 
money via a chargeback, this wouldnt have been successful. So Halifax has already had a 
chance to comment on the £4,000 payment and Ive considered these comments when 
reaching my final decision.  
Mrs S provided a detailed response setting out the difficulties shes faced since the scam 
took place, and the impact it has had on her life. I wont comment on everything shes said, 
but I really sympathise with the situation Mrs S has found herself in and I thank her for her 
response. Mrs S made many comments about the way Halifax fraud investigation impacted 
her, the time it took to give her an answer, including chasing the bank numerous times 
herself for an update, and how she was so taken in by the scammer that she really had no 
reason to believe she was speaking with anyone other than her friend who she was very 
close with. She said any comment she made about the situation being a scam was in 
relation to her ability to withdraw her funds from the cryptocurrency wallet, rather than the 
overall conversation with her friend. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im in agreement with Mrs S that Halifax couldve handled her fraud report better. It couldve 
kept her better informed which wouldve avoided the need for her to chase it a number of 
times, and it couldve taken action sooner too. I note Mrs S wasnt informed that once a 
payment has been authorised and pending it cannot be stopped, and I agree that overall, Halifax handling of the situation caused Mrs S trouble and upset at a time when she was 
already processing the fact shed been the victim of fraud.
 
But, having considered all of the available evidence in relation to the way Halifax handled 
Mrs S fraud claim, I still find that £300 is appropriate compensation. So I wont be asking 
Halifax to increase this further. 
In relation to the £4,000 payment, Mrs S accepts that some questioning from Halifax 
couldve prevented the payment from being made. I maintain my position that Halifax 
shouldve been alerted to the pattern of transactions that day and intervened at the £4,000 
payment as Ive previously explained. Regardless of the payment being made willingly to a 
genuine cryptocurrency wallet, or whether or not a chargeback wouldve been successful, if 
Halifax had intervened at that point, I find, on balance, that the £4,000 loss wouldve been 
prevented as the payment wouldnt have been made. Therefore, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I find that considerations around chargebacks or the way the payment was 
authorised are irrelevant.  
But, even though I accept that Mrs S genuinely believed she was speaking with a close 
friend, I still find that many red flags shouldve raised alarm bells for her and caused her to 
question the situation that was unfolding. So because of this, for the reasons Ive explained 
previously, I maintain my position set out in my provisional decision, and find that a 50% 
deduction of the £4,000 is a reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to fairly resolve this complaint, Halifax should:
Refund 50% of the losses (£2,000) from the payment on 28 September 2022 
onwards; and
Pay 8% simple interest from the date of the loss until the date of settlement.
If it has not already done so, pay Mrs S £300 (in total) compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023. 
Lorna Wall
Ombudsman