DRN-4159529
The complaint
Mr E says when he took out his personal pension it didnt provide for a Market Value 
Reduction (MVR) when he took his benefits. So, he says The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited (Prudential) is acting improperly by seeking to apply one to his plan.
What happened
Mr E took out a personal pension with Scottish Amicable in 1988. Prudential has since 
become the provider of this plan. His fund is invested through a With-Profits investment 
scheme.
Mr Es scheme retirement date (SRD) was 10 September 2022, his sixty-fifth birthday. 
However, he decided not to take his pension at that point because he was still working. His 
intention was to take his benefits this year.
However, on reviewing a pension illustration provided by Prudential he noticed it had applied 
an MVR. He challenged this because he says hed never been made aware of, nor agreed 
to, the possibility of such an adjustment. Mr E complained to Prudential.
Prudential responded to Mr E on 14 November 2022. Firstly it acknowledged that it hadnt 
handled his enquiries effectively and it offered him £50 in recognition of this. But it didnt 
accept his point about the MVR. It said:
I understand you are unhappy as you believe you did not opt into having an MVR (Market 
Value Reduction) with your policy. However I have identified when you set up your policy this 
would have been explained to you and would be in your terms and conditions. As you are 
invested within our with profits pension fund then an MVR does apply. MVRs are our way of 
protecting the interests of all of our With-Profits customers. MVRs ensure that every investor 
gets a fair return based on the earnings of the With-Profits Fund over the period their 
payments have been invested. We believe that MVRs should be used to balance the 
interests of continuing investors with those who want to cash-in their investment. Its not our 
practice to apply MVRs which reduce values below an amount fairly reflecting the value of 
the assets underlying the plan. We believe our approach is fair and in the interests of all our 
continuing With-Profits customers...
Mr E didnt accept what Prudential had said and he brought his case to this Service. He said:
I was not aware of such a reduction and asked them to prove it and when I had signed up 
agreeing to such an unpleasant surprise / reduction, I felt like I was being conned - over £3k! 
The Pru's final response letter dated 14. Nov 2022 says they have provided me with this 
information which is not correctConsequently, I would like to receive the full pension I am 
due from the Pru in about 9 months' time and wish to sort this out once & for all before I take 
it The Pru has upheld my complaint and tried to pay me off with £50.00 which I have not 
agreed to as resolving this issue. I need to see a legal document signed by me agreeing to 
MVR - have not got one and the Pru has not sent me one, therefore it will not be applicable 
when I take my Pension
An Investigator considered Mr Es case but didnt uphold it. He thought Prudential had 
provided him with sufficient information to make him aware that if he didnt take his pension 
on his SRD it was possible that an MVR would apply. He also found that it was able to apply 
such a reduction. 
Mr E was unhappy with the Investigators findings and conclusions. He considered 
Prudentials actions as amounting to fraud. And he didnt think the outcome of his complaint 
was fair.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Es 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Prudential for Mr E. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it 
says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Es complaint.
Firstly, Id observe with-profits funds have attracted criticism for a lack of transparency. I 
understand Mr Es suspicions about the imposition of an MVR. It can be difficult for 
policyholders to satisfy themselves they are receiving what they are entitled to under the 
terms of their plan. But that doesnt necessarily mean a firm has got something wrong.
Prudential is accountable to the industry regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) for the 
way in which it operates its with-profits fund. The regulator monitors this. Firms are required 
to appoint a with-profits actuary and the FCA provides rules and guidance on their duties. Prudential also has an independent With-Profits Committee whose remit is to protect the 
interests of the with-profits policyholders and ensure that they are treated fairly.
Mr E provided copies of various documents in support of his case. One of these contains the 
terms and conditions of his personal pension plan at inception. I would draw his attention to 
section R.2.6 about with profits funds. It says:
The Bid and Offer Prices shall be subject to the following  
(i) The Offer Price shall not fall 
(ii) The Bid Price applicable in the event of survival of the Investor to the Selected 
Retirement Date or on his previous death shall be not less than 95% of the Offer 
Price, rounded to the next lower 0.1 p. 
(iii) Subject to the above, the Offer and Bid Prices of units shall be determined by the 
Actuary having regard to prevailing financial conditions.
An MVR isnt mentioned. I dont find this surprising because when Mr Es policy was sold the 
term MVR or MVA (market value adjustment) wasnt commonly used. Its now widely 
understood to represent an adjustment made where the current value of a plan is considered 
to be greater than the plan's fair share of the underlying investments.
The exact wording of a policy will differ from provider to provider. Some may have made the 
possibility of MVR (which as mentioned wouldnt have been referred to as such at the time) 
and when it might apply clearer. But I think it was commonplace within the industry to include 
some provision to allow with-profits fund values to be adjusted to better reflect the current 
market value of the underlying assets. 
I think the reference, in sub clause (iii) above, to the actuary determining prices, having 
regard to prevailing financial conditions, gave Scottish Amicable and its successor, 
Prudential, the power to adjust offer and bid prices of units on advice from its actuaries. That 
covers imposing an MVR.
Firms like Prudential will take into account many factors in deciding whether or not to apply 
an MVR and at what level. It will take into account actual and known factors affecting the 
with-profits funds. But it will also make assumptions about a variety of factors, including 
future economic conditions and expected fund performance, expenses and liabilities as well 
as other variables, for example, mortality rates.
Where a commercial decision has been made by a business, relating to policyholders 
generally, this goes much wider than an individual complaint and concerns the way the 
business operates. Matters of this nature may be reported to the FCA. We wouldnt normally 
interfere with the legitimate exercise of a business commercial judgment. I think any 
decision to impose an MVR and if so how much is a commercial decision for the business 
and its actuaries.
Further, Id observe that Prudentials decision making around applying MVRs to many of its 
customers pension plans in previous years will have been to Mr Es advantage. Had it not 
done so, presumably there would have been less assets in his fund available for distribution 
at this point from which he will draw his share.
Mr E says he wasnt aware an MVR would apply to his policy. I cant see Prudential sent him 
a specific notification of such. So I understand the point he makes. But in reviewing the 
annual pension statements it sent him, I can see there was information about the 
circumstances when an MVR may apply to his plan. For example, in his annual statement for 2016 (dated 21 July 2016), Prudential said if he 
withdrew his fund:
any time except on death or your chosen pension date, the amount paid out may be 
reduced to reflect the current market value of underlying assets. This is known as Market 
Value Reduction (MVR).
This is repeated in Mr Es annual statements for 2017 (dated 20 July 2017), 2018 (dated 26 
July 2018) and 2019 (dated 25 July 2019). 
Within the annual statements, reference was made to further information available about 
MVRs on Prudentials website. This included an MVR leaflet and a Principles and Practices 
of Financial Management (PPFM) document which explained an MVR may apply if a fund 
wasnt withdrawn on the retirement date.
In the lead up to Mr Es SRD, Prudential provided him with a Retirement Options Pack 
(dated 18 March 2022) which advised an MVR may be applied (bolding is my emphasis):
Market Value Reduction: An MVR is an amount we might deduct from certain withdrawals 
you take, or certain switches you make, from the With-Profits Fund. It's our way of being fair 
to all of our with-profits customers. MVRs help make sure that everyone gets a return based 
on the earnings of the With-Profits Fund over the time their payments have been invested in 
it. An MVR would not apply if you take benefits at your selected retirement date or due 
to any payments as a result of your death. MVRs can change from day to day.
We haven't applied an MVR when calculating this value.
See the 'MVR - A clear explanation' leaflet for more information.
Similar messages were included in the Time to decide letter Prudential sent Mr E on 4 July 
2022 and his annual statement for 2022 (dated 26 July 2022).
A policyholder has some responsibility to read the correspondence sent to them by a 
pension provider and if necessary seek clarification or advice if they dont understand whats 
been provided.
I think Prudential is able to apply an MVR to Mr Es personal pension benefits in the 
circumstances he finds himself. I think it can do so fairly, consistent with the terms and 
conditions of his original policy. Further, I think Prudential has made him aware for several 
years about the potential for such a reduction and the circumstances in which one might 
apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman