DRN-3052279
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined to reimburse them 
for some work they had carried out to their roof. 
The policy was provided through a current account that Mr and Mrs F hold jointly. 
Any reference this decision makes to IPA also includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F reported a leak in their roof. They contacted IPA who sent someone round to 
look into what had happened. 
The engineer thought that the leak was due to solar panels having been disconnected from 
the roof, and they reported that foam had been used on the roof to repair it at some stage. 
The engineer didnt make any further repairs to the roof, because they didnt think that the 
damage had been caused by something that Mr and Mrs F were covered for under the 
policy. And the engineer didnt think that any repairs it did would last for 28 days.
An agent of IPA contacted Mr and Mrs F to let them know that the repairs to the roof werent 
covered under the policy and explained the reason why. Mr and Mrs F werent happy with 
this  they said the engineer hadnt even checked the roof, so how could they have known 
what the cause of damage was. 
Because Mr and Mrs F werent happy with the findings of the engineer, the agent said that 
they could find their own repairer to have a look and give a second opinion. The agent said 
that they would cover the cost of the call out, and any temporary repairs that needed doing. 
The agent also sent Mr and Mrs F a reimbursement form to complete and return after they 
had instructed their own repairer.
Mr and Mrs F submitted their reimbursement form and requested that IPA reimburse them 
£1,100 for the repairs that were carried out to the roof. IPA declined to reimburse Mr and Mrs 
F. It said that the work carried out consisted of permanent repairs, and their policy only 
covers them for temporary repairs. 
Mr and Mrs F said that when they spoke to the agent, they were told to carry out the repairs 
and they would be covered. But IPA say that during the call, Mr and Mrs F were told to 
contact IPA to check to see if the repairs would be covered. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs F but he didnt uphold their complaint. He 
said hed seen evidence which suggested that the damage to Mr and Mrs Fs roof was as a 
result of something that wasnt covered under the policy. And so he didnt think that IPA had 
done anything wrong when it declined the claim. He also said that the policy doesnt cover 
any costs that werent previously agreed with IPA, and so he didnt think IPA had been unfair 
in declining to reimburse Mr and Mrs F for the cost of the repair work theyd had carried out. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree. They said that the investigators view had inconsistencies in it and 
didnt rely on robust evidence  however they havent provided any further information about 
why they think this.
Because Mr and Mrs F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I 
appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment to them, but I have explained my 
reasons behind this decision below.
When IPAs engineer went out to Mr and Mrs Fs property to check the cause of the damage, 
they found that the damage was more likely caused by the solar panel disconnecting  and 
repair work had previously been carried out using expanding foam. 
The policy says that it Does not cover every situation which you might regard as an 
emergency and we will not be able to provide the emergency service unless the 
emergency has been caused by one of the specified perils.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions, and it says that repairs to the roof would be 
covered where the cause of damage was as a result of bad weather conditions or falling 
trees/branches. So, in order for Mr and Mrs F to be covered for repair work to the roof, the 
damage would need to have been caused by adverse weather or a falling tree/branch. 
Mr and Mrs F say that the damage could have been caused by a storm, but the engineer IPA 
sent didnt even check the roof, so he couldnt have known what caused the damage. Ive 
thought about this point carefully, but this doesnt change my opinion. I say this because Ive 
seen pictures that the engineer took when he inspected the loft. I can see that there are rips 
in the felting and expanding foam has been used to repair what I presume is a hole. I 
understand Mr and Mrs F dispute that any repair work has been carried out the roof 
previously. But given what Ive seen in the pictures  I dont think this is likely to be the case. 
When IPA found that Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the engineer, it said they could get a 
second opinion from their own repairer. And IPA would cover the cost of them doing so. 
Given the circumstances, I think this was a fair thing for IPA to offer. The purpose of this was 
for Mr and Mrs F to get a second opinion on the likely cause of the damage, to see if it is 
something that would have been covered under the policy. But that repairer didnt provide 
IPA or Mr and Mrs F with any information about what the likely cause of damage was. And 
so theres nothing available, from a professional point of view, that would dispute the findings 
of IPAs engineer.
 
The policy also doesnt cover repairs for any work that had been carried out previously by 
someone who hadnt been authorised by IPA. So, based on everything Ive said above, and 
taking into account the policy terms and conditions, I dont find that IPA acted unfairly when it 
didnt carry out the repair work to the roof. 
I now need to think about whether it was fair of IPA to decline to reimburse Mr and Mrs F for 
the repair work that was carried out. Ive listened to the call that Mrs F had with an agent of 
IPA. During the call, the agent offered for Mr and Mrs F to get a second opinion  and that 
they would pay for this. But that agent also explained that Mr and Mrs F would need to get back in touch with IPA to see if the cost of the repair work would be covered under the 
policy. Mr and Mrs F didnt contact IPA to check that the repair work would be covered. And 
they just submitted a claim form to IPA after they had already had the work done. For the 
reasons Ive already stated above, I dont think the damage caused to Mr and Mrs Fs roof 
was as a result of one of the insured perils, so I dont think they were covered for any repair 
work. But I also dont think, based on the call Ive listened to, that Mr and Mrs F were told to 
go ahead with the work. They were asked to contact IPA again to check that work would be 
covered. 
The policy documents also say, Please remember to call the Home Emergency Cover 
Helpline first. Please do not go ahead and make your own arrangements as we cannot 
reimburse costs incurred without our prior agreement.
Based on this, I dont think that IPA have been unfair in not reimbursing Mr and Mrs F for the 
money they spent getting their roof repaired.
IPA has however agreed to reimburse Mr and Mrs F £150, for what it has estimated to be 
the cost of call out by their chosen repairer. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman