DRN-3468634
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to her under a Personal 
Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement with FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as Motonovo 
Finance).
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs O took out a PCP agreement with Motonovo for a car. The car was just 
over three and a half years old and had travelled approximately 67,286 miles. The cash price 
was £10,598.
On 1 February 2020 the car broke down after the gearbox failed. The dealer carried out a 
repair at no cost to Mrs O, replacing the gearbox with a reconditioned unit and returning the 
car to her on 3 March 2020. 
On 10 September 2021 the car again had to be recovered to Mrs Os local garage, who told 
her the gearbox had failed. Mrs O says she contacted Motonovo, who advised her that shed 
need to provide a specialist report to show the current issue was related to the previous 
repair.  
On 22 September 2021 Mrs O made a formal complaint to Motonovo. She emailed them 
again on 28 September 2021, saying a specialist had quoted £1,100 + VAT to repair the 
gearbox. She asked Motonovo to advise her of the next steps. 
Mrs O authorised the garage to go ahead with the repair. She later received a letter from 
Motonovo, acknowledging her complaint and telling her not to authorise any diagnostic or 
repair work. She says she didnt receive this until 4 October 2021.
Mrs O collected her car on 9 October 2021. She paid £1,835.18 for the repair, which 
resolved the problem. But the following week Motonovo got in touch to say her complaint 
wouldnt be upheld. They said shed denied them the opportunity of investigating the 
problem by having the gearbox repaired. Unhappy with this response, Mrs O brought her 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt think Motonovo had treated Mrs O fairly. He noted there was no 
dispute that the gearbox was faulty in February 2020  and the dealer had accepted liability 
for this. He didnt consider the car to be of satisfactory quality or reasonably durable at the 
time it was supplied to Mrs O. And he wasnt persuaded that the dealers repair had 
remedied the problem.
The investigator said Mrs O would have the right to reject the car. But as shed had the fault 
put right, he felt it would be fairer for Motonovo to cover the cost of that work, plus interest at 
8%. As Mrs O had been without a car for 22 days, he thought she should also have a refund 
of the payment shed made to Motonovo for that period.
Motonovo asked for an ombudsman to review the case. They said Mrs O had been advised 
not to complete repairs in an email sent to her on 29 September 2021. They stressed that 
gearbox failure can be caused by lots of different factors, providing examples of some of the 
common causes. They said there was a lack of evidence as to the cause of the failure in this 
case. And that, as Mrs O hadnt allowed them an opportunity to arrange an independent 
inspection, all evidence had been lost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O complains about a car supplied under a PCP agreement. Entering into consumer 
credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs 
Os complaint against Motonovo.
Motonovo have pointed out Mrs O made an earlier complaint about the gearbox, to which 
they issued a final response in March 2020. I wont make any finding or award from this 
period as this would be the subject of the earlier complaint. But, in order to make a finding on 
the new complaint, I do need to consider the overall history of the car and what happened 
here.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  in this case Motonovo  has a 
responsibility to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account any relevant factors. 
I consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, and mileage. 
The cash price of the car was £10,598. It was less than four years old and had 67,286 on the 
odometer. I dont think a reasonable person would expect this car to be in as good condition 
as a newer car with a lower mileage. But I do still think theyd expect it to be in reasonable 
condition - and would expect trouble free motoring for a reasonable period.
It isnt in dispute here that the car had issues with the gearbox around February 2020 and it 
seems all parties accept these were present or developing at the point of supply. I say this 
as the gearbox was replaced without cost to Mrs O, and Motonovo have confirmed their final 
response upheld the complaint in relation to this issue. So, what I need to consider is 
whether the later issues with the gearbox were linked to the earlier ones - or to the earlier 
repair. 
Mrs O has told us that she wasnt able to use the car that much in 2020 due to COVID 
restrictions in force at the time. Shes provided a copy of the report she got from her 
breakdown service the second time the gearbox failed. This shows that, on 13 September 
2021, the odometer reading was 88,314. It follows that Mrs O had travelled less than 13,000 
miles in the 14 months since the dealer fitted the reconditioned gearbox. She feels the 
gearbox failed because the dealers repair wasnt adequate. 
Motonovo say gearbox failure can be caused by a number of different factors, the most 
common being crunching of the gears, failure to activate the clutch properly, hard driving, 
bearing failure, input/output shaft failure, lack of oil, oil of incorrect type and grade, and 
synchromesh failure. Ive given careful thought to the point theyve made here. 
Where the evidence isnt conclusive, or the parties disagree about what it shows, I have to 
consider whats most likely to have happened. Ive reviewed the information Mrs O obtained 
from the gearbox specialist, dated 26 September 2021. This said:Box was full of oil. No signs of level being too low
So I consider it unlikely that the second gearbox failure was due to insufficient oil, and I 
havent seen anything to suggest the incorrect type of oil was used. 
It also said:
All shafts appear to be re-usable
The housing shows no signs of cracks
Bearings were all intact
6th gear had suffered broken teeth is several places with lose fragments causing 
further damage to other gears
The repair that specialist carried out resolved the problem. So Im satisfied their diagnosis 
was likely to be correct.
Ive carefully thought about what happened here. After the gearbox was replaced, Ms Os 
car lasted around 14 months and under 13,000 miles before the gearbox failed again and 
required a major repair. I think its fair that Mrs O couldve expected the repairs to have 
lasted a reasonable amount of time, given all parties seem to accept the original issue was 
present or developing at the point of supply.
I appreciate there is something of a lack of evidence here. But, on balance, I dont think this 
repair lasted as long as Mrs O couldve expected. It follows I dont think the car, and 
gearbox, were reasonably durable. And, it also follows Im satisfied this means the car 
supplied to Mrs O was not of satisfactory quality.
Motonovo have highlighted the fact that driving style can cause gearbox failure. But Ive 
seen nothing in the evidence that leads me to think that was the case here. So, this doesnt 
change my opinion.
Motonovo dont think Mrs Os complaint should be upheld, because she denied them the 
opportunity to investigate whether they were liable for this second gearbox failure. Ive 
considered if I think Mrs O acted reasonably here.
Both parties agree that Motonovo wrote to Mrs O on 29 September 2021, acknowledging her 
complaint and advising her not to go ahead with any diagnostic or repair work. But Mrs O 
says she didnt receive this until 4 October 2021  after shed authorised the repair. 
The evidence Ive seen shows Mrs O made Motonovo aware of the second gearbox issue on 
10 September 2021. I note they responded the same day, saying shed almost certainly 
need to provide an independent inspection report to prove the current issue was related to 
the previous repair. So Im satisfied that Mrs O acted in good faith when she instructed a 
gearbox specialist to diagnose the fault.
 
Ive then seen evidence showing Mrs O asked Motonovo for advice as to the next steps 
when she raised the formal complaint on 22 September 2021 - and again when she chased 
them for a response on 28 September 2021. 
Ive taken into account the fact that, by the time Mrs O authorised the repairs, shed been 
without a car for around three weeks. And although her breakdown company gave her a car 
for seven days, after this she didnt have one. Mrs O has told us she used the car both for 
work and for transporting her children. So, I can understand why she wanted to get the car 
repaired as quickly as possible. And, I think Motonovo had the opportunity to ask her not to do so if it thought this was important, which it initially didnt. Thinking about things in the 
round, I dont think Mrs O acted unreasonably when she authorised the repairs. So, this also 
doesnt change my opinion.
Putting things right
The problem has now been put right. Mrs O has provided a copy of the invoice for this work. 
Discounting work to the clutch that was carried out at the same time, Ive seen that the repair 
to the gearbox cost £1,835.18. Im satisfied Mrs O had a right to repair under the CRA. So, I 
think it would be fair for Motonovo to reimburse Mrs O this amount.
 
I note that Mrs O had to pay for the repair when she collected the car on 9 October 2021. So 
I think she should also receive 8% simple interest on the amount, calculated from that date.
Mrs O has told us that being without a car increased the amount of time and inconvenience it 
took her to get to work and collect her children from school. She says she had a courtesy car 
for the first seven days, free of charge. So I can see that she was without a car for just over 
three weeks while the fault was diagnosed and repaired. I think she should receive a refund 
of the payments shes made under the hire purchase agreement during that period.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I uphold this complaint and direct FirstRand Bank 
Limited to:
Pay Mrs O £1,835.18 for the gearbox repair she paid for on 9 October 2021*;
Refund the amount Mrs O has paid under the agreement for the period between 17 
September 2021 and 9 October 2021*.
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added, calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. If Motonovo considers that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, they should tell Mrs O how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs O a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman