DRN-4028255
The complaint
Mr F complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) provided him with a poor level of 
service and unfairly decided to close his savings account.
What happened
Around April last year, following a complaint, Mr F spoke with one of YBS call handlers over 
the phone. Shortly after the call, YBS deemed some of the comments Mr F made during the 
call as inappropriate and said this was perceived as discriminatory. As a result, YBS decided 
to give Mr F notice that it would be closing his account. 
YBS also addressed other concerns Mr F had raised and apologised for any errors it had 
made. YBS paid him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Remaining unhappy, Mr F escalated his complaint to this service. He feels victimised by 
YBS action and wants it to compensate him for losses he says he incurred because of the 
account closure. Our investigator decided that YBS had acted fairly. Mr F didnt agree and 
asked for a final decision  so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the opinion that YBS has acted fairly and Ill explain why.
YBS terms explain that it can close Mr Fs account outside of the standard notice period 
(two months), including immediately, if the relationship between YBS and Mr F irretrievably 
breaks down  the terms refer to abusive or threatening behaviour towards YBS staff as an 
example. Mr F wouldve agreed to these terms when opening his account.
YBS says that Mr Fs comments over the phone amounted to discriminatory behaviour and 
that he made personal disparaging comments against the call handler he spoke with. Ive 
listened to the relevant call. I wont set out exactly what was said here, but Im satisfied that 
YBS interpretation of Mr Fs comments is fair. 
Its not for me to say how YBS delivers its savings services, nor can I interfere with its 
procedures. This includes its policy on inappropriate or unacceptable behaviour and how it 
decides when to stop providing savings facilities to its customers. YBS obligations are to act 
in line with regulatory requirements, as set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My 
role is to decide whether I think YBS acted fairly in the application of its terms.
In my opinion, YBS acted reasonably when it decided to close Mr Fs account. Having 
listened to the relevant call, I think the comments Mr F made during the call were fairly 
identified by YBS as discriminatory. Im also satisfied that what Mr F said demonstrates that 
the relationship between him and YBS had irretrievably broken down  in line with YBS 
terms. So I think it was appropriate for YBS to issue notice to close Mr Fs account.
Under the terms, YBS couldve closed Mr Fs account immediately. But I can see it gave him 
60 days to make alternative arrangements, even though it didnt need to. I think this was 
reasonable in the circumstances, as it allowed Mr F to take some time to explore other 
savings options and decide what was suitable for him.
Mr F also raised concerns about the overall service hes received from YBS. This includes:
Misinformation he says he received in branch
A wrongly addressed letter and instances where correspondence YBS sent wasnt 
received
Concerns about signatures on letters sent to him by YBS
Based on what Ive seen, it seems to me that YBS has responded appropriately to these 
concerns  apologising for any errors it made where relevant. YBS also paid Mr F £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. I think this is a fair way to settle 
this part of Mr Fs complaint. This amount is also within the region of what I may have 
awarded, had YBS not compensated him at all.
To conclude, YBS fairly labelled Mr Fs comments as inappropriate and discriminatory. And, 
as a result, I think it was reasonable for YBS to close Mr Fs account in line with its terms. In 
my view, YBS has also fairly compensated Mr F for the inconvenience it caused because of 
its errors. So I wont be asking YBS to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman