DRN-4317473
The complaint
Mrs D and Mrs M complain that Euroins AD didnt allow them to amend their travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs D and Mrs M took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 28 March 2022 to cover a 
trip between 2 and 9 September 2022. The policy was underwritten by Euroins AD. Any 
reference to Euroins includes the actions of its agents.
Mrs D and Mrs Ms flights were changed by the travel operator to depart from another city, 
which they werent happy with. So, Mrs D and Mrs M rearranged their holiday to take place 
between 13 and 20 September 2022 instead so that they could travel from their original point 
of departure.
Mrs M was diagnosed with a heart condition and she was referred for some tests. These 
were due to take place on 8 September 2022. Mrs D and Mrs M got in touch with Euroins 
around 5 August 2022 to let it know of the change in their holiday dates, as well as the new 
condition Mrs M had and the appointment shed booked.
Mrs D and Mrs M say that Euroins said it wouldnt provide cover for the new condition as 
Mrs M was waiting for tests. But otherwise, it would continue to provide cover as long as 
Mrs D and Mrs M travelled within the original dates. But as the holiday dates had already 
been changed, Mrs D and Mrs M werent happy with this.
Mrs M says she then asked to be taken off the policy and for Mrs D to remain as the only 
one insured for the new holiday dates. But she says Euroins didnt allow this change either. 
Mrs D and Mrs M then tried to cancel their policy, but as they were outside the 14 day 
cooling off period, they say Euroins refused a refund on the policy.
In the end, Mrs D and Mrs M both took out new policies with other insurers to cover the 
holiday. But they werent happy that they had to do so. So, they brought a complaint to our 
service after not receiving a response from Euroins.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said that she hadnt seen any 
underwriting evidence to support that it was reasonable for Euroins to decline to amend the 
travel dates on Mrs D and Mrs Ms policy, or that it couldnt provide cover for the new 
medical condition, even with an additional premium. Without this evidence, our investigator 
thought it would be fair and reasonable for Euroins to refund the premium Mrs D and Mrs M 
paid plus 8% simple interest from the date of the request to amend the policy until date of 
settlement. She also thought Euroins should pay Mrs D and Mrs M £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Euroins says that a policyholder will be ineligible for cover if they are awaiting the outcome of 
investigations. It says that the terms and conditions relating to health conditions are under a 
heading Important Health Requirements For All Insured Persons. It says this would apply 
at the inception of cover, or as in this case, if a mid-term adjustment is required.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. There had been 
some confusion as to who was responsible for this complaint. Euroins confirmed it was the 
underwriter of the policy, and that the policy administrator who had corresponded with us 
about this complaint was authorised to handle complaints on its behalf. But due to the 
confusion, I issued a provisional decision in August 2023 to give both parties one more 
chance to provide any information or evidence they wanted me to consider before I issued 
my final decision. Heres what I said in that decision:
Euroins has referred to the Important Health Requirements For All Insured Persons 
section on the policy. But this doesnt say that no cover is provided if a policyholder is 
undergoing tests, or that no changes in travel dates are accepted. This simply says, 
amongst other things, that if a policyholder is awaiting any tests, then they must call 
[Euroins] specialist team on [] to proceed with [the] quote. 
This section lists situations where the policy wont provide cover. These are if any traveller:
Is travelling against medical advice; or
Has the intention of obtaining medical treatment or consultation abroad; or
Is currently on or awaiting dialysis, chemotherapy or radiotherapy.
None of the above apply to Mrs D or Mrs M. So, I dont think Euroins has acted fairly or 
reasonably by relying on the policy terms to decline Mrs D and Mrs Ms request to change 
the trip dates on their policy, or to decline cover for Mrs Ms new condition. Euroins also 
hasnt sent any other evidence in support of its position, despite our requests to do so. 
Unless I see any other evidence as above, I currently dont think Euroins acted fairly or 
reasonably by not allowing Mrs D and Mrs M to amend their policy to include Mrs Ms new 
condition or to amend their travel dates.
Because of this, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Euroins to refund Mrs D and 
Mrs M the premium they paid for the policy. Ive thought about if it would be fair for Euroins 
to refund the cost of the new policies Mrs D and Mrs M bought. But from what I can see, 
these have a different level of cover compared to the policy they held with Euroins. So, I 
dont currently think it would be fair for me to ask Euroins to refund the cost of these policies 
 rather, I think it would be fair for Euroins to refund the cost of this policy instead. Euroins 
should also add interest to this refund as Mrs D and Mrs M have been out of pocket by this 
amount.
If Euroins does provide evidence to support its position, I will reconsider the above. But in 
any event, I think Euroins has caused Mrs D and Mrs M unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience in the way that it handled their request to amend the policy. So, I think it 
should pay them £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused regardless.
Mrs D and Mrs M were happy with my provisional decision, and Euroins didnt respond. As 
the deadline to do so has now passed, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me any new information or evidence to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same 
conclusions, for the same reasons.Overall, I dont think Euroins acted fairly or reasonably by not allowing Mrs D and Mrs M to 
amend their policy to include Mrs Ms new condition or to amend their travel dates. I also 
think Euroins caused them unnecessary distress and inconvenience in the way that it 
handled their request to amend the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs D and Mrs Ms complaint and direct Euroins AD to do 
the following:
refund the premium they paid for this policy;
pay 8% simple interest from the date Mrs D and Mrs M requested Euroins to amend 
the policy until date of settlement;
pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman