DRN-2328303
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has declined a claim he made under his
home insurance policy for subsidence.
When the claim was first made, Mr and Mrs M were joint policyholders. They have been 
represented throughout the claim and complaint. Mrs M has since passed away. To keep 
things simple, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs M and their representative collectively as Mr M.
What happened
In 2018 Mr M made a claim to Covea after he noticed damage to his home. There was 
cracking in the extension and the original building. Covea appointed a loss adjuster to 
inspect the damage and arrange for investigations to establish the cause of the problem.
The loss adjuster declined the claim. It said the damage had been caused by subsidence 
due to the moisture demand of nearby trees. Investigations had shown the foundation of the 
extension to be 1m deep but the loss adjuster thought it should be at least 2.2m deep based 
on standards applied by a builder of new homes. Because of this, it said the damage was a 
result of faulty design, which the policy doesnt cover.
Mr M complained. He said the local council had approved plans for the extension  and 
issued a certificate of completion in 2008 to confirm regulations had been met. When Mr M 
bought the property in 2015, his solicitor relied on the certificate from the local council as 
proof the extension had been built according to the relevant regulations. Mr M didnt think it 
was right for the loss adjuster to say the foundation was faulty, despite it being certified as 
meeting building regulations.
The loss adjuster responded to the complaint on behalf of Covea. It said a certificate from 
the local council wasnt a guarantee that all regulations have been met  and so the 
certificate wasnt sufficient evidence the foundations were adequate. The loss adjuster 
considered standards by a builder of new homes to be a relevant guide as to whether the 
foundations were deep enough  and in this case said they werent. The loss adjuster said 
this service had supported this point of view in a previous case.
Mr Ms complaint contained a second point. He understood that if Covea dealt with the claim, 
the loss adjusters solution to the subsidence problem would be to remove trees and carry 
out repairs to the building. One of the trees thought to be causing subsidence is owned by a 
neighbour who Mr M understands is unwilling to remove it. He also noted the tree is subject 
to a preservation order. Because of this he thought it unlikely the loss adjusters solution 
could be carried out and the subsidence problem wouldnt be properly resolved. He 
mentioned underpinning the extension as a solution.
Mr M took advice from a structural engineer who inspected the property and prepared a 
report. In summary the engineer didnt think it was fair to say the foundation was faulty. They 
didnt think the loss adjusters investigations were thorough enough to fully understand the 
cause of subsidence and questioned the solution that had been proposed.
After Mr M referred his complaint to this service, one of our investigators considered it. She 
thought building regulations were more appropriate to consider than the standards of a 
builder of new homes. And she didnt think Covea had shown the extension had failed to 
meet building regulations. Overall she thought it was unfair for Covea to decline the claim. 
She recommended Covea reassess the claim and consider how to settle it.
Mr M broadly agreed with our investigator but Covea didnt. In summary it said building 
regulations werent specific about how foundations should be designed in order to prevent 
subsidence caused by trees in clay soils. It maintained it was fair to consider the standards 
of a builder of new homes instead.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final
decision.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A number of points have been made by Mr M and Covea. Ive considered all of them but Ill 
only include comments below on those which I think are relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, but not damage caused by faulty 
materials, design or poor workmanship.
Covea accepts the extension has been damaged by subsidence and says this was caused 
by clay shrinkage due to nearby trees. But it thinks the foundation design was faulty because 
it wasnt deep enough. The onus is on Covea to show this is the case if it wishes to rely on 
this policy term to decline the claim.
Coveas loss adjuster considered standards applied by a certain builder of new homes, N. It 
says these standards require a foundation depth of at least 2.2m, taking into account the 
nearby trees and soil type underneath Mr Ms extension. As the foundation was 1m deep, 
the loss adjuster considers this to mean the foundation design was faulty.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr Ms extension was subject to these standards. 
The standards apply to builders working for and registered with N when building new homes. 
The extension wasnt built as part of a new home. And theres been no suggestion the 
builder who constructed the extension was working for or under the supervision of N. So Im 
not persuaded it would be fair to judge the design of the foundation against these standards. 
The extension was subject to building regulations. Im satisfied these are the relevant 
standards to take into account when considering if the foundation design was faulty.
Covea has pointed to two parts of the regulations that applied at the time of construction 
which it thinks havent been met.The first is requirement A2. It says, in summary, the building should be constructed so that 
ground movement caused by soil shrinkage wont impair its stability. Covea says that 
because theres been subsidence as a result of clay shrinkage, this point hasnt been met.
I note the next page of the regulations says requirement A2 will be met by following the 
recommendations and guidance in sections 1-4. I understand that to mean requirement A2 is 
a broad aim and there is more detailed, specific information in the following sections about 
how to achieve that aim.
Im not persuaded taking requirement A2 as literally as Covea has would produce a fair 
outcome. It would amount to concluding that any claim for subsidence caused by clay 
shrinkage meant the foundation was faulty and the damage wasnt covered by the policy  
regardless of whether the recommendations and guidance in sections 1-4 have been met.
The second is in section 2, which gives recommendations for the minimum depth of certain 
foundations. Amongst other guidance it says foundations on clay soils should not be less 
than 0.75m, although this depth will commonly need to be increased. The regulations dont 
give further guidance about how much the depth may need to be increased by or in what 
circumstances.
Covea says the most common circumstance where a foundation needs to be increased is 
when there are trees nearby. I agree a competent builder ought to take into account the 
surrounding situation, including trees that are likely to pose a risk to stability. Covea thinks 
the standards of N ought to be applied. But I havent seen that the regulations require a 
builder to refer to the standards of N to determine the foundation depth. And Ive explained 
above why I dont agree the standards of N are relevant here.
The foundation of the extension is 1m. Thats more than 30% deeper than the minimum 
specified. Im satisfied its likely the increased depth beyond the minimum reflects the 
guidance accompanying requirement A2. And I note the local council building control 
certified the extension. It said, after taking all reasonable steps, the substantive 
requirements of Building Regulations are satisfied.
Covea has also pointed to a previous decision issued by this service which it thinks supports 
its view. Every case is different, and we consider each on one its own merits. Ive looked at 
the decision but the circumstances differ considerably from Mr Ms case. So, its not relevant 
to consider this point any further.
For these reasons Im not persuaded Covea has shown the foundation design was faulty. It 
follows that I dont think it was fair for Covea to decline the claim. To put things right, Covea 
should now accept the claim for subsidence damage and deal with it.
I know Mr M is concerned about how Covea will do this. In particular, whether it will insist on 
trying to remove the neighbours tree. Mr M has made Covea aware he thinks this is likely to 
be unsuccessful and the engineer has described removing the tree as a significant heave 
risk. I recognise Mr M would like Covea to pay for underpinning. I would expect Covea to 
take those points of view into account when handling the claim.
When Covea responded to Mr Ms complaint, it didnt go into detail about how it would 
resolve the subsidence problem if it were to deal with Mr Ms claim, because it didnt need to 
 it was declining the claim. For that reason I dont think it would be appropriate for me to 
make a finding on how Covea should deal with the claim.
However, I will explain that as a guiding principle, we generally expect insurers to provide a 
lasting and effective repair. In a subsidence claim, that means stabilising the building. There are different ways of achieving that, including removing trees and/or underpinning. Whats 
most appropriate depends on the particular circumstances of the claim. We also expect 
insurers to handle claims promptly and to take into account the timescale of any possible 
actions when deciding how to handle a claim fairly.
The focus of the claim and complaint has been on the extension. The engineer pointed out
there was also cracking to the original house. That appears to have been captured in a
photo by the loss adjuster but it doesnt seem to have been considered further. So when 
Covea deals with the claim, it should consider the damage in the original house and the 
extension.
To move the claim forward Covea should reassess the information it has about the claim, 
including the engineers report. It should set out clearly to Mr M how it intends to handle the 
claim in order to provide a lasting and effective repair  and the likely timeframe involved.
The engineers report cost £1,344.00, including VAT. The report reviewed the investigation 
carried out by the loss adjuster, including the decision to decline the claim. It concluded this 
was unfair and made recommendations for dealing with the claim. Had Covea dealt with the 
claim fairly, I dont think Mr M would have had cause to turn to an engineer for advice about 
the claim. For that reason I think Covea should reimburse the cost of that report.
I understand the engineer has also provided advice about underpinning the extension. That 
was subject to a separate invoice. Given what Ive said above, I havent considered whether 
the extension should be underpinned. It follows that I havent considered whether Covea 
should pay for the engineers advice about underpinning. But when dealing with the claim, 
this is something Covea should consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M agreed that Covea should deal with the claim. He asked me to consider some points 
about how it would deal with the claim, including the time it would take, whether 
underpinning would be carried out, and ensuring the necessary paperwork is provided.
Covea also responded and made a number of points, which Ill summarise:
The standards applied by N, a builder of new homes, is the correct guidance to use
Guidance for extension foundations, at the time Mr Ms was built, refers to Ns 
standards
The Conservatory Association requires reference to Ns standards when building 
near a tree
Requirement A2 sets out what must happen and the remainder is guidance
My provisional decision ignores an essential phrase and interprets regulations as if 
the words werent present
The Completion Certificate was issued by the local authority four years after 
permission was granted and some while after completion of the structure
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments, including the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Its clear Covea firmly believes its entitled to decline Mr Ms claim. It accepts the damage 
has been caused by subsidence. But it considers its provided enough evidence to show the foundation design was faulty  and therefore its shown the exclusion applies. Ive thought 
about all the points its made. Ill focus my findings on the points I think are most relevant to 
the outcome of this complaint.
The damage at Mr Ms house is to an extension  not a conservatory. So Im not persuaded 
the guidelines of the Conservatory Association are relevant to this complaint. But I 
understand Covea is seeking to make a more general point  organisations other than N 
may use or refer to Ns standards.
As Covea knows, this service considers each case on its merits. Depending on the 
circumstances of a particular complaint, different regulations, standards or guidelines may 
apply and different evidence may be available.
Whats relevant here is for me to decide which standards applied to Mr Ms extension at the 
time it was built, around 2004, and whether the evidence shows those standards were met.
In response to my provisional decision, Covea says guidance for extension foundations in 
2004 were set out in a document published by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister  and 
this included reference to Ns standards.
The only documents Covea has provided from the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister are 
the building regulations I considered in my provisional decision. I havent seen any reference 
within these regulations to Ns standards. And Covea hasnt pointed me to where any such 
reference might be. So Im not persuaded Covea has shown why Ns standards are relevant 
in Mr Ms complaint. And I remain satisfied the Building Regulations are relevant.
Covea says requirement A2 of the regulations sets out what must happen. And the 
remainder of the document is guidance. Ive looked again at the wording of the document.
After setting out requirement A2, the first part of the next page says: In the Secretary of 
States view the requirements of A2 will be met by  adopting the guidance in Sections 2-4.
Section 2 deals with, amongst other things, foundation depth. Im satisfied the wording of the 
regulations is clear that complying with the guidance in Section 2 means the requirement A2 
will be met. Because of that I think its relevant to consider the guidance in Section 2. And, 
as I set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded taking requirement A2 as literally 
as Covea has would produce a fair outcome. It would amount to concluding that any claim 
for subsidence caused by clay shrinkage meant the foundation was faulty and the damage 
wasnt covered by the policy. Covea has acknowledged this in its response to my provisional 
decision and hasnt challenged it.
Theres no dispute that Section 2 requires a minimum foundation depth of 0.75m, although 
this depth will commonly need to be increased. As the actual depth of the foundation is 1m, 
clearly the minimum has been met and the depth has been increased. In Coveas view, it 
hasnt been increased enough.
Covea accepts the regulations dont give further guidance about how much to increase the 
depth. It says however, it doesnt follow that this depth will commonly need to be increased 
has no meaning. Its there for a purpose. It is for the building professional to assess what 
depth is required to meet the standard  set out in A2.
I agree with Covea that the regulation has meaning and its for the builder to make a 
judgement about how to meet it. No evidence from the builder has been provided so I cant 
speculate as to what assessment they made. But they did build the foundation more than 
30% deeper than the minimum required by the regulation. And Covea hasnt shown that these regulations require reference to Ns standards. So Im not satisfied it would be fair to 
say the requirements of building regulations havent been met or have been treated as 
meaningless.
Id like to reassure Covea that I havent ignored the wording of requirement of A2. Ive taken 
it into account, including Coveas interpretation of it, and reached my own view about what a 
reasonable interpretation of it is. Ive set out here, and in my provisional decision, what that 
is and why I consider that produces an outcome that is fair and reasonable in Mr Ms case.
Covea doesnt consider it fair for me to place weight on the wording I quoted from the 
Completion Certificate in my provisional decision. Its been issued by the local authority 
building control department, refers to the correct address and the single storey extension. It 
said, after taking all reasonable steps, the substantive requirements of Building Regulations 
are satisfied. I havent seen any evidence from the local authority to suggest the certificate 
was issued in error or is incorrect. So I accept what it says.
When Mr M bought the house in 2015, the structure had already been built. I understand his 
solicitor obtained a copy of the certificate. Im satisfied Mr M took reasonable steps to ensure 
the extension was constructed according to Building Regulations.
Overall, Im satisfied it was unfair for Covea to decline the claim. To put things right it should 
accept the claim for the damage to the extension and original building caused by 
subsidence. 
Mr Ms response to my provisional decision was focused on how Covea should deal with the 
claim after accepting it.
Mr M has been described as elderly and vulnerable. Hes explained how the claim arose 
because he needed to sell the house in order to move to sheltered accommodation. During 
this process the damage was discovered, and the claim was made. Hes been unable to 
proceed with the sale since then. That was two years ago. Mr M has told us its important to 
him that the claim is settled in good time and without Covea compromising on quality. He 
would like Covea to underpin the property.
My view remains the same as it did in my provisional decision. I havent made a finding on 
how Covea should deal with the claim for the reason I explained.
Covea has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. The policy terms and conditions set 
out how Covea will settle the claim. For example, it might repair, replace or offer a cash 
amount to reflect the cost of carrying out repairs. So when Covea considers how it will settle 
the claim and enable building stability, it should take into account how long thats likely to 
take  and how likely it is to succeed  and bear in mind Mr Ms circumstances. These are, 
in my view, aspects of handling the claim promptly and fairly. Whichever way Covea deals 
with the claim, it should ensure all relevant paperwork is provided to Mr M.
Mr M understands that once Covea accepts the claim, the loss adjusters solution to the 
subsidence problem would be to remove trees and carry out repairs to the building. One of 
the trees thought to be causing subsidence is owned by a neighbour who Mr M understands 
is unwilling to remove it. He also noted the tree is subject to a preservation order. And Mr 
Ms engineer has described removing the tree as a significant heave risk. Because of this, 
Mr M would like Covea to deal with the claim by underpinning the house. Its a matter for 
Covea now to decide how it will settle the claim.
Neither Mr M nor Covea commented on my findings about the two invoices, so my view on 
them remains the same. In summary, I found that Covea should pay the engineers report which cost £1,344.00, including VAT. Covea should add interest to the cost of this report, 
from the date the invoice was paid until the date Covea pays Mr M. Mr M will need to send 
evidence to Covea of the date on which the invoice was paid. 
The other report was about underpinning, but Im not directing Covea on how to settle the 
claim, so I havent considered whether this report should be paid. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Covea Insurance plc to:
accept the subsidence claim for the original building and extension;
pay £1,344 for the engineers report and add 8% simple interest from the date it was 
paid until the date Covea pays Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman