DRN-3453840
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the service she received from OneSavings Bank Plc, trading as Kent 
Reliance, surrounding the opening of a saving account.  
What happened
Mrs C opened a saving account with Kent Reliance. The saving account was a branch 
operated account and included the use of an account passbook. At the time the account was 
opened Mrs C was shielding due to Covid-19, so her son went into branch to collect the 
passbook on her behalf. However, Kent Reliance wouldnt allow Mrs Cs son to have the 
passbook and they also wouldnt post it to her, insisting instead that Mrs C was required to 
collect the passbook from branch herself as the account was a branch operated account. 
Mrs C wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Kent Reliance looked at Mrs Cs complaint. They confirmed that account was a branch 
operated account, and so they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mrs C in how the 
situation had been managed. Kent Reliance also noted that theyd made an exception to 
their account operating procedures and had posted the passbook to Mrs C after taking her 
circumstances into consideration. 
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with Kent Reliances response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Kent 
Reliance had acted unfairly towards Mrs C, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has explained that shes unhappy that Kent Reliance didnt have policies and 
processes in place to enable account holders who were shielding from Covid-19, such as 
herself, to be able to operate their accounts without the need to visit branch. I can appreciate 
Mrs Cs position here, but this service isnt a regulatory body (in contrast to, for instance, the 
Financial Conduct Authority), and so it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a 
business to change its policies or procedures. Instead, the remit of this service is to assess 
the specific circumstances of a complaint and make an impartial assessment of whether a 
fair or unfair outcome is considered to have occurred.
In this instance, its notable that Mrs C is unhappy with the service she received from Kent 
Reliance immediately after opening her account. But the account that Mrs C chose to apply 
for was a branch operated account, and I feel that it was incumbent on Mrs C to have 
understood that this type of account entailed that she would, as the account holder, have to 
administer the account by personally visiting a Kent Reliance branch.
If Mrs C wasnt happy to accept the parameters of the account, including that the account 
was a branch managed account, then I feel that its more reasonable to say that such an 
account potentially wasnt suitable for Mrs C, rather than saying that Kent Reliance did 
anything wrong by administering that account in line with the terms of the account, which it 
must be noted that Mrs C had agreed to when opening it.
Additionally, while I do feel that Kent Reliance should have accounted for the impact of 
Covid-19, I dont feel that this should necessarily have included allowing the remote 
administration of branch managed accounts. This is because I wouldnt expect a business to 
change the nature of their products in such a way. Rather, what I would have expected 
would have been that Kent Reliance would have taken steps to protect, as much as 
reasonably possible, the safety of their account holders when visiting Kent Reliance 
branches. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that this wasnt the case, and it also 
isnt an aspect of Mrs Cs complaint.
Finally, given that Kent Reliance did make an exception to their account operating processes 
and did agree to post the account passbook to Mrs C in this instance, I also dont feel that 
theres been any significant impact here. Instead, I feel that Kent Reliances actions in this 
regard demonstrate that they did take account of Mrs Cs individual circumstances and were 
willing to make an exception to their processes which they were under no practical obligation 
to make. And while I appreciate that Mrs C may have been inconvenienced by this matter, I 
dont feel that this inconvenience stemmed from Kent Reliance acting unreasonably or in any 
way for which they should fairly be censured.
All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that Kent Reliance have acted unfairly 
towards Mrs C here in the manner that Mrs C contends, and it follows from this that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Kent Reliance to take any further action. I realise 
this wont be the outcome Mrs C was hoping for, but I trust shell understand, given all that 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman