DRN-3360805
The complaint
Miss G feels that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) unfairly applied charges 
and interest to her account and was irresponsible to allow her to go overdrawn.
What happened
Miss G complained to Clydesdale about charges and interest which were applied to her 
account. She says her financial circumstances meant she should never have been allowed 
to go overdrawn and asked that Clydesdale refund all the charges and interest that it had 
applied to her account.
Clydesdale looked at Miss Gs complaint, it felt the charges applied to her account were fair. 
Miss G remained unhappy and so she referred her complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Gs concerns, she explained that she didnt think 
Clydesdale had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Miss Gs account, and that she felt 
Clydesdale had responded appropriately to Miss Gs financial difficulties. Miss G disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Miss Gs complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint about 
the charges applied to her account. Ill explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Clydesdale charged Miss G were fair and reasonable. Ultimately how much 
a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. So this isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Clydesdales charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Miss G if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges 
to her account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing 
financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where Clydesdale didnt 
treat Miss G fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that Clydesdale did treat Miss G unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at her 
account statements, I can see that she went into an unarranged overdraft in late 2018. When 
she didnt repay this outstanding balance, Clydesdale wrote to her to ask her to get in touch 
about her account, and when Miss G didnt respond or pay anything into her account 
Clydesdale took action to stop any more charges from being applied to her account and 
refunded some of the charges that had already been applied.  
This is the kind of action we would expect a bank to take in these circumstances  firstly 
making contact to ask the consumer to get in touch about the account, and then stepping 
in to take proactive action to stop the account from deteriorating further  so I dont think 
Clydesdale acted unfairly or that it needs to refund to Miss G any more of the charges 
that it applied to her account.
And prior to when the account went overdrawn in late 2018 I dont think there were any 
clear signs of financial difficulty on Miss Gs account that meant Clydesdale should have 
been aware that she was at risk of financial difficulties or might need specific assistance 
with her account.
I note that Miss G has said there was a regular payment from her account which often 
caused it to go overdrawn, and that Clydesdale could have cancelled this payment for 
her. But looking at her statements, it appears that there were a variety of payments  
direct debits and card payments to retailers  that caused it to go overdrawn over the 
years. I cant see one specific repeat payment that regularly caused her issues. And in 
any case, it was Miss Gs responsibility to manage her account to ensure there were 
sufficient funds to meet the payments that were due.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss G, but Im satisfied that Clydesdale 
hasnt treated her unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman