DRN-3206658
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt settled a claim 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy in December 2019. It 
covered them between 1 January and 31 December 2020. The insurer was URV.
Mr and Mrs B travelled abroad in February 2020 and they were due to return to the UK via 
Singapore on 24 March 2020. But when they arrived at the airport for the return flight, the 
airline told them the Singapore government had closed the border. Mr and Mrs B say the 
flight was only available to those with a Singapore passport. The airline has provided a letter 
confirming that Mr and Mrs B didnt travel on the return flights as they were cancelled.
Mr and Mrs B eventually found and paid for a new flight back to the UK for 30 March 2020. 
Mr and Mrs B say they havent received any refunds for the costs they incurred. So, they 
made a claim to URV.
URV declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It said this was because the situation they found 
themselves in wasnt covered by their policy. Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs B 
brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Having done so, she didnt 
think URV had done anything wrong when it declined the claim. In summary, she said that 
the policy didnt cover travel costs where the policyholder needed to stay abroad longer than 
expected, other than in a medical emergency. The investigator said Mr and Mrs B should 
pursue the matter with the airline, and any relevant industry dispute resolution service, if they 
wished to do so.
Mr and Mrs B asked the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As no agreement was 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs B didnt cancel their holiday, and they didnt return home early. Instead, they 
couldnt return home as they intended, and the airline has said the return flights were 
cancelled. So, Mr and Mrs B had to extend their holiday.
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. So, Ive looked at the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy.
Having done so, I cant see that Mr and Mrs B held any cover for the situation they found 
themselves in. They didnt cancel or curtail their holiday, so these sections of the policy dont 
apply here. The airline didnt become insolvent, and the Travel Delay and Abandonment 
sections only provide cover where there are delays to outbound flights, not inbound flights  
which are in dispute here. 
Mr and Mrs B also had Natural Disaster cover, but this wouldve only applied here where the 
area was quarantined. And in any event, this section doesnt provide cover for alternative 
transport home, or the cost of any unused travel expenses.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but I dont think URV has done anything wrong by 
declining their claim. This is because theres no section under the policy terms and 
conditions that provides cover in their circumstances.
That said, I can see that Mr and Mrs B had Travel Dispute cover, which covers professional 
fees for pursuing a breach of contract claim arising from a contract, amongst others, with an 
airline. Ill leave it to Mr and Mrs B to check their policy documents for what theyre covered 
for, and what theyd need to do to pursue this, if they wish to do so. This section of the policy 
is underwritten by a different insurer, so I make no finding on it in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman