DRN-3295205
The complaint
Mrs M complains Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly refused a theft claim she made on her 
motorhome insurance policy.
Mrs M has been represented during the claim and for this complaint. For simplicity Ive 
referred to the representatives actions and comments as being those of Mrs M.
What happened
In April 2018 Mrs M entered into an agreement with a dealer for it to sell her motorhome. Ive 
referred to the dealer as B. Mrs M says she was offered two options for the sale by B. 
Those were a Broker Sales Service with a guaranteed agreed return of £28,000 or a Trade 
Valuation option with a value of £24,000. 
Mrs M chose the former, signing a broker sales agreement instructing B to sell the 
motorhome. She handed over the vehicle, keys and relevant documentation to an employee 
of B. Ive referred to the employee as E. The next day B sold the motorhome. But it didnt 
provide Mrs M with any of the proceeds. 
In July 2018 B went into liquidation and was wound up. A director of B (Ive referred to her as 
D) is now the subject of a police investigation and criminal prosecution. She seems to have 
been the owner of the dealership, B.
 
In June 2019 Mrs M claimed for the theft of the motorhome on her Allianz motorhome 
insurance policy. The claim was refused. Allianz said it wasnt the motor home that was 
stolen. Instead it said B had stolen the proceeds of its sale and that wasnt covered by the 
policy.
Mrs M complained to Allianz. She explained why she felt there had been a theft of the 
motorhome itself. B had sold the motorhome to a trade buyer for less than the agreed return 
of £28,000. She says selling for that price and to that type of buyer was done without her 
consent. It was contrary to the specific instructions she had given by signing the broker sales 
agreement  and rejecting the trade value sale. She said there was therefore a theft by 
appropriation of the motorhome.
In July 2019 Allianz responded to her complaint. It didnt change its position regarding theft. 
It still felt the proceeds of sale had been stolen rather than the vehicle. It provided other 
reasons for declining the claim. These included the policy excluding loss whilst a car is on 
the premises of a motor trader. It also said if Mrs M considered B had been dishonest in the 
way in which it had sold her vehicle it could consider this to be theft by deception  
something excluded by the policy.
Mrs M still felt Allianz had unfairly refused her claim, so she came to this service in October 
2019. She said there was theft by appropriation of the motor home and there wasnt any 
deception or fraud involved. And that it isnt fair, in the circumstances, to apply the motor 
trade premises exclusion.   
In July 2020 our investigator provided an assessment of Mrs M complaint. They felt Allianz 
had made a fair decision on the claim. They didnt recommend it do anything differently. As 
Mrs M didnt accept that, the complaint was passed to me.
In August 2020 D was disqualified, by the Insolvency Service, from directing a company for 
eight years. This resulted from unfit conduct regarding the treatment of Bs customers. A 
Disqualification Undertaking report was produced by the Insolvency Service and shared 
with this service. 
In November 2020, in response to a request from Mrs Ms representative, the Prosecutor 
Fiscals Office, provided a letter stating criminal proceedings had been raised against D. It 
also says
 On the evidence before me, I can confirm that there is sufficient evidence in 
law to libel a charge of theft for each complainer, including theft of the vehicle 
themselves. (The Crown may ultimately choose to prosecute her for a more 
serious offence. However even if this occurs, the option for the jury to convict 
her of simple theft will remain). 
Allianz was shown the letter, but it didnt change its position on the claim. 
In January 2022 I issued a provisional decision for the complaint. I explained why I didnt 
intend to require Allianz to pay Mrs Ms claim or do anything differently. In summary I said it 
was fair and reasonable for Allianz to rely on the theft by deception exclusion to refuse her 
claim. Below, as it forms part of this final decision, Ive copied in my reasoning for coming to 
that position. 
I asked Mrs M and Allianz to provide anything they would like me to consider before I came 
to a final decision. Allianz didnt respond. Mrs M didnt accept my findings. She said even if 
there were deception involved, allowing Allianz to rely on the exclusion would lead to an 
unduly harsh outcome for her.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id like to assure Mrs M and Allianz that Ive considered everything they have 
provided for this complaint. But as this is an informal service, I havent responded to 
every point made. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues and 
significant points.
Allianz has said the loss happened after Mrs Ms policy was cancelled. Im not 
currently persuaded of that. Mrs M signed the sales agreement with B on 19 April 
2018. She says Bs liquidator has reported her motorhome as being sold the 
following day. Allianz has shown the policy to have been cancelled six days later.
Theft of the motorhome is covered by Mrs Ms policy. Theft is defined as Theft, 
attempted theft, or the taking away of your vehicle without your consent. Allianzs 
position is there wasnt a theft of the motorhome  instead it was the proceeds of the 
sale that was the subject of any theft.  
Mrs M argues there was a theft by appropriation of the motorhome. Ive provided 
some of her reasoning for this above  so I wont repeat it here. Ive considered legal 
arguments and caselaw shes provided to support her position. Ive also taken into account the actions and position of the Procurator Fiscals Office  as explained 
above. 
The Insolvency Services Disqualification Undertaking for D provides some detail of 
her knowledge and intentions around the time B took on and sold Mrs Ms 
motorhome. In it D states:
 Between 1 January 2018 and 18 May 2018, a further 21 brokerage 
agreements were entered into by me at a time when I knew or ought to 
have known that B was insolvent and unable to pay the agreed return 
price. 
D also admits she entered into those sale agreements at a time when the monies 
received from those agreements were used to fund historic liabilities. She accepts 
that in 18 examples she sold the vehicle for less than the agreed return price (set out 
in the broker sales agreement) without notifying the motorhomes owners. 
Mrs Ms broker agreement was signed in April 2018. It seems likely to have been one 
of those D refers to above. It seems likely to me that at the time of entering into the 
agreement with Mrs M that B was acting dishonestly, under the direction of D, and 
didnt intend to pay her the agreed return price  or even anything at all. 
Ive considered Allianzs argument that it was really the funds from the sale that were 
stolen. But I think in this case, for the reasons given, including that B didnt pay Mrs 
M anything, seeming to have never intended to pay her what was agreed and the 
intended prosecution of D, I think that in regard to an everyday understanding of the 
concept, most people would consider that the motorhome had been stolen. Therefore 
I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for AXA to consider the claim as though a 
theft has occurred.
During the claim Allianz has referred to this deception exclusion as a reason for 
refusing the claim: 
We shall not be liable to pay for: Loss of damage to the insured vehicle 
as a result of someone taking it by fraud or deception.
Mrs M has said Allianz is no longer relying on the exclusion to refuse the 
claim. I asked Allianz for clarity. It confirmed, if the claim is to be treated as a 
theft taking place, it considers the deception exclusion as a ground for it to 
decline.   
So Ive considered if its fair and reasonable for Allianz to apply the deception 
exclusion to refuse Mrs Ms claim. Having done so, I currently think it is. I realise this 
will be a disappointment for Mrs M, but Ill explain why. 
Deception isnt defined in the policy. Therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable 
to apply its ordinary meaning. An everyday meaning or understanding of the term is 
to deceive - to make someone believe something that isnt true. 
If there was a theft of the motorhome as B, under its director and owner D, never 
intended to pay Mrs M the agreed return amount, or even anything at all, then it 
seems there was deception involved. As set out above D seems to have, at the time 
of taking Mrs Ms motorhome, already been using funds from similar sales to fund 
historic debts. And D, according to the Disqualification Undertaking, knew or ought to 
have known the agreed return for the sale would not be paid to Mrs M. So it would seem Mrs M was induced to enter into the sales agreement by being 
made to believe that she would be paid an agreed amount for the sale of her 
motorhome, when it was known by D that she wouldnt  or at the very best probably 
wouldnt. 
Mrs M doesnt agree there was any deception. She says the theft took place at the 
later point, so there was no earlier deception involved. Instead the theft or loss of 
the motorhome was when D decided to sell the vehicle contrary to her instructions - 
for less that the agreed return price. 
Mrs Ms provided comments from Bs Insolvency Practitioner (IP). The IP says, from 
memory, she was engaged by D around about four to six weeks before liquidation. 
That would be early to mid-June 2018. The IP says prior to her consideration of the 
situation D believed B might be able to trade its way through the situation. Mrs M 
says this makes it clear D didnt know about Bs financial situation. 
I think Mrs Ms point is this means D didnt know she wouldnt be paid the agreed 
return amount when the broker sales agreement was signed. Therefore, according to 
Mrs M, D wasnt involved in deception - instead D was an inept business manager 
and an opportunistic motorhome thief. Mrs Ms also highlighted that the 
Disqualification Undertaking says I knew or ought to have known (that B was 
unable to pay the agreed return). She points out that being ought to have known is 
not the same as actually knowing  something required for there to be deception.   
Ive considered Mrs Ms comments, but I think D probably did know Mrs M wouldnt 
be paid the agreed return price  or even anything at all - when the broker sales 
agreement was being arranged and signed. I note the recollections of the IP but, 
according to the Disqualification Undertaking it seems B had been, for many months, 
selling motorhomes for less than agreed and then not paying the proceeds to the 
seller. 
The sale of Mrs Ms motorhome, for less than the agreed return, happened the day 
after the broker sales agreement was signed. For me to agree the motorhome should 
be considered as stolen, but without any deception involved, Id have to think D was 
acting honestly towards Mrs M on day one, but by day two had dishonest intentions. I 
accept that may be possible, but considering everything else, it seems unlikely. It 
seems more likely to me that she was aware at both points that the motorhome 
would be sold for less than agreed  and that B wouldnt be paying Mrs M the agreed 
return.         
As Mrs M points out D wasnt involved in the initial negotiation with Mrs M - the 
signing of the sales agreement, collection of the motorhome and so on was 
performed by E. Mrs M says that means no-one took the motorhome by fraud or 
deception as required for the exclusion to apply. 
There isnt anything to make me think E himself wasnt acting in good faith. But it 
seems likely to me that E was ultimately fulfilling his job role and acting under 
instruction of D, as his superior, director and the owner of B, to make a commitment 
to Mrs M that it seems D knew wouldnt be fulfilled. So Es involvement doesnt 
persuade me it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for the exclusion to apply. 
Mrs Ms highlighted that The Procurator Fiscals Office letter explains on the evidence before me, I can confirm that at the point the vehicles 
were in the possession of D (whether they were handed personally to 
her or via a third party), there is no evidence of deception. 
Mrs M also refers to earlier comments from the Police that there was no fraud, 
deception or trickery involved. I dont have access to the evidence available to the 
Procurator Fiscals Office or the Police  only their short statements. Im more 
persuaded by what I have seen. That information makes me think its reasonable for 
Allianz to conclude the loss of the motorhome involved Mrs M being deceived. She 
was made to believe something D knew wasnt true  that she would be paid the 
agreed return amount for her motorhome.    
Mrs M feels I shouldnt refer to the Disqualification Undertaking when considering this 
complaint. She says its only intended for specific purposes as set out by the 
Company Director Disqualification Act 1986. 
Ive thought about what Mrs M says, including the reasons she gives for the reports 
contents not necessarily providing a fair representation of the circumstances. She 
says its intended for a specific purpose and not for third-party use. She also says D 
wouldnt have been able to dispute its contents  and had an incentive not to. 
However, I still think its reasonable to take the Disqualification Undertaking into 
account when considering the circumstances of this complaint. I note what Mrs M 
says, but I still feel it provides an insight into Ds intentions and knowledge at the time 
his sales agreement was entered in to. And regarding its availability, the Insolvency 
Service released the same information as a press release. It also provided this 
service with a copy of the full report. So its freely available information and in the 
public domain.  
Mrs Ms referred to a selection of final decisions issued by this service. They consider 
the fairness of an insurers reliance on a deception exclusion to refuse a motor theft 
claim. She points to them as examples of this service deciding a strict application of a 
deception clause would lead to an unfairly harsh outcome for the policyholder. She 
says the same applies to her claim.  
In support of her position Mrs Ms quoted a policy statement outlining this services 
approach to potentially harsh outcomes in theft by deception cases. In summary it 
says this service draws a distinction between circumstances in which a consumer 
voluntarily handed over possession of a vehicle to the thief and those where a 
consumer intended to retain control over a vehicle. 
This service considers each complaint against its own individual circumstances. And 
its not for me to comment on how the ombudsman came to their decision in the 
individual cases. But it does seem that in general, in the example decisions provided, 
the ombudsman didnt feel the policyholder had voluntarily handed over possession 
to the thief. I cant say thats the case for this complaint. Whilst I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs M I think its fair and reasonable for Allianz to rely on the 
exclusion for theft by deception to refuse her claim. 
As well as deception, Allianz has referred to other exclusions as grounds to refuse 
Mrs Ms claim. I havent considered if it would be fair for Allianz to rely on those. 
Ultimately it wouldnt make a difference to the outcome of the complaint. Thats 
because I currently feel its fair for it to rely on the deception exclusion to refuse the 
claim.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms response to my provisional decision focused on this services approach to 
potentially harsh outcomes resulting from a strict application of a theft by deception 
exclusion. She referred to a selection of decisions issued by ombudsmen from this service. 
In those the ombudsman found a literal or strict application could lead to an unfair outcome. 
She repeated her thought that the same should apply to her claim. 
I addressed this issue in my provisional decision. So I dont intend to do the same in detail 
here. However, Mrs M asks I explain why I consider that, in her circumstances, a literal 
application of the deception clause doesnt lead to an unduly harsh outcome. 
As I explained in my provisional decision this service draws a distinction between 
circumstances in which a consumer voluntarily handed over possession of a vehicle to the 
thief and those where a consumer intended to retain control over a vehicle. In the decisions 
referred to by Mrs M, the ombudsman seems to have felt the policyholder hadnt, or didnt 
intend to, voluntarily handed over possession to the thief. And as I said in my provisional 
decision, I cant say thats the case for Mrs M.
Whilst I realise this will be very disappointing for Mrs M I still feel its fair and reasonable for 
Allianz to rely on the exclusion for theft by deception to refuse her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mrs Ms claim or do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman