DRN-3361890
Complaint
Miss P has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to 
her. She says the loan was provided at a time when she was already struggling and couldnt 
afford the payments.
Background
Avant Credit provided Miss P with a loan for £3,600.00 in May 2015. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of around £191. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Ps complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Miss P with this loan. So she thought that Miss Ps complaint should be 
upheld. Avant Credit didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ps complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Miss P could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Despite being provided with an extended period of time to do so, Avant Credit hasnt 
explained why it disagrees with our adjudicators assessment. I find Avant Credits lack of a 
response and its apparent disregard of its DISP 1 obligations to be extremely disappointing. 
Nonetheless, Ive looked at the information Avant Credit obtained when it provided this loan 
in an attempt to determine whether it made a fair lending decision. 
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that Avant Credit carried out a credit 
check. The results of which clearly demonstrated that Miss P was already significantly 
indebted and deep in a cycle of payday and other high-cost lending. So Im persuaded by 
what Miss P has said about already being in a difficult financial position at the time. And 
while its possible she could have been taking these loans through choice rather than 
because she was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this 
is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Avant Credit, Ive 
been persuaded to accept Miss Ps version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Ps existing debts meant that she was unlikely to be 
able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And as 
reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding out about Miss Ps 
income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not have shown Avant 
Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss P. 
As Avant Credit provided Miss P with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss P has ended up paying (and is still being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges 
on a loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss P lost out 
because of what Avant Credit did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Miss P
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Miss P by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss P made, to Avant Credit (and any debt purchaser since the account 
was sold), should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £3.600.00 
originally lent. If Miss P has already repaid more than £3,600.00 then Avant Credit 
should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded 
to Miss P;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss P to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Avant Credit recorded about this loan should be removed from Miss Ps 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
Id also remind Avant Credit of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if 
it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have 
been made to the account (should it buy it back from to third-party debt purchaser it sold her 
debt to), and its the case that Miss P is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman