DRN-3380974
The complaint
Miss P complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) refunded some interest 
and charges having admitted it mis managed her credit card account, but this only covered a 
short period of time.  
What happened
Miss P says she received a letter from Halifax at the end of November 2020 saying it was 
refunding interest fees and charges charged to her credit card account in excess of £750 as 
it had mismanaged her affairs. Miss P says the letter only covered a period of time between 
mid-April 2019 to early August 2019. Miss P says she queried this with Halifax asking it to 
review her credit card account, but it ignored her requests. Miss P says her account has 
been mishandled since June 2018 and feels Halifaxs review should have started then.
Miss P wants Halifax to refund all interest fees and charges from June 2018, plus 8% simple 
interest. 
Halifax says the refund made at the end of November 2020 specifically related to the time 
Miss Ps credit card account was with its collection team, as it was felt it may have been with 
that department longer than necessary. Halifax says all other interest and charges have 
been applied correctly, in line with its terms and conditions. 
Miss P wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Halifax had agreed to refund interest and charges specifically relating to the 
time Miss Ps account was with their collections department. The investigator reminded Miss 
P she couldnt consider any irresponsible lending issues as this service had already opined 
on that in June 2018 and no further limit increase had since been approved. 
Miss P didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
The first thing to say here is this service have already issued a final decision in June 2018 
regarding irresponsible lending and the interest and charges applied to Miss Ps credit card 
account. So it has been explained to Miss P we can only consider any issues on her credit 
card account from that date  but here no further increases in her credit card limit have 
happened, so given that, I cant consider any irresponsible lending here. 
I was sorry to hear Miss P still believes Halifax have treated her unfairly, but when looking at 
this complaint I can only consider if it has treated her unfairly since June 2018 to date and if 
it unreasonably applied interest and charges to her credit card account. 
Miss Ps complaint centres around the fact that Halifax have accepted it failed to deal with 
her credit card account correctly and refunded her with some interest and charges, but only 
for a period between April 2019 to August 2019, when in fact Miss P feels it had failed to do 
so for a much longer period of time. 
I have seen a letter from Halifax sent to Miss P dated 30 November 2020. In that letter it 
explains to Miss P that during her time with its internal collections department it didnt always 
take the appropriate course of action, and as a result refunded Miss P with a total of 
£761.41. 
Its worth saying here that this service got an explanation from Halifax as to what it meant by 
appropriate course of action and it has explained the refund was a direct result of Miss Ps 
credit card account being held in its collections department, for a prolonged period of time. 
So, with that in mind its not saying the charges or interest were miscalculated, only that her 
credit card account could have been taken out of its collection department sooner. 
So, when considering Miss Ps complaint, I have to consider whether Halifax had incorrectly 
charged her credit card account with late/missed payment fees or overcharged interest 
outside of this period and after June 2018, for the reason we have already stated. Miss P 
hasnt provided this service with any evidence to support her view her account was 
mishandled by Halifax outside of the time it was in its collection department, or able to 
specifically identify any fees/charges or interest that was incorrectly applied.  
To check if there were any clear overcharging, this service obtained copies of the statements 
on Miss Ps credit card account for the period in question. Its fair to say having looked at the 
credit card account statements, aside from the time the credit card account was in Halifaxs 
collections department, from what I can see while interest has been charged to her credit 
card account, it has been applied in line with the advertised interest rate detailed in her 
monthly credit card statements. Its also worth mentioning these statements show no fees 
were applied to Miss Ps credit card account, even though on occasions the minimum 
payments werent met. 
While Miss P may not agree, I cant say Halifax have applied interest or charges it shouldnt 
have or theres any evidence to suggest it unfairly dealt with Miss Ps affairs during this time. 
I can see that an interest rate increase was proposed, but this never went ahead, there were 
no limit increases on Miss Ps credit card account from June 2018  there was an interest 
rate decrease in December 2020, so given that, I cant see Miss P has been treated unfairly 
here. 
It follows, while Miss P will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of 
Halifax here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Barry WhiteOmbudsman