DRN-2170236
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a claim under her 
home emergency policy.
Mrs L is represented on this case but, for ease, I will refer only to Mrs L.
What happened
Mrs Ls family visited her in her home and found she had no heating or hot water. Her family 
carried out some checks and managed to get the boiler working. They then contacted IPA to 
ask it to check the boiler as it wasnt clear why the boiler had stopped working. IPA said that 
it wouldnt come out as the boiler was now working.
The next day, the boiler failed again and Mrs Ls family found her wrapped in a blanket to 
keep warm. Mrs Ls family gave her a plug-in heater and contacted IPA to look at the boiler. 
IPA sent an engineer the following day.
The engineer told Mrs L that he needed a part and would return the next day. He left the 
boiler switched off and told Mrs L that there might be a few drips from the tank. That 
afternoon, Mrs Ls daughter visited and checked the boiler cupboard. She found that the 
entire area was soaking wet, as was the landing hallway carpet. She found a leak coming 
from the bottom of the boiler.
Mrs Ls son, who is a plumber, came to examine the boiler. He found that the system hadnt 
been drained and the water supply hadnt been isolated, which meant water had leaked from 
the boiler. By the time the leak was stopped, the water had soaked through to the ceiling and 
walls below, damaging the kitchen and hallway, as well as damaging a carpet.
Mrs L complained to IPA. IPA said that when Mrs L first contacted them about the boiler, she 
told them that the boiler was losing pressure every two weeks. When the engineer attended, 
he found a leak and drained the system and advised that there might be some residual water 
left in the system. It said that the engineer removed as much water from the system as 
possible and that as the water pressure had been failing for a number of weeks, this 
suggested there had been an ongoing leak for some time.
Mrs L complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he thought 
it was more likely that the damaged was caused after the engineer visited and that IPA had 
provided little evidence to support its position. He said IPA should pay Mrs Ls excesses, 
totalling £500, for having to deal with the damage under her home insurance policy and £100 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
As IPA did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that there was a leak from Mrs Ls boiler. The issue is whether IPA caused 
the leak. IPA has said that as there were issues with the boiler losing pressure before it 
came out to look at it this means that its more likely that the leak was an ongoing issue 
rather than as a result of its engineers visit.
Ive listened to the phone calls between IPA and various of Mrs Ls family members. In the 
first phone call to IPA, when it declined to send an engineer as the boiler was working, a 
family member said that the boiler pressure had been dropping over a period of time and 
had to be topped up and that this was now getting more frequent. During the conversation, 
there is no mention of a leak, only that there is no heating or hot water.
I asked IPA a number of questions about this case, including whether it had any evidence 
that the engineer had isolated the water supply or recorded any concerns about an existing 
leak or wet carpets. IPA said it had no comment to make beyond what it had already said in 
its response to Mrs L.
Ive thought about whether it was likely that there was an ongoing leak before the engineer 
visited. IPA said that the damage was a result of a long term leak. Given the amount of 
damage to Mrs Ls home, I think there would have been clear signs of a leak over a period of 
time if that was the case. Mrs Ls family had to top the boiler up a couple of times, so I think 
it is more likely than not that they would have seen evidence of a leak around the boiler 
when they did this, but they didnt notice anything. When a family member made the first 
phone call to IPA, there was also no mention of a leak. There is also no evidence that the 
engineer found a leak or raised any concerns with Mrs L about this. All he seems to have 
told her is that there might be some residual water in the system. 
Ive taken into account that there were already pressure problems with the boiler, but this still 
doesnt give me enough reason to think that there was an ongoing leak that no-one, 
including IPAs own engineer, seemed to notice before it caused significant damage to Mrs 
Ls home. Ive also no reason to doubt what Mrs Ls son, who is a plumber, said about 
having to drain down the system to stop a significant leak after the engineer visited. So, in 
my view, I think its more likely than not that there wasnt a leak before the engineer visited 
and that, instead, it was as a result of the engineer not properly draining the system. It 
therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Ive thought about what IPA should do as a result. Mrs L has already made a claim through 
her home insurance policies to fix the damage. So, I think IPA should refund the £500 in 
excesses paid to fix the damage. I also think IPA should pay £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused because of the level of disruption caused to Mrs L by the 
leak and to get the damage repaired.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld.  I require 
Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
Refund the £500 in insurance excesses Mrs L paid to fix the damage.
Pay 8% simple interest on this from the date that the excesses were paid to the date that 
it refunds the money.
If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs L a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman