DRN-3567299
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains that New Wave Capital Limited trading as Capital on Tap is 
holding it responsible for a payment on its revolving credit account that it didnt make.
What happened
N disputes making an online payment of £4,900 on 9 May 2021. It says that its card details 
must have been compromised. This has resulted in significant borrowing that it is having 
difficulty paying. It has been in touch with the merchant which is willing to assist but only if 
contacted by Capital on Tap.
Capital on Tap said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The payment was authenticated with 
the 3DS (3D secure) verification. This meant that a one-time passcode was sent to the 
mobile phone registered to the account. And this had to be input on the merchant payment 
page. The director of N had told it that his mobile phone and laptop were secure and that no 
one else involved with N could have made this payment. So, it held N liable for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the payment 
was authenticated with Ns details. The information from Capital on Tap was that 3DS was 
used. Although the director had told Capital on Tap that his mobile was secure he now said 
that it didnt have a password. And while he said that he may he left this unattended at lunch 
he also said he always had it with him. His wife had access to the card, and he had also not 
mentioned to this service that there was a business manager at the time for N. The dispute 
wasnt raised until 18 July 2021 and the director could have reported this earlier.
N didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The director said it wasnt now 
easy to remember what happened. He had three mobile phones and was running a business 
so this might account for differences in his version of events. He did have someone else 
working at N at the time but let them go and so didnt mention this. He wanted to know why 
Capital on Tap wouldnt contact the merchant. This debt was causing difficulties for N.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated with security details. And if a payment wasnt 
authorised N wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened regarding this payment?
- Did the director authorise the payment on the account, or allow someone else to use the 
card details?
Im satisfied that this payment was authenticated with the details for Ns account. Ive seen 
an audit log showing that the payment was successfully authenticated. And so, the payment 
was verified for the merchant and Capital on Tap states that a one-time passcode was used 
for this as part of 3DS.
I need to think about whether N consented to and so authorised the payment. I note that 
there were no other reported fraudulent attempts to use the card. And this significant 
payment had been made without issue and based on what Capital on Tap says there was 
still an available credit limit of some £1,800 remaining on the account. This card was used 
after that for genuine payments. This payment was shown in a statement issued for the 
period ending 24 May 2021 with a minimum payment due by 15 June 2021 and which N 
made by direct debit. Ive also seen evidence that N was sent a text message about the 
balance and minimum payment on 25 May 2021. Im unclear why given the size of the 
payment N didnt report the dispute until 18 July 2021.
The director has said that no one else with access to the card and account made this 
payment. If another individual had been allowed access to the security information then N 
would in my view be fairly responsible to Capital on Tap for what that person did.
I appreciate that the directors memory of events may not be as good now. And so, I rely 
more heavily on what he said when he reported things. And that was clearly that his phone 
and laptop were kept secure, and his card wasnt lost. Its not impossible that an unknown 
third party discovered the card details. But there is no explanation of how that person would 
have been able to receive a security code  and especially given that the payment was 
timed at 01:28. I think it most likely that N consented to and so authorised this payment.
N wanted Capital on Tap to contact the merchant. But it took the view that the payment was 
authorised and there wasnt a valid basis to challenge it using chargeback as 3DS was used. 
So, I dont think it acted unreasonably in holding N responsible for this payment. 
I appreciate that this will be a disappointment for the director given whats at stake and what 
hes said about his own financial position.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman