DRN-4036551
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded her after she paid money as a 
deposit for a car that turned out to have been a scam. 
Mrs Ks husband had most of the dealings with the seller, and so I will refer to both Mrs K 
and her husband in what follows. However, the payment was made from Mrs Ks sole 
account and the complaint about Lloyds is therefore brought in her sole name.
What happened
In August 2022, Mrs K and her husband were looking to purchase a car, and found one 
advertised for sale on a social media platform.
The car looked suitable for their needs. It was relatively low mileage for its age  under 
30,000 miles for a 2015 plate. And the advert said the car had been well looked after. The 
advertised price was £2,999.
The seller said the car was being sold cheaply because they needed to sell quickly having 
started working away from home. And while the price was low, Mrs K says her relative had 
bought the same make of car for slightly less (albeit that other car had a different engine, 
was slightly older, had four times the mileage and was needing repairs). So, Mrs K says she 
thought it was a good deal but not too good to be true. 
The seller told them theyd had a lot of interest, but most were time wasters. The seller said 
to prove they were serious about buying the car, theyd need to pay a deposit up front and 
that this needed to be £750.
Mr and Mrs K say theyd not previously bought a car without seeing it first or bought through 
social media. Mrs Ks husband asked to speak to the seller by phone, and asked about 
viewing the car first, but the seller said neither was possible. The seller said they were 
working away from home, and the car couldnt be viewed until the weekend. 
The seller sent over the account details for the deposit payment. But when Mrs K entered 
these into her online banking, she received a warning that the name on the receiving 
account didnt match the name shed entered. 
Mrs K didnt make the payment and Mr K checked the discrepancy with the seller. The seller 
said her name had changed due to marriage. The seller said not to worry about it, that the 
account was right and that they should just send the payment.
Mrs K says she checked the sellers name on social media as far as she could. Although the 
sellers profile was private (as is common), she saw the profile picture matched that of the 
seller. She carried out a vehicle check, which confirmed the advertised car had no 
outstanding finance and that the vehicle details looked right. While Mrs K said theyd 
normally have asked a seller to send them a copy of the vehicles logbook, she didnt think 
theyd done so on this occasion.
It seems at this point Mr and Mrs K spoke with their daughter, who suggested sending a 
small initial payment and not telling the seller theyd done this  to see if the seller could then 
tell them how much had been received in the account.
Mrs K sent an initial payment of £1 and then checked with the seller how much shed 
received. When that was done, reassured that the person she was messaging had access to 
that bank account, Mrs K sent the remaining £749.
Later that day the seller asked them to pay the rest of the cost of the car, saying she was on 
her way to buy a new one and so needed the money now. Mrs Ks husband messaged the 
seller back refusing this. He explained that he thought the deposit amount of £750 was 
already a high amount, and the seller hadnt phoned as had been promised. 
That night Mrs K contacted Lloyds to report what had happened as being a suspected scam. 
Over the next few days, after several more messages with promises that the car was being 
delivered, the seller didnt turn up with the vehicle and stopped responding to messages.
Lloyds tried to recover Mrs Ks money from the receiving account. But unfortunately, by the 
time the scam had come to light, almost all the money had been removed and only £49.37 
remained to be recovered. This left her out of pocket by just over £700.
Lloyds is signed up to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from Authorised Push Payment scams 
(APP scams) such as this one. But Lloyds said it wouldnt refund Mrs K because she hadnt 
been sufficiently cautious when deciding to go ahead and make the payments and it hadnt 
been at fault. 
Mrs K didnt agree and referred a complaint about the outcome to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our Investigator looked into everything that had happened. But she didnt think Lloyds had 
treated Mrs K unfairly and didnt think the bank needed to refund the remaining unrecovered 
money. The Investigator thought the price was simply too good to be true. She said the price 
advertised was around one third of the normal market value for that car, taking into account 
its age and low mileage. 
She acknowledged that Mrs K and her husband had taken some steps to check everything 
was ok before sending the payment but didnt think this justified overlooking the price and 
the other signs that should have been a concern. So, the Investigator didnt think Lloyds 
need to refund Mrs K under the terms of the CRM Code.
Mrs K didnt accept the Investigators assessment. Her complaint has been referred to me to 
reach a final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator. Ill explain why.
Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs K and her husband. I can understand 
why Mrs K strongly wants her losses to be refunded to her.
However, while I have sympathy for Mrs K in what happened, I have to recognise that the 
principal cause of her losses here was the scammer who deceived her and her husband. 
I must also take into account that Lloyds has a primary obligation to carry out the payment 
instructions its customers give it. As a starting point, a customer is therefore assumed liable 
for a payment they have instructed to be made.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code can provide additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that the payments Mrs K made fall within the scope of the CRM 
Code. But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions 
allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully in some situations. 
Relevant here, this includes where the customer made a payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing that the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate, selling 
genuine goods, or that the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay.
Lloyds says this exception applies here. It reviewed Mrs Ks claim against the CRM Code, 
but it didnt think it was required to reimburse her. 
In deciding this complaint, I must first determine whether Lloyds has established this 
exception to reimbursement can be fairly applied  in other words, that Mrs K made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing this was legitimate. 
In determining these points, I have carefully considered everything Mrs K has submitted as 
well as the evidence submitted by the bank. 
Firstly, I think the price was too good to be true. From what Ive seen the market value for 
this vehicle at the time would, conservatively, be more than double what was being asked for 
it. I dont doubt the offer would have appeared very enticing, considering how cheap it was in 
comparison to the typical selling price. But a very low price can be one indicator that there is 
potentially something untoward about the seller or the proposed deal.
I know Mrs K has referred to a vehicle bought by her relative as being slightly lower in price 
and that this had helped reassure her. But from what Mrs K has described, that vehicle had 
a different engine type and had a much higher mileage than the advertised vehicle. The 
sellers explanation as to why the price was so low wasnt persuasive  not wanting 
timewasters and just looking to sell isnt an understandable reason to significantly 
undervalue the car. 
I understand Mrs Ks argument that sometimes vehicles can be bought at a lower than usual 
cost, but all things considered I think the low value of the car indicated higher than usual risk 
here and that this should have led to Mr and Mrs K to take especial care about whether or 
not to go ahead.
And besides the low price, there were other factors here that should have raised additional 
concerns about the legitimacy of the seller. 
When Mr and Mrs K tried to speak to the seller by phone and asked about viewing the car 
before making any payment the seller declined both requests. Mr and Mrs K noted also 
theyd never before committed to buying a car without seeing it first and would normally request the logbook first (which wasnt provided by the seller here). The steps they wanted 
to take were reasonable ones, and when the seller declined the requests, that should have 
raised a significant red-flag about the legitimacy of the sale.
Further, the cars location was advertised as being in Yorkshire, and the seller said they 
were working in Liverpool. But Mr and Mrs K were given an address in Essex to view the car. 
While its possible the seller could have come up with a plausible explanation for the 
discrepancy, Mr and Mrs K didnt query this.
Adding to the signs that all might not be as it seemed, the sellers name didnt match when 
the payment was first attempted  the seller said this was due to her change of name on 
marriage yet didnt provide her new name which would have enabled Mrs K to verify it 
against the payee account.
In short there were a number of factors indicating that things might not be as they seemed 
with the sale. Yet the seller was insisting on a considerable deposit payment (a full quarter of 
the total cost), despite there being very little to give Mr and Mrs K reassurance.
Sending a token sum initially (the payment of £1) reduced the risk that the seller had 
provided an incorrect account number by mistake. But it didnt address the main risk that the 
advert and seller were not legitimate.
Without the ability to carry out further checks to satisfy themselves the seller was legitimate I 
think Mr and Mrs K were putting a lot of trust in a stranger. Buying a car on social media, 
sight unseen, and at a considerable discount was always a big risk.
There were enough red flags in the price and other circumstances around the sale that I 
think Mr and Mrs K would reasonably have had real concerns. Mrs K makes the point that 
she wasnt sure what additional checks she could have done. But I think some of the things 
they asked the seller for were the right things to check (ie seeing the paperwork and the 
vehicle before parting with any money). When the seller gave excuses for this not being 
possible this was a significant red-flag. 
I think Mr and Mrs K, at that point, should have considered walking away from the deal  it 
was too good to be true, there were a number of discrepancies, and they couldnt carry out 
the checks theyd normally have done. Unfortunately, I think paying a very large deposit 
payment in that situation was an unreasonable and unnecessary risk to have taken.
With all of this in mind, and while I am very sorry to hear how Mrs K and her husband fell 
victim to this scam, I dont find that Mrs K had a reasonable basis for believing the payment 
was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom her and her 
husband transacted was legitimate.
In terms of the CRM Code, where a customer made a payment without having a reasonable 
basis for believing they were paying for legitimate goods from a legitimate seller, or that they 
were paying the person they believed they were, then their bank does not need to refund 
them for their loss even when this was due to a scam. I think Lloyds is entitled to rely on that 
here  I think it has done enough to establish that Mrs K didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing this was legitimate.
Based on what Lloyds could reasonably have known at the time, this payment wasnt one 
which would have particularly stood out as being at risk of being connected to a fraud or 
scam. With this in mind I dont think Lloyds needed to give an Effective Warning under the 
terms of the CRM Code, so I cannot find it at fault for not doing so here. And I dont think 
Lloyds needed to take specific steps at the time, such as intervening directly before it would release Mrs Ks payment. 
When Lloyds was made aware of what had happened it acted appropriately and tried to 
recover the funds, although only a small part remained  the majority having been moved on 
very quickly after the second payment had been made.
In short, I dont find Lloyds is to blame for Mrs Ks losses. I dont find it is liable to refund 
Mrs K under the terms of the CRM Code either. 
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs K 
and I am sorry she has lost out here. She and her husband were the victims of a cynical 
scam cruelly designed to defraud them of their money and provide nothing in return. 
I appreciate that theyve lost a significant amount because of what happened. But I can only 
look at what Lloyds was and is required to do  I have no power to consider the actions of 
the criminal scammers who were ultimately responsible for Mrs Ks loss. And I dont find 
Lloyds is required to refund her under the CRM Code, nor that the bank was at fault in 
making the payment Mrs K had instructed it to make or for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman