DRN-3096086
The complaint
Mr L complains that Capital Professional Limited mis-sold his critical illness with term 
assurance policy. 
All references to Capital include references to its tied agents authorised to sell policies on its 
behalf. 
What happened
In 2009 Mr L was looking for a new policy after he and his wife had to claim on their previous 
cover. Mr L contacted Capital to see if it could provide him with a new policy. A policy was 
found, and cover began in 2010. 
Sadly in 2020, Mr L tried to make a claim for critical illness and total and permanent disability 
(TPD) under the policy after he had an operation for a lump on his finger which led to his 
middle finger being partly amputated. The claim was declined. Mr L was unhappy with this 
decision. He says he was told he had TPD on this policy when he took it out because he 
wanted the same level of cover as his previous policy. So, he made a complaint about the 
sale to Capital. Capital considered the complaint but decided not to uphold it. It said the 
subsidiary firm that sold the policy wasnt authorised to provide advice. 
Mr L remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said that Capital had 
provided advice to him to purchase this policy and had subsequently mis-sold the policy to 
him as it didnt have TPD cover like his previous policy. And that when he spoke with the 
insurer, the call handler had told him that this policy shouldnt be given to builders. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think the 
evidence suggested Capitol provided any advice to Mr L to purchase this policy. And that the 
insurer had confirmed that it told Mr L in March 2021 it didnt offer TPD on an own-
occupation basis to builders. But the investigator said he thought this didnt mean Mr L 
shouldnt have the policy. 
The Investigator added that he had seen the previous policy Mr L had which his wife claimed 
on. And although this policy did have TPD, it was very restrictive on the types of claim it 
would accept for Mr L in the event he made a TPD claim. So, he didnt think it was likely Mr L 
wouldve been able to claim for his condition in 2020 if that policy was still active. As a result, 
he wasnt satisfied Mr L was specifically after a policy that had TPD. 
Mr L disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he was told by the insurer 
the policy wasnt suitable for him and it wasnt clearly explained that TPD wasnt included.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr L feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
In order to decide whether the policy was mis-sold I would need to be satisfied Capital did 
something wrong and Mr L lost out as a result.
Was Mr L provided with any advice by Capital?
Mr L said he cant remember exactly how he contacted Capital in 2009. Hes said it couldve 
been over the phone or online because he hadnt heard of them before. And that he had 
found e-mails from another insurer in 2009 which say he had authorised a financial advisor 
to obtain the insurance cover for him which he says shows he was provided with advice. 
I understand why Mr L thinks he was given advice to purchase this policy based upon the 
wording the other insurer used. But Im satisfied this type of wording is standard and refers 
to the employees job title at Capital. And as Capital mentioned in its response to Mr Ls 
complaint, the document Mr L is referring to also mentioned that he is responsible for 
checking the documentation to make sure its suitable. So, Im not persuaded this means he 
was given advice by Capital.  
Capital says this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
policy to Mr L personally or advise him to take it out. I dont know what was said during the 
sale, but Ive not seen anything such as a record of a discussion about Mr Ls needs and 
circumstances or a suitability check to show me clearly that it did make a personal 
recommendation to him or that it should have considered another product. 
Ive also considered a letter that was sent to Mr L from Capital in May 2009 when he was 
applying for a critical illness policy with another insurer. This letter made it clear that no 
advice was provided and that it was Mr L who specified the product, term, sum assured and 
if there were any additional options to be included. So, although this was for a different 
application, Im satisfied  on balance  Capital completed an execution only sale here and 
didnt provide any advice to Mr L on the suitability of the policy. Instead it found him a policy 
based upon the information he gave to it. 
Should Mr L have had a policy with TPD?
Mr L said he wanted a policy with TPD because after his wifes claim he wanted reassurance 
that he would be covered under this policy in the event he was unable to work. Hes said that 
he was also told by the insurer that he shouldnt have been given this policy because he was 
a builder. 
Ive reviewed the application form that was completed by Capital on Mr Ls behalf. It clearly 
says his occupation is a builder. So, Im not persuaded that this policy was unsuitable, or 
Mr L could never claim on the policy because he was a builder. I note the insurer has 
confirmed that Mr L wouldnt have been eligible to claim for TPD. But I think  on balance  
this shows TPD wasnt a priority for Mr L at the point of sale. Because if it was then he 
wouldve needed to find cover with another insurer as his occupation was clearly noted in the 
application. The insurer has also provided copies of the terms and conditions which were correctly 
addressed to Mr L at the point of sale. These clearly say he is covered for critical illness and 
term assurance. But TPD isnt mentioned in the covering letter. And the terms and conditions 
explain that plans described as critical illness and term assurance on the covering letter are 
not covered for TPD. Mr L has provided a copy of his former policy that does mention that 
TPD is an added benefit. But he has also provided a copy of a covering letter from another 
insurer in 2009 which said he was applying for life or earlier critical illness, and TPD wasnt 
mentioned on that letter. 
So, Im not satisfied TPD was a priority for him here. Because if it was, I wouldve expected 
him to notice it wasnt added to the cover summary and then query this with either the 
insurer of Capital. And because Im satisfied he wasnt provided with advice to take out this 
policy, and that Capital was acting upon his instructions only, I dont think I can fairly hold 
Capital responsible for TPD not being included here. 
So, Im not going to ask Capital to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman