DRN-3564166
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs L have complained that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group didnt make it 
clear enough that it would automatically renew several property insurance policies it had sold 
to them the year before.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs L bought a commercial property insurance policy by phone through a broker 
Adrian Flux in December 2020. 
In December 2021 Adrian Flux arranged for the policies to automatically renew. In January 
2022 Mrs L contacted Adrian Flux to make changes to one of the policies and said she was 
unhappy that Adrian Flux had automatically renewed policies without their express consent 
to do so. 
Adrian Flux didnt uphold the complaint. It said it set out under its Terms of Business the 
year before that it would renew the policies and that Mr D could opt out at any time. Before 
the renewal, it emailed Mr D to let him know it intended to renew the policies and would 
collect the renewal premium from the existing details. Mrs L had told Adrian Flux that they 
had received the correspondence by email but didnt read all of it. 
Mr D and Mrs L remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint. 
The Investigator thought Adrian Flux had notified Mr D and Mrs L that it would automatically 
renew the policies and also gave them sufficient notice around three weeks before the 
renewal date. So she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr D and Mrs L disagree. In summary they believe it isnt right for a business to 
automatically renew policies. They say a business should tell a customer it intends to do this 
in the sales call so the customer has the option to opt out then. They believe it isnt clear 
enough in the correspondence and buried in the small print.
So Mr D and Mrs L want an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt unusual for a business to include automatic renewal when providing or selling 
insurance policies. It can be a convenient way for customers to maintain cover and prevent 
the risk of not being insured. We dont think there is anything wrong with this provided the 
business had made it clear it intends to do this and gives a customer reasonable notice so 
that they can opt out. 
When Mr D and Mrs L bought cover through Adrian Flux in December 2020, it emailed the 
policy documents and its Terms of Business to them. 
In the covering letter Adrian Flux wrote:
Our Terms of Business are also included for your reference. Should we not hear 
from you within the next seven days we shall assume that you accept the terms and 
conditions of the policy and agree with all the information contained therein.
Within the cover letter Adrian Flux asked Mr D and Mrs L to read and check all of the 
information and let it know if anything wasnt correct.
Under the Terms of Business, Adrian Flux wrote in bold under the following heading:
Automatic renewals
For your protection, we reserve the right to automatically renew your policy up to five 
working days prior to the renewal date and take payment by the same payment 
method as this year. If we exercise this right we will write to you prior to the renewal 
date, informing you how much the premium will be and giving you time to let us know 
if you wish to opt out of the automatic renewal process.
We also reserve the right to automatically renew any additional policies that you take 
out with this policy, such as breakdown assistance cover.
On 6 December 2021 Adrian Flux emailed Mr D to provide details of the renewal premium. It 
wrote:
Thanks for choosing Adrian Flux for your home insurance last year. The policy for 
(risk address inserted here) is due to expire on 20/12/2021 at 23:59 and because 
we'll renew your policy automatically by credit card, you'll only need to call us if 
anything has changed or if any of our information is incorrect. Youll find your 
Renewal Notice overleafthis contains a summary of your cover along with a 
breakdown of the price of your policy and any extra benefits selected. Theres also 
important information about the automatic payment process.
It asked Mr D to let it know if anything had changed and wrote:
So what happens next?
Well automatically renew your insurance and email your new policy. In the 
meantime, please familiarise yourself with the Renewal Notice overleaf and ensure 
that the information contained in the enclosed Statement of Fact is correct.
If the automatic payment is declined, we will contact you in order to arrange an 
alternative payment method. Until we receive payment no cover will be in force 
beyond the expiry of your current policy. If you do not wish to renew this policy it is 
essential that you call us at least five working days before the renewal date.
So I think Adrian Flux made it clear to Mr D and Mrs L that it intended to renew the policies 
in December 2020  and gave them a further opportunity to opt out in good time before the 
renewal date of 21 December 2021 on 6 December 2021. The onus is on a customer to read 
and check the policy documentation they receive when they purchase a policy  so that if 
there is anything they are unhappy about or that needs changing, this can be done  or the 
policy can be cancelled within the cooling off period. 
I understand Mr D and Mrs L will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Adrian Flux 
acted reasonably and in line with the Terms of Business it provided when Mr D and Mrs L 
bought the policies. This means Im not upholding their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman