DRN-2567788
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund a transaction 
made on his account which he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 19 December 2018 a transaction was made from Mr Ss Halifax account for £5960 via an 
online banking transfer. Mr S didnt realise the payment was made until he logged into his 
account almost five months later.
Mr S reported the disputed transaction to Halifax who dealt with the matter as a payment in 
error rather than an unauthorised transaction. It asked for the money to be recalled from the 
third party bank account, but no funds remained.
Mr S was unhappy with this response as he told Halifax that the payment wasnt an error but 
that hed not authorised it.
An investigation by Halifax discovered that Mr Ss online banking was accessed the day 
before the transaction was made and his login security information was reset. The 
transaction was then made the following day. It found that no further activity was recorded 
on the account until Mr S logged into it almost five months later. During this login it says 
Mr S knew the account information and password but changed the memorable information 
used to access the account.
Halifax decided to decline Mr Ss fraud claim as it didnt think there was a reasonable 
explanation as to how a third party could have accessed the account and made the 
transaction. It said that Mr S didnt recall accessing his account and resetting his security 
information the day before the transaction was made. Yet he was able to log on using the 
correct password five months later. Halifax said that this would suggest that Mr S knew the 
password which had been changed by the alleged fraudster before the transaction. It also 
added that fraudsters would spend as much as they can, but in this case only one 
transaction was made, and the remaining balance was left untouched. It did however offer 
£84 in compensation for the inconvenience of poor customer service and calls made.
Mr S was unhappy with Halifaxs decision not to refund the transaction, so he came to our 
service to look into things. An Investigator here looked into his complaint and decidedfrom 
the evidence hed been presented withthat its more likely than not Mr S authorised the 
transaction. He concluded:
Its unusual that a fraudster would only remove less than half the balance of an 
account when they have full access to it. Additionally, it was unusual for them to wait 
until the following dayafter the security information was resetto remove the 
money.
There were no reasonable explanations as to how someone could have accessed 
Mr Ss mobile telephone in order to complete the verification processes.
Mr S was aware of the password, which he says hadnt been changed by him, when 
logging into the account around five months later.
Mr S didnt agree with the Investigators opinion as he maintained that he hadnt authorised 
the transaction. As Mr S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The Payment Services Regulations 2017 broadly state that Halifax are allowed to hold Mr S 
responsible for any transaction he disputes if he authorised that transaction or didnt take 
reasonable steps to keep his account safe. So I must first determine whetheron the 
balance of probabilitiesMr S authorised the transaction in dispute.
Firstly, Ive considered the suspicious activity that occurred on the account the day before 
the disputed transaction was made. Mr S has provided testimony that he doesnt recall 
logging onto his online banking and changing the security information; including memorable 
information and password to the account. So, Ive gone on to consider if its more likely than 
not that a third party could have carried this act out considering the available evidence.
As the accounts security information was reset, I acknowledge that the information required 
to initiate this process could have easily been accessible to a third party as all theyd need is 
the username Mr S uses to access his account. But Halifax has provided evidence that an 
authentication call was made to the consumers mobile telephone in order to reset the 
security information for the account. This would have required the person carrying out this 
process having access to Mr Ss personal mobile telephone, answering the call and entering 
the code visible on the login screen. I think this limits the number of people that could have 
been responsible for the reset of information as Mr S hadnt lost his phone or had it stolen at 
the time. The person also would have needed to know the username for the account in 
addition to having access to his phone.
This does create the possibility that someone close to Mr S could have known his username 
and have access to his phone to carry out the password reset. But there are other factors to 
consider here that persuade me that this isnt the more likely scenario.
Following the password reset a new payee was created, and an additional security phone 
call is made to Mr Ss mobile telephone requiring a code to be input again. This is carried out 
successfully and an SMS message is then sent to Mr S informing him of the new payee 
being set up. Mr S has confirmed that he received this message from looking through his 
device and has provided a screenshot of it. Mr S has confirmed that no onenot even his 
immediate familyknew the security PIN for his phone. And he also recollects receiving 
messages from Halifax at the time, so Im persuaded that it more likely than not that he 
received this message. Having said this, Im unsure why this didnt prompt Mr S to contact 
Halifax and question why a new payee was being set up on his account when hed not done 
this himself.
Following the creation of a new payee, the disputed payment wasnt made until the following 
morning which is very unusual if a third party had gone to the effort of setting up the new 
payee the night before. It also doesnt fit a typical pattern of fraud when considering that the 
amount of the transaction was very specific and was less than half of the balance of the 
account at the time. Fraudsters, or even opportunists, would likely try to empty the balance 
of an account theyd successfully accessed. And when considering Mr Ss claim that he 
hadnt logged on until five months after the transaction, there were plenty of opportunities 
here for someone to continue making payments from the account over a lengthy period. 
In addition to the above, when Mr S logged into his account five months later he used the 
correct password to access the account. This would suggest that Mr S either changed the 
password himself or obtained it from someone hed authorised to access the account. But as 
Mr S has remained adamant that he didnt provide anyone else the security information for 
his account, I cant see any other likely explanation other that Mr S being the one who 
changed the password on the account.
Whilst I cant be certain what happened in the circumstances of this complaint, the evidence 
leads me to conclude that it is more likely than not that Mr S authorised the transaction hes disputed, and it follows that its not fair or reasonable to hold Halifax responsible for the 
amount.
Whilst Im aware that Halifax has offered Mr S compensation for poor customer service, as 
Ive found that Mr S is more likely than not to have authorised this payment then Ill leave it 
up to him to approach the bank and see if this offer is still available  if it hasnt already been 
paid.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman