DRN-4299379
The complaint
Mr K complains about the advice given by Tuto Money Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr K approached Tuto Money in 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Tuto Money completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ks circumstances and 
objectives. Tuto Money also carried out an assessment of Mr Ks attitude to risk, which it 
initially deemed to be 2/3 out of 10. After discussions with Mr K it moved it up to 4 or lowest 
medium. It was also recorded that Mr K could tolerate very little to no losses in terms of his 
pension fund. 
On 29 September 2017, Tuto Money advised Mr K to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension and draw his funds via Flexible Access Drawdown. The suitability report 
said the reasons for this recommendation were flexibility of income, the ability to meet his 
short-term and long-term income needs, future tax-free cash could increase as the fund 
does and any remaining funds could be passed onto his beneficiaries.
Alongside the recommendation to transfer his DB pension of approximately £316,000, Mr K 
was also advised to transfer a personal pension valued at about £76,000.
Mr K complained via professional representatives on 8 February 2023 to Tuto Money about 
the suitability of the transfer advice regarding the DB pension because Mr Ks circumstances 
showed that capital preservation was a priority. And in transferring his guaranteed benefits 
were put at risk.
Tuto Money didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said Mr Ks key objectives werent achievable 
in the scheme and that the advice was suitable. It also said it had run a loss calculation 
without prejudice and Mr K was better off for having transferred.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
Tuto Money to pay compensation. The investigator said that at the time there was no 
compelling reason to transfer Mr Ks DB pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tuto Money's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tuto Money 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ks best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Tuto Money carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Ks pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr K was age 58 at the time of the advice and was recently unemployed as hed had to give 
up work to look after his 88 year old mother who was unwell. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Ks benefits at age 65 was 8.69% or 6.31% without a spouses pension. Mr K 
wasnt married and had no dependents. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.3% per year for six years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ks 
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr K giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was 8.69% or 6.31% without a spouses pension which is relevant to Mr K, I think Mr K was 
likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
Tuto Money has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr K wouldve been able to 
meet his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but Tuto Moneys 
models didnt include a number of factors such as his savings, carers allowance, 
expenditure and living arrangements, whether his mother would meet some of the costs, and 
no projection of expenditure in retirement. Furthermore they relied on growth at 4.14% 
before retirement and 5% after both of which are higher than the expected growth for 
someone of a lowest medium profile.
Also, as Tuto Money will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and 
so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic 
in this regard in the long term rather than projecting returns forward, particularly over such a 
long period of time.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ks best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Tuto 
Money has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer 
is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Tuto Money recommended the transfer based on two main priorities  to provide a flexible 
income of around £18,000 and for more flexible death benefits.
Tuto Money said Mr Ks income requirement couldnt be met by remaining within the DB 
scheme. However, given Mr K had said he couldnt afford to lose any of his pension and 
given his circumstances, I dont think transferring his only source of guaranteed benefits was 
appropriate.
Mr K had recently stopped working to care for his mother. And he wished to have some 
income to cover his expenses. Alongside the DB pension, Tuto Money also advised Mr K to 
switch a personal pension to allow more flexible access.
The pension was worth approximately £76,000 and this wouldve been sufficient to cover Mr 
Ks expected expenditure for four years. Mr K could then have kept in place his DB pension 
and safeguarded benefits and could plan around any change in circumstances in that time. 
Sadly Mr Ks Mum passed away approximately 18 months after the advice was given. And 
had Mr K took the above action, returning to work couldve allowed him to keep his DB 
pension in place until retirement. Even if he didnt wish to return to work, taking his benefits 
after his personal pension had been exhausted wouldve lessened any actuarial reductions. 
And the likely adverse performance (when compared to staying in the DB scheme) suffered 
on transfer.
There was another approach that wouldve met Mr Ks income requirements in the short 
term whilst allowing him to keep his safeguarded benefits in place but available to use 
flexibly in the future through transfer if required. There was no demonstratable need to 
transfer the benefits at the time of advice. Tuto Money didnt consider this course of action and I dont think theyve demonstrated that 
transferring Mr Ks DB pension was in his best interests.
Given Mr Ks circumstances I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr 
K to give up his guaranteed benefits then when he didnt know what his needs in retirement 
would be. If Mr K later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so 
closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Mr K didnt have a spouse or dependant but had siblings he wished to leave any remaining 
funds too. So I can see the attraction to moving from the DB scheme to a personal pension 
in terms of the death benefit options available.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr K might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr K about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Tuto Money 
explored to what extent Mr K was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits. 
Mr K was reliant on this pension for income in retirement and I think this ought to have been 
emphasised instead of flexibility of death benefits that may not even be realised. Mr Ks  
siblings werent dependant on him, so I think this was at most a nice to have and should not 
have been a key reason to recommend transferring safeguarded benefits.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr K. 
Summary
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr K was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr K was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr K couldve met his income needs for some years 
before needing to make a decision on how to use his DB scheme. And in that time his 
circumstances couldve (and did) change. Transferring was an irreversible decision that 
more likely than not will make Mr K worse off in retirement  something he said he couldnt 
afford.
So, I think Tuto Money shouldve advised Mr K to remain in his DB scheme. Of course, I 
have to consider whether Mr K would've gone ahead anyway, against Tuto Money's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr K wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Tuto Moneys advice. I say this because Mr K 
was an inexperienced investor with a lowest medium attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of Mr Ks retirement provision. So, if Tuto Money had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Tuto Money should compensate Mr K for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr K, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr K would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Tuto Money must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, although Mr K has accessed his pension benefits, hes only been able to do 
because of the unsuitable advice. Hes told us that although his mother passed away in April 
2019, hed chosen not to return to work immediately given his ability to draw funds from his 
pension. He has however started to look for work to ease the pressure on his finances. Had 
suitable advice been given and Mr K had remained in his DB pension, I dont think he 
wouldve taken benefits before his normal retirement age. So the calculation should be made 
at age 65 as per the standard assumption in the guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ks acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tuto Money should:
calculate and offer Mr K redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr K before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr K receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr K accepts Tuto Moneys offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr K for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ks end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr K as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tuto Money 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Ks likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that thebusiness pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Tuto Money Limited to 
pay Mr K the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I also recommend that 
Tuto Money Limited pays Mr K the balance.
If Mr K accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Tuto Money Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr K can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr K may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman