DRN-2634504
The complaint
Mrs W complains on behalf of her mother, Mrs B, for whom she holds power of attorney. 
Shes unhappy about how Santander UK Plc (Santander) handled her instructions to close 
Mrs Bs bank accounts and transfer the balance to another bank.
What happened
In September 2020, Mrs W visited a branch of Santander to close two accounts held by 
Mrs B, and to transfer the balance to another bank. She was given a Mini-statement for 
both accounts which showed the money had been sent to the recipient account via faster 
payment. 
Mrs W contacted the recipient bank around a week later to discuss options for placing the 
large sum of money. She learnt it hadnt received the funds. 
Mrs W contacted Santander and it confirmed the smaller payment had been successfully 
sent to the recipient bank, but the payment for the larger amount had been cancelled by 
Santander. A cheque was on its way to Mrs W instead.
Mrs W complained to Santander about this and said shed brought everything it asked for 
when she went into the branch to close Mrs Bs accounts. Santander said the larger 
payment was flagged for additional security checks and it subsequently issued a cheque. It 
apologised the branch staff didnt inform Mrs W payments were subject to security checks 
and offered £100 for this error.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ws concerns and thought the compensation offered by 
Santander didnt go far enough. She explained Mrs B overheard Mrs Ws conversation with 
Santander when it was trying to establish what had happened. Mrs B thought her life savings 
had been lost and this made her extremely anxious. The investigator concluded while we 
couldnt tell Santander to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced 
by Mrs W, an additional £100 was warranted to recognise the impact it had on Mrs B. 
Santander agrees with the investigators findings, but Mrs W has asked for the matter to be 
reviewed. In summary, she feels the investigators recommendation is influenced by the fact 
she didnt specify an amount when she was asked about it. Mrs W also says if Mrs B had the 
capacity to bring the complaint to us, she would have been very distressed with the 
paperwork she would have needed to provide. She would like £500 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs W feels very strongly about the complaint. Although Ive only summarised 
the background and arguments above, so not everything that happened is detailed, Id like to 
reassure her and Santander that Ive read and considered everything in its entirety.
It is clear things didnt go as they should have. Santander already accepts it should have 
informed Mrs W the payments shed arranged were subject to security checks. It has told us 
the branch staff should have also informed her its policy was to issue a cheque when 
processing an account closure involving a Power of Attorney. 
The issue for me to consider is whether the compensation Santander has offered is a fair 
reflection of the impact of its error. 
Id like to reassure Mrs W Ive reviewed this complaint independent of our investigators 
conclusions and in the full knowledge of the compensation shes requested.
When looking at making a financial award for financial loss or for distress and/or 
inconvenience caused by a business to their customer, I can make awards for complainants. 
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook (available online). 
In this case, Mrs W is appointed under a power of attorney to act for Mrs B. And while Mrs W 
is bringing the complaint, Mrs B is the complainant as shes the customer of Santander. 
While I recognise Mrs W has spent time overseeing the matter and has told us it has made 
her ill, I need to think about how Mrs B has been impacted by Santanders actions.
Mrs W has said the funds would have continued to remain with Santander had she not 
checked with the recipient bank. But I can see the cheque was already on its way to her 
when she got back in touch with Santander. To the extent that incorrect information was 
given, and this caused an additional delay in accessing the funds, Im satisfied £100 
compensation that Santanders already offered is a fair reflection of the inconvenience this 
caused. But that is not the end of the matter. 
Mrs W has told us Mrs B overheard her conversation with Santander when it was trying to 
establish what had happened to the payment. Ive listened to the call recording. Mrs Ws 
initial worry and the subsequent frustration can be heard during the call. I think this in turn 
would have upset Mrs B. So, its right Santander recognises this.
I think the distress Mrs W experienced during the nearly 45-minute call in turn caused Mrs B 
distress. The payment hadnt gone as per Mrs Ws instructions and the agent acknowledged 
her dissatisfaction and logged a complaint. But Im mindful he was able to provide some 
answers during the call. He was able to confirm the funds werent lost. So, Mrs Bs savings 
hadnt gone missing as she and Mrs W might have initially thought. He was also able to 
confirm a cheque had already been sent to Mrs W. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs W has said regarding the distress Mrs B would have 
experienced if she had the capacity to bring the complaint to us. I acknowledge Mrs Ws 
concerns. But when things go wrong, we look at what happened and the impact thats had 
rather than what might have happened. So, I havent taken a hypothetical impact into 
account when considering this complaint. Having considered the matter carefully, I consider 
an additional award of £100 is appropriate in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs B £200 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused her. 
If the cheque for £100 it originally offered has already been cashed, Santander can take this 
into account.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc and require it 
to pay Mrs B compensation in accordance with what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W, on behalf 
of Mrs B, to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman