DRN-3811315
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim they made under their home 
insurance policy.
References to QIC include its agents.
What happened
In early 2022, an electrician visited Mr and Mrs Ts home to fix their grill which is attached to 
their oven. To fix the grill, the electrician had to pull out the whole of the top oven and grill. 
He put this on a trestle table, which collapsed due to the weight of the appliance. It damaged 
a drawer and made gouges in the wooden floor.
The electrician admitted liability and contacted his insurance company who offered to settle 
the claim by paying Mr and Mrs T cash. However, Mrs T says the amount they offered 
wasnt enough to cover the damage. So, in mid-2022, Mr and Mrs T raised a claim under 
their own home insurance policy with QIC.
After sending a surveyor around to Mr and Mrs Ts property, QIC decided to decline their 
claim. It said the damage was excluded under the terms of the policy.
Mr and Mrs T complained to QIC, but it maintained its position. It said it had considered the 
claim under the additional accidental damage section of the policy, but an exclusion applied 
because the damage had occurred during repairs to the building. QIC said that as the cooker 
was a permanent fixture and not free-standing it was categorised under Mr and Mrs Ts 
buildings cover. 
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy, so they asked our service to consider their complaint. Our 
investigator looked into their concerns but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
thought it was reasonable for QIC to have declined the claim, in line with the terms of the 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with our investigators outcome. Mrs T said that the oven can be 
easily removed, so should be considered under the contents section of the policy, rather 
than the buildings section. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
In declining the claim, QIC has referred to an exclusion in the policys terms and conditions 
found under the additional accidental damage to the buildings section of the policy. This 
says that QIC doesnt cover loss or damage as a result of any alterations, extensions, 
renovations or repairs to the buildings.
Under the definition of buildings in the policy booklet it says: Buildings also includes the 
permanent fixtures and fittings in or mounted upon the buildings that could not easily be 
removed and reused
Mrs T says the oven/grill can easily be removed, so the claim should be considered under 
the contents section of the policy, rather than the buildings section. However, shes also 
confirmed that the cooker is integrated. And photographs show that it is embedded within the 
kitchen units. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for QIC to have concluded that it couldnt 
easily be removed, and so falls under the definition of buildings in the policy. It follows, that 
I think it was fair for QIC to have considered Mr and Mrs Ts claim under the buildings 
section, rather than the contents section of the policy.
Given the circumstances in which the damage occurred, I also think it was reasonable for 
QIC to have determined that the exclusion applied and declined the claim.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs T, but I think QIC has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with the terms of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman