DRN-3806588
The complaint
Mr B complains about the administration of an income payment from his Self-Invested 
Pension Plan (SIPP) by IPS Pensions Limited (IPS) (trading as James Hay Partnership).
He says IPS failed to process his income payment in time for the end of the tax year. He 
complains it didnt inform him that it required settlement of any outstanding fees before 
making the payment.
Mr B also complains that IPS acted against his instructions and incorrectly made the income 
payment in June 2021, which fell in the next tax year. He says he paid additional tax as a 
result.
What happened
In 2019 Mr B started drawing pension benefits from his SIPP.
On 17 March 2020 Mr B contacted IPS in respect of a failed income payment. IPS explained 
this had occurred because there were outstanding fees and so there were insufficient funds 
in his trustee cash account. It agreed to prefund the fees so that the income payment could 
be made.
The income payment was made on 18 March 2020.
On 11 February 2021 IPS issued an annual SIPP review to Mr B which detailed the charges 
applicable to his plan. 
In February 2021 Mr B gave instructions, via his investment manager, for an income 
payment of £35,000 to be paid to him from his SIPP.
On around 25 February 2021, £35,000 was cleared by his investment manager to his cash 
account. 
On 26 February 2021 an outstanding fee of £154.80 was debited from the cash account 
which left less than £35,000 in the account.
The annual income payment of £35,000 then failed, due to insufficient funding. 
In March 2021 Mr B received a payslip indicating his payment had been processed and the 
appropriate tax had been deducted. 
On 26 March 2021 Mr B contacted IPS, via a secure message, to query why he hadnt 
received his income payment despite having received a payslip for the income in question.
On 31 March 2021 Mr B contacted IPS again regarding the outstanding income payment. 
IPS informed him that the payment hadnt been made because of insufficient funding due to 
fees that were outstanding on his account.
Mr B made a complaint to IPS on 31 March 2021. He said having given the instruction for his 
income to be paid, he had then received a payslip indicating the payment had been made. 
So, Mr B said he hadnt been aware there was any issue with the payment until he noticed it 
hadnt been received in his bank account. 
Mr B emailed IPS on 1 April 2021 to inform it that he had arranged for monies to be 
transferred on that day to pay the outstanding fees, in order that his income payment could 
go through before the end of that tax year. 
On 7 April 2021 £200 cleared the trustee cash account leaving a cash balance which was 
higher than £35,000. 
IPS responded to Mr B on 13 April 2021 acknowledging his complaint. It said the payment 
had failed because of insufficient funds in the trustee cash account. It said when an income 
payment was requested its payroll team would try to make the payment until the payroll cut-
off date. IPS said the relevant cut-off date here was 18 March 2021 so the money wouldnt 
be paid that tax year. It said that the payment would need to be re-scheduled as an ad-hoc 
payment for the next available payment date, which was the 5 May 2021.
Mr B emailed IPS on 14 April 2021 and said he was unhappy with the response he had 
received. He said IPS should ensure that the drawdown payment it had failed to make in 
March should be made in that month, as the funds were available to make the payment. 
On the same day IPS issued a response to Mr B in respect of his complaint about the failed 
income payment of 1 March 2021. It didnt uphold his complaint. 
It noted the terms and conditions of Mr Bs SIPP outlined that it was the members, or their 
advisers, responsibility to monitor the SIPP bank account to cover income or fees that 
became due. 
IPS said the reason the income hadnt been paid to Mr B was because his annual drawdown 
fee had become payable and that had resulted in insufficient funds in his trustee cash 
account to meet his income payment.
It suggested that Mr B could use an alert facility, available through its website, to set up an 
alert which would let him know, via email, if the balance of his SIPP bank account dropped 
below a specified level.
On 28 April 2021 Mr B sent an email message to IPS complaining that he hadnt received a 
response and he also hadnt received the drawdown payment he had instructed IPS to 
make.  
There was then some further correspondence between Mr B and IPS. 
On 17 June 2021 IPS contacted Mr B and advised him that the income payment had been 
processed. It said it had prefunded his account to ensure the payment would go through, but 
he would need to disinvest to repay that amount.  
Mr B responded the same day asking for the payment to be cancelled as he said it would 
result in additional tax being paid. 
On 18 June 2021 the income payment was paid to Mr B with a 20 percent deduction for tax. 
Further correspondence was sent by Mr B complaining about the initial missed income 
payment and the payment made in June 2021. IPS responded and said it had been unable 
to cancel the June payment as it hadnt been notified in time. 
Mr B then referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator considered his complaint 
but didnt think it should be upheld. 
The investigator said it was the second time Mr B had experienced an issue with his income 
payment as he had contacted IPS in March 2020 in respect of an income payment which 
hadnt gone through. He noted that Mr B had been informed this was because a fee charged 
to the account had caused his SIPP bank account to be overdrawn and the income payment 
had therefore not gone through. 
The investigator noted this had been resolved by IPS prefunding his account so that the 
payment could go through, but he said this was something that it had offered to do on that occasion and wasnt part of the standard service it provided. He also said that IPS had 
provided Mr B with documentation to set up a standing order to fund future fees. 
The investigator said that the way the SIPP worked was that IPS carried out the instructions 
of the SIPP holder, or their representative. He also said that it didnt monitor the SIPP bank 
account for the holder. The investigator was satisfied it was the account holders 
responsibility to ensure the account was in credit as this was outlined clearly in the terms 
and conditions and in the benefits form Mr B had signed when he set up the first income 
payment. 
The investigator concluded that IPS had made the income payment in June 2021 because 
Mr B had continued to ask for that payment to be made.  
Overall, he concluded that the nature of Mr Bs pension plan meant that it was his, or his 
advisers responsibility to ensure the account was setup so that it could make payments 
when needed.  And he also took into account that this was the second time Mr B had 
experienced a failed income payment.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. In summary he said he didnt think the 
investigator had given sufficient weight to the fact IPS had sent him a payslip which had led 
him to believe his income payment had been made. Mr B has said if the payslip hadnt been 
sent to him, he would have contacted IPS earlier and made a payment to settle the 
outstanding fees.   
Mr B also said that the income payment in June 2021 was made against his wishes. He 
acknowledged his initial reaction was to request that the payment should still be made. 
However, he said that IPSs letter of 7 June 2021 specifically stated that that the drawdown 
payment would not be paid without an ad-hoc payment request being raised online. So, he 
questioned why IPS had gone ahead and made the payment later in June, without having an 
online request. 
He noted IPS had pre-funded his cash account so that the income payment could go through 
in June but had not done so in March when he had made the original request.
As no agreement could be reached Mr Bs complaint was referred to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B holds a Self-Invested Pension Plan (SIPP) with IPS which is a type of pension product 
that is self-managed. The fees payable under the SIPP are set out in the SIPP fee schedule. 
And any fees owed by the SIPP holder are collected directly from the SIPP trustee cash 
account when sufficient funds are available. 
IPS has explained that it doesnt monitor or manage this cash account as that is the 
responsibility of the SIPP holder. There is also no overdraft facility on the cash account, 
which means if there is insufficient funding, any payments will fail and will only be processed 
once sufficient funding becomes available, up until the relevant cut-off date.
I am satisfied on balance that the terms and conditions of the SIPP (available on the 
businesss website) make it clear that the SIPP bank account has to be kept in credit to 
cover fees and expenses and that if the balance is insufficient to make an income payment, 
no payment, or part payment, will be made. They say:
If there is an insufficient balance in your SIPP bank account to make a payment in full, no 
payment (or part payment) will be made. If this happens, we may try again to make the 
payment although we shall not be obliged to try again.  and 
Your SIPP bank account must be kept in credit to pay our charges, expenses, third party 
charges and costs (including Adviser charges), tax charges, levies or fees incurred in 
relation to the administration of your SIPP and the investments held within it. 
and
Your SIPP Bank Account must always be kept in credit. Therefore, if your SIPP Bank 
Account goes into a debit balance you must:
1) immediately pay funds into the SIPP Pooled Bank Account so that your SIPP Bank 
Account is brought back into credit; and
2) pay any costs, charges and fees incurred and due.
I can also see that when Mr B completed his benefit payment form in January 2019 it was 
made clear on that form that there were certain limitations and conditions in relation to the 
payment of income. It said:
Income payments are always made on a set business day of the month. Please refer to the 
payroll cut off dates page on our website at www.jameshay.co.uk for details.
If you wish to start taking an income from your SIPP, you must notify us at least 15 business 
days before the date the first income payment is to be made.
PLEASE NOTE: If there is Insufficient money in your SIPP bank account, it may mean 
that your Income payments cannot be paid on time. Your SIPP bank account does not 
have an overdraft facility. (original emphasis) 
So, I therefore think that IPS was properly implementing the terms and conditions of the plan 
and that these had been adequately set out to Mr B.
Income payment request from 2020 
I can see that in the past, in March 2020, Mr B contacted IPS as he hadnt received an 
income payment. It was explained on that previous occasion this was because a fee was 
outstanding on his cash account. Mr B then was advised by IPS as to how he could move 
monies to pay the fees and that he could set up a standing order for the next year, as the 
next fees would become due in June 2020. IPS sent him a form which he could use to do 
this.
On that occasion IPS agreed to pre-fund the outstanding fee to allow the income payment to 
go through
So, I am satisfied that Mr B had previously been made aware of the importance of keeping 
the cash account in credit and he had already experienced an issue with his income 
payment, as a result of insufficient funds being in that account. 
Why didnt Mr Bs income payment go through in March 2020?
I am satisfied on balance that the payment wasnt made in March because there were 
insufficient funds in the cash account. Although a transfer of £35,000 was made, once the 
outstanding deductions for fees were taken from that amount, there was insufficient 
remaining for the full income payment to be made. And I am satisfied on balance that the 
terms of the SIPP provided that in those circumstances neither a full nor part income 
payment would be made. I consider this is also supported by it being made clear in the terms 
that the SIPP bank  had to be in credit in order to pay for the relevant charges and fees.
I note that once the payment had failed IPS would keep trying to make payment until the cut-
off date, which in this case was 18 March 2021.I also note that by the time Mr B contacted IPS on 26 March 2021 the cut-off date had 
already passed, which meant that it was unable to make that payment for that period, so the 
payment failed. And because of the set cut-off dates, any new income payment request 
wouldnt then be actioned within that tax year.      
Why did Mr B receive a payslip indicating the income had been paid and what was the 
impact?
IPS has explained that the administration of the income payment forms was carried out by a 
third party and that those forms were automatically issued once the request had been made. 
I appreciate this wasnt helpful to Mr B because as he received a payslip he believed the 
payment had been made. However, I have to take into account that IPS would be dealing 
with a large number of these requests, so it had to put in place a process that could 
administer large numbers of payments. How, it decided to do this was a commercial 
decision, which is a matter for IPS. But I dont in any case consider on balance that 
outsourcing that function was an unreasonable way of achieving this in the circumstances.  
Although I think that receiving the payslip would have suggested that the income payment 
had been made, Mr B always had the option to check and confirm this via his bank account. 
And, in any event, as I have set out above, I consider the ultimate cause of the failed 
payment was the lack of funds in his cash account, which was Mr Bs responsibility.  
Why didnt IPS contact Mr B and ask him to transfer money into his cash account so that his 
income payment would go through?
Mr B has pointed out that there was a relatively small amount outstanding in respect of fees, 
so he considers it unreasonable that this prevented his £35,000 income payment from going 
through. He says IPS should have contacted him and asked him to settle the fees, so that 
the income payment could be made.
I have to take into account the nature of the product when considering what is a reasonable 
expectation in respect of the service provided by IPS. This is a self- invested personal 
pension plan. As I have said it is a self-managed product, so I consider it was the 
responsibility of the SIPP holder, Mr B, to ensure that everything was in place to enable his 
income payment to be made. And I also think it had been made clear in the relevant product 
documentation that the SIPP holder had to ensure their cash account had sufficient credit for 
such payments to be made.
I can also see that Mr B had been issued with a SIPP review document in January 2021 
which showed the charges that had been previously deducted from the cash account and 
the remaining balance. So, I think Mr B was provided with information about the fees and   I 
consider he could access his account to see whether he needed to top it up.
Why did IPS make an income payment in June 2021, given the March 2021 payment had 
failed?
Mr B has questioned why the income payment was made in June 2021, even though it had 
previously failed.  
He points out that in its letter of 7 June 2021 IPS stated that once the cut-off date had 
passed, then the income payment would be cancelled.  In that letter it said:
After the next month cut-off date is passed, the income that was due for the previous month 
is automatically cancelled. Should the member still require for this income to be paid, then 
an ad-hoc payment request must be raised online.
I can see that in his email of 14 April 2021 Mr B asked for the income payment to be made 
and this was reiterated in his email of 28 April 2021. Mr B also wrote to IPS on 5 May 2021 
and said he still hadnt received his drawdown payment despite making several requests to 
its benefits team to make sure this was paid at the end of April. At the end of that letter Mr B 
asked that the drawdown payment be made. So, I consider that IPS was ultimately acting on Mr Bs instructions, which were made after 
his original request had been cancelled. I think the letter of 7 June was responding to 
questions raised by Mr B about his complaint in relation to the failed income payment in 
March and it set out the standard process. However, I consider IPS facilitated the June 
income payment in order to try and resolve the complaint that had been made by Mr B about 
a failed income payment, together with the repeated requests for the income payment to still 
be made. 
I note that Mr B asked IPS to stop the payment on 17 June, but IPS said it was unable to do 
so at such short notice and the income payment was then made on 18 June. Given the 
payment was made the next day, it appears that the payment process was already well 
underway, so it doesnt seem unreasonable that additional notice was required to stop it 
from going ahead.  
Summary 
While I appreciate that Mr B is disappointed with his income payment not being made in the 
tax year ending 2021, I have to consider whether IPS did anything wrong here. Overall, I 
dont consider that it did and unfortunately by the time the problem was identified, it was too 
late to make the payment within that tax year. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against IPS Pensions Limited (trading as James Hay 
Partnership).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman