DRN-3149183
The complaint
Mr M complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim he made on a corporate 
income protection policy.
What happened
Mr M was insured under his employers group income protection policy. Mr M was employed 
as a director. The policy provided Mr M with cover for his own occupation. The specified 
deferred period was 26 weeks.
On 30 July 2019, Mr M was signed off from work with stress due to his wife suffering from a 
serious, degenerative illness. Mr M fulfilled significant caring responsibilities for his wife. He 
returned to work briefly on 9 September 2019 but was signed off again a short while later on 
18 September 2019.  In November 2019, Mr Ms employer made a claim on his behalf on the 
income protection policy. 
Unum assessed Mr Ms claim. It agreed to link Mr Ms two periods of absence and 
concluded that his deferred period should start from 30 July 2019. It reviewed the medical 
evidence provided by Mr Ms GP and it ultimately decided to turn down the claim. Unum 
acknowledged Mr M was suffering from a reactive depressive episode. But it noted that the 
GP hadnt carried out a mental state examination; hadnt referred Mr M to mental health 
services; hadnt made a diagnosis of clinical depression and hadnt prescribed Mr M with any 
medication. So it didnt conclude there was evidence that Mr M had a significant, impairing 
mental health condition. Instead, it felt Mr M was suffering from an understandable reaction 
to his difficult family circumstances.
In August 2020, Mr M provided Unum with further evidence in support of his claim from a 
clinical psychologist who was providing support to Mr M following his wifes diagnosis. 
However, Unum maintained its position. It still didnt conclude that Mr Ms condition met the 
policy definition of incapacity. It also stated that the evidence was provided after the deferred 
period had ended and showed Mr M had first consulted with the psychologist after the end of 
the deferred period too.
Mr M was made redundant from his role in October 2020.
Mr M was unhappy with Unums decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She assessed the available 
medical evidence and she didnt think it showed that Mr Ms illness had prevented him from 
work. Rather, she felt Mr Ms caring responsibilities had affected his ability to carry out his 
job. So she didnt think Mr M had shown hed been incapacitated and therefore, she 
concluded itd been fair for Unum to turn down his claim.
Mr M disagreed and provided a further letter from his GP, which was written in September 
2021. This stated that in the GPs opinion, Mr M hadnt been fit to work in his usual 
occupation. The investigator sent this evidence to Unum for its comments, but it still 
concluded that the claim should be declined.
The investigator also maintained her view. She didnt think there was enough medical 
evidence to show that Mr M had been incapacitated during the entire deferred period. And 
she still wasnt persuaded that Mr Ms illness had prevented him from carrying out his role.
Mr M disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator:
He felt his condition met the policy definition of illness and that thered been a 
deterioration in his health, which had left him unfit for work;
He thought it was only significant that hed suffered from progressively worsening 
stress, rather than the cause of that stress. His symptoms reflected that he was unfit 
for work and he felt the medical evidence showed his illness had been elevated to 
more than stress;
Given the Covid-19 pandemic, thered been an effective moratorium on non-essential 
NHS services. His GP had eventually referred him to general psychiatry, but it hadnt 
been able to see him due to the pandemic;
Unum couldve asked for further clarification of his symptoms or arranged for him to 
see one of its own practitioners for assessment;
He queried why the investigator had referred to the NHS and National Institute for 
Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines when assessing his complaint;
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think it was fair for Unum to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Mr M that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im 
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr M needing to make a claim and I 
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for him and his family. In 
making my decision though, I havent commented on each and every point hes made and 
nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ms policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Unum 
handled Mr Ms claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with Unum. Mr Ms employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity benefit, 
given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Unum to 
consider whether Mr Ms claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look 
Unums definition of incapacity. This says:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
-Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and are-Not performing any occupation.
This means that in order for Unum to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a 
policyholders illness which prevents them from carrying out their main duties of their own 
occupation. In Mr Ms case, it means that Unum needs to be satisfied that his illness 
prevented him from performing the material and substantial duties of his role as a director.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mr Ms responsibility to provide Unum with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that his illness had led to him being unable to carry out his 
directors duties. While Mr M may have liked Unum to appoint an independent doctor to 
examine him, I dont think it was required to do so in these circumstances.
Unum assessed the evidence Mr M provided in support of his claim and concluded that it 
didnt indicate that he had a significant, impairing mental health condition or that he met the 
policy definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the available medical evidence to 
assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Unum to draw.
The policy says that a policyholder will be entitled to the benefits shown in the coverage 
section when a member has been unable to work, because of incapacity, for longer than the 
deferred period. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, a policyholder mustve been 
incapacitated in line with the policy terms, for the entire deferred period and afterwards.
Mr Ms deferred period ended on 4 February 2020 and therefore, the benefit became 
payable under the policy from 5 February 2020. So for the claim to be payable, Mr M needed 
to provide Unum with medical evidence to show that he had been prevented from carrying 
out the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation because of an illness.
Initial claim submission
When the claim was first made, Mr Ms employer submitted a claim form on his behalf. This 
set out a description of Mr Ms illness, which said:
Stress at home/family illness. Wife diagnosed with (degenerative illness) in June 2018. 
Unable to cope with the demands of being at work, which is over an hour away from home. 
Unum also reviewed Mr Ms medical records. In July 2019, Mr M saw the GP because of 
stress at home which was caused by his wifes symptoms. The GP noted that: (Mr M) was 
not concentrating at work, he is agitated but does not feel depressed. The GP noted that 
this was down to Mr M worrying about his wife.
On 17 September 2019, the notes show that Mr M saw his GP again. The records say: 
Patient reviewed tried to go back to work. Couldnt concentrate. Has realised all the care 
gaps for (his wife) and the increased support she needs from him.
Copies of Mr Ms sick notes were also sent to Unum and Ive looked at these closely. In 
November 2019, Mr M was signed off with stress at home/family illness. The same cause of 
absence was given on the December 2019 certificate. And in January 2020, the GP stated 
that Mr Ms absence was down to stress at home.
Mr Ms GP provided a letter in support of Mr Ms claim, dated 20 February 2020. This said:
It is my opinion that Mr M is currently suffering from a reactive depressive episode due to a 
combination not least the illness that his wife is suffering. He is exhibiting symptoms of low mood, poor concentration, poor motivation, poor sleep pattern and is suffering anxiety when 
having to complete tasks or deal with quite simple issues which he would have managed 
without any difficulty in the past.
I appreciate that his medical certificates up until now have stated family illness and stress for 
the reason but I do feel Mr Ms symptoms are such that they can be classified as having a 
depressive impact on his mood as a likely reaction to the situation that he finds himself in.
Unum assessed the available medical evidence, including with clinical members of staff. 
While it sympathised with Mr Ms position, it concluded that he wasnt suffering from a 
mental illness which prevented him from carrying out his role. Instead, it felt that Mr M was 
suffering with a reaction to his circumstances and that he wasnt suffering with a significant 
mental health condition of a severity which affected his day-to-day ability to function.
Ive thought very carefully about this. Its clear that Mr M was suffering from symptoms which 
can also be indicative of a significant mental health condition. But Ive also noted that Mr M 
hadnt been prescribed any medication for his symptoms and he hadnt been given a formal 
diagnosis of depression rather than a depressive episode (or another mental illness). And 
while I note Mr M says his GP did refer him to psychological services, theres nothing on Mr 
Ms medical records to suggest that he was referred for talking or psychological therapies. 
Instead, I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that the evidence showed that Mr M 
was suffering from an understandable reaction to the very difficult situation in which he found 
himself. And that Mr Ms absence was likely due to the caring responsibilities he was 
carrying out as opposed to a mental health condition. I say that because the GP has noted 
that Mr M couldnt concentrate because it seems he was concerned about the gaps in his 
wifes care. This doesnt indicate that the GP thought Mr M himself had a diagnosed medical 
condition. 
So I dont think Unum acted unfairly when it decided that Mr M wasnt suffering from a 
significant mental health condition, during the deferred period, which prevented him from 
carrying out the material and substantial duties of his occupation.
Subsequent medical evidence
Following Unums decision to turn down the claim, Mr M provided further evidence from a 
clinical psychologist who worked within an NHS department which supported the patients 
suffering from Mr Ms wifes condition and their families. This letter was dated 6 August 
2020. Mr M had begun therapeutic sessions with the psychologist after he got in touch with a 
specialist support line. The psychologist stated:
(Mr M) has been experiencing reactive low mood in response to carers' strain and burden 
due to his wife's diagnosis, the progression in her cognitive decline, and behavioural 
changes associated with her diagnosis.
She continued: He has embraced this role but he is aware his attention is diverted and he
has understandably found it difficult to continue in his previous work role due to his role as 
his wife's main carer. It is my understanding that he is on sick leave from his work. His 
workrequired him to be able to attend to key tasks.
The letter refers to Mr Ms symptoms and says: As noted above he is experiencing reactive 
low mood and anxiety in response to carers strain and burdenThis evidence of significant 
carers strain has resulted from the complexities and ongoing decline in his wifes functioning 
due to her diagnosis... He completed a formal measure of mood state called the CORE-10 
and his score was indicative of moderate depression.Again, Unum reviewed this evidence, although it noted the consultations had fallen outside 
of the deferred period. It still concluded that the symptoms the psychologist noted Mr M was 
suffering from were caused by a reaction to his wifes illness and his circumstances, rather 
than any significant mental health condition. It referred in particular to the fact that Mr M 
hadnt been given a formal diagnosis, hadnt been referred onwards or been prescribed any 
medication.
Ive considered this evidence carefully. Its clear that Mr M was suffering from symptoms of 
low mood and anxiety. But I do think the evidence points towards the cause of Mr Ms 
symptoms being his wifes illness and not a diagnosed, clinical, significant medical condition 
which prevented Mr M from carrying out his role. While Mr M was talking to a psychologist, it 
appears this was provided as a support line for families dealing with his wifes diagnosis. 
And the letter focuses on Mr Ms emotional and practical reactions to caring for his wife. The 
letter shows that Mr M found it difficult to remain in his role as a director due to his role as his 
wifes main carer. This seems to suggest that this was a practical constraint on his ability to 
carry out his role and attend the office, rather than being unable to work because of a 
significant mental health condition.
Its clear too that Mr M wasnt prescribed any form of medication to treat the underlying 
symptoms. On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude that Mr Ms 
absence wasnt due to an incapacity which prevented him from carrying out the substantial 
and material duties of his role. Instead, I think it fairly concluded that Mr Ms absence was 
more likely due to his caring responsibilities and a reaction to his circumstances.
Mr Ms GP provided us with a further letter dated 28 September 2021, which expanded on 
his letter on February 2020. The GP said:
I can confirm that Mr M was being issued with medical certificates stating that he was unfit 
for work and it is my opinion that at the time I was seeing Mr M that I feel he was unable to 
perform the duties of his usual occupation.
Unum considered this letter. It maintained that the medical evidence showed clearly that Mr 
Ms absence was caused by his wifes illness and that while he experienced symptoms of 
anxiety, these wouldnt be evidence of a medical condition which would cause Mr M to be 
functionally impaired. It felt more weight should be placed on the contemporaneous medical 
notes the GP had recorded at the time of Mr Ms consultations with him, rather than a 
retrospective review. And it argued that if the GP had considered Mr M to be functionally 
impaired at the time, they wouldve referred Mr M for treatment or prescribed medication.
Having considered this new evidence carefully, I dont think Unums decision here is unfair. I 
have placed more weight on the contemporaneous medical evidence which was provided at 
the time of Mr Ms claim and which showed his state of health during the deferred period. 
This evidence did suggest that Mr Ms symptoms were down to stress caused by his wifes 
illness. Indeed, in the GPs notes and earlier letter, he referred to Mr M being unable to work 
largely because he was concerned about supporting his wife and the gaps in her care. I still 
think this is persuasive evidence that Mr Ms absence was more likely due to the 
understandable constraints placed upon his ability to work because of also acting as a carer. 
And as Ive set out above, theres simply no available medical evidence to suggest that the 
GP gave Mr M a formal diagnosis; prescribed medication or referred him for treatment. The 
GP also hasnt indicated how or why Mr Ms symptoms wouldve prevented him from 
carrying out the substantial and material duties of his directors role. On that basis then, I 
dont think it was unfair for Unum to maintain its earlier claims decision that Mr M hadnt met 
the policy definition of incapacity.So overall, despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ms position, I find it was fair and reasonable 
for Unum to turn down his income protection claim.
Ive noted that Mr M has told us he felt let down by Unums claims process and that he didnt 
feel he was provided with support from his claims consultant. It doesnt appear though that 
Mr M has previously complained to Unum about this issue. This means Unum hasnt had a 
chance to look into and respond to Mr Ms concerns. Under our rules, we can only look into a 
complaint once a financial business has had the opportunity to investigate a complaint and 
put things right. As such, I cant look into this part of Mr Ms complaint here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman