DRN-3618079
The complaint
Mr M complains about advice he was given to transfer two pensions he had, to a 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Mr M says the advice to transfer these two pensions 
was unsuitable and believes hes been caused financial losses as a result.
The first pension relates to a personal pension plan Mr M held with a large financial provider. 
This was a defined contribution (DC) scheme - a type of plan which invests in funds over 
time to save for retirement. In a DC scheme, the plan-holder bears the investment risk and 
the cost of administration which can affect how much is left for retirement. Mr M transferred 
out of this plan to a SIPP provider in late 2014.
The second pension was a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS)  
usually a type of scheme run by trustees. Typically this type of scheme offers certain 
guarantees, benefits and index-linking for life. Mr M also transferred this pension to his SIPP 
provider, but in 2016.
Money Advice & Planning Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep 
things simple Ill therefore refer to MAP. Ill also refer to the two pensions respectively as 
the DC scheme and the DB scheme.
What happened
Mr M approached MAP to discuss his pension and retirement needs. MAP completed an 
initial fact-find in September 2014 to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. A summary was broadly as follows:
Mr M was almost 50 years old, employed and earning £30,000 per year. He was said 
to have a disposable income of around £600 per month.
He was divorced with no others financially dependent on him. Mr M was living in a 
council house which he was hoping to buy in the near future. He was in good health. 
Mr Ms only significant financial assets at the time appeared to be his pensions. The 
value of the DC scheme at the time was £10,446. The DB scheme had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £59,282 at the time, with a normal retirement age 
of 62.
In October 2014, MAP went on to recommend in its suitability report that Mr M should 
transfer out of his DC scheme to another provider  the SIPP - and invest in funds 
commensurate with his attitude to risk (ATR) which it said was moderate-to-adventurous. It 
seems that although there were also discussions about the DB scheme at this time, the 
advice MAP gave to Mr M was not to transfer out of this.
 
In the second half of 2015, it seems MAP met with Mr M again and by this time his DB CETV 
had increased to £95,369. In September 2015, after again pointing out its previous advice to 
Mr M was not to transfer out of his DB scheme, MAP says that Mr M indicated he wanted to 
transfer out anyway, against this advice. MAP says this meant he was treated as an 
insistent client, a term used in the industry to describe when a client goes against 
professional financial advice in this way. 
Mr M is now represented by a company acting on his behalf which says the advice by MAP 
was unsuitable and has caused him losses. Quite a few points were made on Mr Ms behalf, 
but the central complaint here is really that both these transfers were unsuitable.
The complaint was referred to our Service. One of our investigators comprehensively looked 
into it and said we should part-uphold it. They thought the DC scheme transfer advice was 
suitable, but the DB scheme transfer was not suitable. 
MAP didnt agree with our investigator and I have considered everything that it has said with 
care. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a decision.
I then issued a provisional decision in this case, in June 2022, saying I was minded to 
uphold the complaint in full. I invited any further information or comments and said that Id 
consider these before issuing a final decision. Ive received a reply from Mr Ms 
representatives agreeing with my provisional decision, but no other comments from MAP. I 
can now proceed to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding the complaint in full  I think the advice to transfer both the 
DC and DB schemes was unsuitable. 
The DC scheme
This element of Mr Ms pensions was the subject of advice from MAP in 2014. After an initial 
fact-find in September and a suitability report in October, the funds were transferred from the 
DC scheme to the new SIPP at the end of 2014.
Ive therefore thought about the reasons for Mr M apparently seeking to transfer from this 
scheme to a SIPP in the first place. These were described mainly as him wanting to obtain 
more control and flexibility over the pension and seeking greater returns from the invested 
funds. However, I think these reasons are more likely to have been put forward by the 
adviser, rather than Mr M himself. Mr M didnt have an extensive investment history to call 
upon and many of the features of the new scheme were already present in his existing one. 
So I dont think from the outset that it was clear enough why switching to a SIPP was 
warranted.
For this type of transfer to be suitable for Mr M, I would expect to see some evidence that 
there was a reasonable prospect for Mr M to be better off in some way as a result of 
switching. MAP ought to have explained this by clearly showing comparisons between his 
current scheme and the new one. Any performance comparison should have been made on 
a like-for-like basis.
Ive noted that, before the advice, Mr Ms existing DC pension was invested in a with-profits 
fund. Like our investigator, I think that some of the comments made by MAP about his 
existing fund and the providers fund range were somewhat misleading. For instance, when advising him to choose another provider and fund for the DC scheme, MAP said his existing 
fund choice was very limited and that there was little scope to cater for his particular ATR. 
However, I dont think either of these things were fair as they were no more than generic 
observations. I think it would have been possible to transfer to a variety of other funds within 
his existing scheme, even if I accept the choice was probably more limited than the new 
SIPP. Ultimately, MAP didnt compare or properly explain any performance data between Mr 
Ms existing provider and the new SIPP it was recommending. And while the recommended 
funds may well have outperformed the with-profits fund, there was no like-for-like 
comparison. I think it would have been equally possible to select a range of funds from his 
existing supplier that could have performed better. This doesnt appear to have been 
explored.
I think there were some further failings by MAP in the course of the advice; it said that the 
new plan would have to achieve additional growth of 2.7% per year just to cover the cost of 
higher charges, but it failed to explain how the transferred funds might achieve this. 
Ive also noted that Mr Ms DC pension was quite small, so I think the level of charges here 
were likely to be a very relevant consideration. The overall charges of the SIPP appeared to 
be significantly higher than Mr Ms existing scheme, meaning his small pension could be 
vulnerable to erosion from higher charges. 
So I dont think MAP did a very good job with its recommendation. MAP left out a lot of 
important detail Mr M ought to have been given. There were most likely other, cheaper, 
options such as a stakeholder pension or another cheaper personal pension plan that should 
have been considered and explained. I cant see this was done.
I have considered whether Mr M may well have gone ahead and transferred anyway for 
other reasons he felt were more compelling. This may have included the current projected 
growth rates of the SIPP funds appearing more attractive. He may also have been content to 
pay higher charges related to the provision of ongoing financial advice. But these things 
dont seem to have been discussed and in my view, they would have likely come from his 
adviser rather than Mr M himself. Looking at what Mr M eventually invested in, I dont agree 
there was a clear case showing Mr M could reasonably expect that the recommended funds 
in the new SIPP could outperform his existing funds by more than the required margin 
mentioned in the suitability report. 
So, taking everything into account, there needed to be sound reasons for Mr M to be advised 
to transfer out of his current DC scheme. Instead, the comparisons fell short, the charges 
were higher and no alternatives appear to have been discussed. For these reasons Im not 
persuaded that the advice to transfer his DC scheme pension was in his best interests. I 
think the advice was unsuitable and I uphold this part of the complaint.
The DB scheme
Ive noted the DB scheme formed a much larger part of Mr Ms pension savings. 
Theres no dispute that the initial advice in 2014 recommended the transfer of this element of 
his pension savings shouldnt take place. However, this initial advice always seems to have 
been to keep this element under review. Accordingly, the issue of transferring out of the DB 
scheme was resurrected in the autumn of 2015. It eventually took place in mid-2016, around 
18 months after Mr M had established his new SIPP, having transferred his DC scheme into 
it.MAP says Mr M ultimately went against its advice that he ought to stay inside the DB 
scheme. It says this meant he became an insistent client. However, Im afraid I disagree 
with this and I found MAPs recommendation and advice about the transfer to be very 
unclear. Ill explain why.
It seems that when the CETV of the DB scheme was requested again in 2015 it was found to 
have increased to £95,369. Being a substantial increase on the previous CETV, I think its 
fair to say this probably generated some interest in re-evaluating what could be done. As 
Mr M had expressed a previous interest in transferring out, I think he did so again when the 
figure was higher. The evidence shows he was interested in accessing his benefits at 55, 
rather than having to wait until his normal retirement age.
On 22 September 2015, I can see a pre-advice letter was sent from MAP to Mr M. On first 
look, this appears to be cautioning once again against transferring out of his DB scheme. 
Nevertheless, in my view, despite MAP saying its advice was always against transferring out 
of the DB scheme, there was a clear underlying bias in that letter in favour of actually 
transferring out anyway. Unevidenced concerns about the overall funding / security of the 
scheme were raised in the letter, as were death benefit concerns, in as much as they may 
not suit Mr Ms needs. There was also a reference to the DB pension not being guaranteed 
which, without explanation, I think could have been misunderstood by Mr M. 
So, overall, I think this letter was very unclear on what it was actually saying. Despite what 
MAP says, I think the letter was merely setting the scene for Mr M to transfer out anyway.
Similarly, on 26 September 2015, a suitability report was issued by MAP which said it was 
inclined to recommend he shouldnt transfer out. The only real reason highlighted was the 
growth levels that Mr M would need to achieve to match his existing scheme. But again, the 
report cited a number of reasons Mr M had apparently himself given for transferring out 
including the financial security of the scheme, death benefits being unsuitable, the high 
CETV, flexibility / control of his pension, and accessing tax-free cash more quickly. 
Once again, Ive thought about whether the origin of these reasons to transfer out came from 
Mr M, set out as they were in MAPs own correspondence. And I have compared them with a 
short, bullet-pointed response from Mr M saying he still wanted to go ahead and transfer out. 
I also note the substantial evidence in the complaint file which does tend to strongly show Mr 
M was not an experienced investor. I therefore think its much more plausible that the 
reasons to transfer out were actually reasons originating from MAP itself, rather than Mr M. 
On 16 October 2015, another suitability report was issued to Mr M by MAP in respect of the 
DB scheme. Again, this mentioned a general reluctance to recommend transfers from these 
types of DB schemes. However, this time the report noted that whilst the advice had been 
against transferring out of this scheme, Mr M had decided he wanted to go ahead anyway. It 
said You have instructed me to proceed anyway on the basis of the letter you gave me 
which stated your reasons. However, the report went on to recommend the transfer should 
take place, having said elsewhere it shouldnt. This was another factor I think would have 
been confusing for Mr M.
In my view, all these things demonstrate the advice and recommendation(s) from MAP were 
confusing to a significant degree.
What was MAP required to do?
There was limited guidance available specifically about insistent clients at the time of this 
advice, but nonetheless, the regulator placed important general obligations on firms like 
MAP. These included the overarching principles such as: Principle 1  Integrity; Principle 2 - skill, care and diligence; Principle 6 - customers interests; Principle 9 - reasonable care. Our 
investigator also set out some older guidance.
As well as this, there are other requirements when advising a client about the suitability of 
transferring out of a defined benefit scheme (these are set out in more detail in COBS 
19.1.6G). The regulator says that when advising clients about transferring out of a defined 
benefit scheme, the firm should start from the position of assuming it wont be suitable 
unless it can clearly demonstrate whether its in their best interests overall. 
I have also taken account that the regulator has previously expressed concerns and 
expectations about how businesses should execute insistent client business in connection 
with defined benefit transfers  it did this in July 2014 when it published TR14/12 Enhanced 
transfer value pension transfers
However, I should also point out that there is no rule to prevent advisers transacting 
business against their advice, if the client insists. So, I need to think here about whether 
enough was done by MAP to try and find alternative ways of meeting Mr Ms objectives. I 
have also considered whether the insistent client process in this case was merely, in the 
words of the regulator, a papering exercise.
Was Mr M an insistent client?
Everything Ive said above demonstrates that firms, like MAP, had a number of important 
responsibilities when providing advice. Despite what Mr M thought he wanted, I think his 
expectation in paying for regulated financial advice was that he would be clearly guided on 
the basis of his circumstances and means. The information ought to have been clear, fair 
and not misleading. In particular, it should be clear that the business has not recommended 
the transaction and the risks proposed by the client ought to have been pointed out.
I dont think MAP adequately did this. 
In my view, MAPs actions and inactions fitted the regulators definition of a papering 
exercise. Its advice as regards transferring out was indecisive. This was demonstrated in 
the pre-advice letter of 22 September 2015 and the suitability reports that followed on 
26 September and 16 October 2015  both sat on the fence as regards his transferring out 
options and so lacked the clarity I would expect to see. I also note what Mr M said about his 
intentions to transfer out (and the manner in which he said it). I think it demonstrated a lack 
of understanding of the process. Importantly, I think the points used by Mr M to substantiate 
his desire to transfer out were, in effect, fed to him in the pre-advice letter from MAP itself 
and its wider communications.
So, considered as a whole, I believe the evidence here indicates that MAP effectively 
recommended the transfer out, rather than it stemming from Mr M. I dont believe the 
evidence is plausible that Mr M even was an insistent client. I think that many of the 
reasons put forward as being Mr Ms own motivations were, in reality, reasons fed to him in 
MAPs own approach to this case. The advice simply wasnt clear enough and when Mr M 
said hed like to go ahead anyway MAP didnt re-iterate why this wasnt in accordance with 
its advice. I think the longer-term risks about transferring out of the scheme were 
underplayed. 
Given that I dont think Mr M met the definition of an insistent client I went on to consider 
whether I thought this made a difference to the outcome of the complaint. In particular, Ive 
given a great deal of thought to whether transferring out could be said to be suitable. 
Financial comparisons Theres no real dispute that Mr M could be losing out in the longer term by transferring out of 
his DB scheme. After all, MAP itself says its initial recommendation implied he shouldnt 
transfer out. So this is a persuasive argument that MAP didnt consider it suitable. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
MAP explained the high growth rates Mr Ms funds would need to achieve outside his current 
scheme, in order to match the financial benefits he could have by remaining inside. It said 
the critical yield required to match the DB pension benefits available at 65, was 5.61% per 
year. It said the hurdle rate  the estimated annual investment return needed to buy an 
annuity with similar benefits assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no 
guarantee  was also 5.61%. MAP also said the funds needed to buy an annuity with similar 
benefits assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee at 
retirement, was £144,963. I also note MAP said that if transferred out, the funds in the SIPP 
could run out in Mr Ms mid-70s. 
Our investigator made some valuable observations about the accuracy of some of these 
figures and I agree they look flawed; I find it unlikely that the critical yield and hurdle rates 
were the same. Also, Mr Ms scheme normal retirement age was 62, rather than the 65 used 
in the above scenario by MAP. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before October 2017 and was 
4.3% per year for 12 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
Of course Ive noted that Mr M may have aspired to retiring earlier than 62. However, looking 
at all these figures, I think they clearly demonstrate that Mr M was very likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by his DB scheme at retirement. So, on 
this basis, I think theres good evidence that the transfer out wasnt in Mr Ms long-term 
financial interests. 
Flexibility and income needs
Again, I saw conflicting statements from MAP about Mr Ms retirement plans and needs. 
Although MAP said Mr M could benefit from an option to drawdown benefits early and to 
have flexibility and control over his funds, I think it poorly defined what these terms really 
meant in Mr Ms circumstances. I can certainly see how the prospect of a lump sum from his 
pension at the age of 55, and a subsequent income or drawdown, might have seemed useful 
to him. However, based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think its clear that Mr M had a 
genuine need to transfer out of his DB scheme to his SIPP and to draw funds earlier than 
would have otherwise been the case. He was employed and enjoyed some disposable 
income. Whilst obviously an attractive prospect for Mr M in some respects, this all needed to 
be considered very carefully in his circumstances and balanced against other aspects of his 
overall situation and longer-term retirement security. MAP failed to adequately do this.
Mr M was only around 50 at the time of the (later) advice, and based on both on what Ive 
seen and been told by MAP, he didnt have concrete retirement plans. I think this just added to the fact that it was simply too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of 
the DB scheme. 
Accordingly, I dont think it was suitable for Mr M to give up all the guaranteed benefits the 
DB scheme came with when he didnt really yet know what his needs in later life would be. I 
cant see evidence that he had a strong need for cash and/or a variable income at this point, 
when considering what hed also have to forgo to get these.
In my view, the information gathered by MAP about his current and future income needs was 
generally poor and these failures represented a significant shortcoming in the advice. Mr M 
could have remained a member of the DB scheme until the retirement age of 62 and 
accessed a pension through that scheme. Im satisfied he could have continued to meet his 
income needs in the short-to-medium term. 
Death benefits
This issue was cited by MAP as of importance to Mr M who was divorced. However, the 
advice didnt focus on the details of what Mr Ms actual objectives were around the death 
benefits. It could have been that the lump sum death benefits on offer through a SIPP were 
an attractive feature to Mr M. Ive noted he had two children but these arent mentioned in 
the context of these benefits. So, whilst I appreciate Mr M might have thought it was a good 
idea to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise him 
about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. 
Also, whether the death benefits here were improved following a transfer depended on how 
much remained in the pension fund at the point of Mr Ms passing. Given average life 
expectancy, and the size of his fund, I think it was always likely that this fund would be 
entirely depleted prior to Mr Ms death, thus providing no death benefits at all. I dont think 
that MAP made this clear.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ms desire for control over his pension benefits needed to be considered with 
everything else that was known. I reiterate again; theres no evidence he was an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had either an interest in or the knowledge to 
be able to effectively manage his pension funds. I therefore dont think that this was a 
genuine objective for Mr M  it was simply a consequence of transferring him away from the 
DB scheme which was managed for him already.
Ive also mentioned a suggestion from MAP, that the funding of Mr Ms DB scheme was in a 
position such that Mr M should have been concerned about the security of his pension. 
However, this seems to hang completely on the scheme being in deficit  as many DB 
schemes are. I saw no analysis of what this really meant and to what extent a risk really did 
exist other than a legal article which I think needed explanation for Mr M. Different deficit 
figures were quoted to him at different times and although large, they were not put into 
context against the overall size of the fund. No investigation seems to have taken place into 
whether there were ongoing steps to mitigate the deficit. Furthermore, if the scheme did end 
up moving to the pension Protection Fund (PPF), I think MAP should have explained that 
this was not as concerning as Mr M thought and a further explanation about the PPF ought 
to have taken place. 
SummarySo, Ive set out above that in relation to the first pension, the DC scheme, I do not think the 
advice was suitable. The charges were considerably higher than Mr Ms existing scheme 
and I set out MAPs many failures in providing the advice. No evidence of a reasonable 
prospect for higher returns was demonstrated. Im upholding this part of the complaint.
As regards the DB scheme, because MAP says Mr M went against its advice, I first 
considered the insistent client issue. However, to be clear, I think the circumstances around 
this were very vague. I do not consider Mr M to have fitted this definition. This is because the 
advice and recommendations from MAP were unclear from the outset, in what they were 
really saying. A series of reasons for going ahead with the transfer were cited by MAP as 
coming from Mr Ms, but in my view, they are much more likely to have originated from MAP 
during the course of its discussions with him. I pointed out a number of examples where this 
was evident. 
As regards suitability, given MAP itself has said it advised against a transfer, it would be 
hard for it to argue that the DB transfer was in fact suitable. And I agree that it was not. The 
financial comparisons showed hed be worse off transferring and there was no coherent 
assessment of Mr Ms retirement needs. I provided more examples where this was evident.
Mr Ms existing DB scheme contained a number of valuable guarantees and benefits which 
made transferring out something that needed a great deal of consideration. I think the advice 
was unsuitable. So, I am upholding the DB scheme part of the complaint. 
Finally, I went on to think about whether, if Mr M had been given clear and persuasive 
reasons why transferring wasnt in his best interests, he would have followed advice to 
remain inside the DB scheme. My view is that I think he would. With his circumstances and 
lack of investment experience, Mr M went to MAP seeking advice. I think its more likely that 
he would have followed that advice had it been delivered with the skill, care and diligence 
required and shown to be in his interests.
Putting things right  DC scheme
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr M would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must MAP do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, MAP must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
MAP should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, MAP should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If MAP is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either MAP or Mr M dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let us 
know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Mr M receives 
appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once 
any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If MAP deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. MAP should give Mr 
M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists 
and liquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr M's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. MAP should request that the previous provider calculate this value.Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
MAP totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional 
value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, MAP will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr M's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation 
of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
Putting things right  DB scheme
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for MAP to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for MAPs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
MAP must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
MAP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date MAP receives notification of 
an acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes MAP to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold both the DC and DB part of this complaint and 
require Money Advice & Planning Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out 
in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Money Advice & Planning Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Money 
Advice & Planning Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Money Advice & Planning Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Money Advice & 
Planning Limited. My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt accept. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman