DRN-4249176
The complaint
Mr F says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) told him that his account included 
Travel Insurance.  
Mr F went to claim on the travel insurance on his account, but was told that he didnt have 
any travel insurance cover in place.
What happened
Nationwide did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said that Mr F changed his FlexPlus account 
(which did include travel insurance) to a FlexDirect account (which doesnt included travel 
insurance) in June 2017.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint 
and they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I should also explain that where matters are 
in dispute and evidence is incomplete, as is the case here, I need to decide what I think most 
likely happened based on all the evidence that is available. And having considered 
everything, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Mr F says that he was told that his account included travel insurance. Mr F says he went to 
claim on that travel insurance and was told that he didnt have any insurance in place. 
I dont doubt that Mr F was, at some point in the past, told that his current account included 
travel insurance. I say this because Mr F did previously hold a fee-paying FlexPlus account. 
And one of the benefits it included was travel insurance.
However, Nationwide has explained that Mr F later changed his account to a fee-free 
FlexDirect account in June 2017. This account didnt include any insurance benefits 
whatsoever. I understand the key feature of this account is it pays interest on credit 
balances.
Based on the complaint documents Nationwide has provided our service, it appears that Mr 
F said to Nationwide that he did not change his account. So, I considered the likelihood of 
whether Nationwide changed the account without his consent or without telling him.
However, I dont think that was likely to have happened. The reason why I say that is 
because Mr F was paying a monthly fee to Nationwide for the FlexPlus account, whereas he 
didnt pay any fee to Nationwide to have the FlexDirect account. As such, there was no 
financial incentive for Nationwide to have changed Mr Fs account from one where he paid a 
monthly fee to one where he didnt. 
Unfortunately, as the account change happened in 2017, there is now limited evidence 
available from the time. Nationwide has however been able to provide evidence to indicate 
the request to change the account took place in branch (rather than online). And the branch 
that the request to change account came from is situated in the same area that Mr Fs lives  
indeed it would appear it was his local branch. 
Furthermore, Nationwide has provided evidence to show that a new debit card was sent to 
Mr F once the account was changed over. Nationwide says the debit card sent to Mr F was a 
different colour (to his existing card) and stated FlexDirect on it. Nationwide has also 
provided evidence to show that the account name on statements and online banking (if Mr F 
used this) wouldve changed too.
If it was the case that Mr F didnt ask for his account to be changed, I wouldve expected him 
to have questioned why Nationwide had sent him a new debit card with a different product 
name on it. Or to have questioned why he was no longer being sent any information about 
the insurance benefits  such as annual reminders  that he thought he still had. I say that 
bearing in mind that hed not been paying for or receiving the benefits of the FlexPlus 
account for around six years when he attempted to claim on it.
Having weighed everything up, I think Mr F in all likelihood did request that his account be 
changed to a fee-free account in 2017  perhaps to benefit from the credit interest that it 
paid (which was the main feature of the FlexDirect account). Ive also not seen anything to 
suggest that Nationwide had said or sent anything to Mr F since 2017, that misled him into 
thinking that he still had the FlexPlus account, when in fact he didnt.
So in the circumstances, I think its more likely that Mr F had simply forgotten that he no 
longer had travel insurance included with his account when he went on his trip. Or perhaps 
Mr F saw that the word Flex was still in the account name and so incorrectly assumed that 
he still had travel insurance, forgetting that hed changed account type and removed travel 
insurance from his account a number of years ago, back in 2017. And this unfortunately 
resulted in him inadvertently travelling without having any travel insurance in place.
Either way, whilst I have some sympathy for the situation that Mr F found himself in, Im 
unable to say that Nationwide has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him. And so it 
follows that Im unable to say that Nationwide should be held responsible for Mr Fs 
uninsured loss in the circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman