DRN-3940710
The complaint
Ms D and X complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has treated them 
unfairly with how it has priced their insurance over a number of years and it caused distress 
and inconvenience when it changed the cover provided.
What happened
Ms D and X have insured their home with RSA since 1985 with a buildings insurance policy. 
The policy was underwritten by RSA but provided by a third party under its brand. Ill refer to 
this third party as company A. The cost of Ms D and Xs buildings insurance for the year 
2020/2021 was £3,807.24.
In 2021 RSA wrote to Ms D and X to notify them that it was no longer going to provide its 
underwriting service to Company A and the policy wouldnt renew on 5 August 2021. It 
provided notice of the change on 14 June and sent a reminder on 30 June and 15 July 2021. 
RSA invited Ms D and X to seek a quote from its other brand, who Ill refer to as Company B.
On 8 July 2021, Ms D and X spoke with Company B as directed. The price quoted and 
accepted for the insurance for 2021/2022 was considerably cheaper than the previous 
policy. They made some changes to their cover overall, including adding contents insurance 
alongside their buildings insurance. The combined price of the new policy was £1,130.92 
with the buildings insurance costing around £800. 
Ms D and X feel confusion was added by RSA to the claim process when it wrote to say the 
policy was being cancelled and they had trouble contacting RSA to register a claim which 
added distress.
On 12 July Ms D and X notified RSA of damage to their roof that they believed was the result 
of storm damage. RSA arranged for the damage to be assessed but didnt accept the claim. 
It felt the damage was not the result of storm damage. Ms D and X called RSA in late July 
2021 and they struggled to get through to a claims handler. When they did speak with 
someone they asked that RSA reconsider the claim but it declined to do so and the claim 
was closed. 
Ms D and X made a complaint to RSA about the cost of their policy and their recent claims 
handling experience. They wanted an explanation as to why the cost of their buildings 
insurance was able to be reduced by around £3000.00 when they took the new policy and 
moved from the policy branded by Company A. They felt theyd been overcharged for a 
number of years and asked that RSA look to compensate them for this loss. They also asked 
that RSA recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor claims handling 
when they were unclear on the level of cover for the month of July 2021 ahead of the policy 
being cancelled. A complaint was made on both points with RSA and Company A.
RSA said it didnt think it had done anything wrong when pricing Ms D and Xs previous 
policy. It said the price was in line with its pricing strategy and approach for this product and 
was correct on this basis. It also said that RSA offers insurance through a range of different 
channels and the price will vary across these and new business prices are offered with a 
considerable discount. So the new price, through a different channel with a new business 
discount was not a like for like comparison to the old policy and it didnt show it had made a 
mistake previously. 
RSA also provided some more general information about the cost of insurance and factors it 
takes into account and that it had provided notice of each renewal 4 weeks before the 
renewal date. If Ms D and X were unhappy, it felt they had the option to shop around when 
these were received.
With the complaint about the information provided with the cancellation of the policy and the 
claims handling at this point, it also didnt think it had done anything wrong. RSA explained 
how it had assessed the claim as it was responsible for any claims raised before the contract 
expired, but it had declined the claim made as it didnt think the damage related to an 
insured event. It highlighted the notices sent about the insurance coming to an end and 
thought it had acted fairly when providing this notice.
Our investigator looked at Ms D and Xs complaint. With the pricing complaint, he initially 
upheld this as RSA hadnt been able to provide him with information to explain why the price 
had increased as it had overtime. He said because Ms D and X hadnt engaged on the cost 
of their policy, they were inert to the cost and he wasnt persuaded that their lack of 
engagement hadnt been taken advantage of. However RSA responded with more 
information and the complaint was looked at again.
At this point our investigator explained that RSA couldnt provide details of its pricing 
strategy beyond 2013, as the detail that sat behind the makeup of the price before this was 
no longer available. So he had only been able to consider the process it applied from 2013 
onwards. With this and the information RSA provided, he didnt think it had done anything 
wrong with how it had priced their policy over these years. As he could see the increases 
were in line with its strategy for the product Ms D and X had. And so on balance, he couldnt 
be sure it had treated them unfairly over the years with how the policy had been priced, even 
though he could only assess information for the most recent 9/10 years.  
Our investigator looked at the concerns about the claim handling and information provided 
about the policy being cancelled. He didnt think RSA had done anything wrong here as 
notice had been provided and it appeared that Company A had been unable to give Ms D 
and X information about the claim or find their policy. So he didnt think it was fair to say RSA 
had done anything wrong. 
Ms D and X explained they felt the direction was that Company A may have made a mistake 
with the claims handling and information provided. 
But they felt the answer given in relation to the pricing complaint didnt address or answer all 
of their questions. They still questioned why there was such a considerable difference in 
price between their new and old policy. And justifying the price and why this had changed 
from 2013 onwards didnt give an answer on this point.  They also questioned why RSA was 
able to provide claims data throughout the life of the policy but not the details relating to the 
price. They gave some more detail about the claims theyd made over the years and sought 
confirmation that the value of their claims hadnt impacted the cost of their policy. 
Our investigator responded to say that insurance costs can change between different 
insurers and brands with each taking their own view of a risk. So the difference in price 
wasnt something that confirmed if RSA had treated Ms D and X unfairly. And he was 
satisfied with the information provided that it hadnt done anything wrong with how the policy 
was priced or that it had treated them differently.  He also explained that the cost of a claim 
overall would not impact the cost of the policy.Ms D and X still felt RSA acted unfairly and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its been passed to me for decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms D and Xs complaint. I know this will be disappointing for them 
but Ill explain why Im not asking RSA to do anything else.
Ms D and X have made two complaints, one about the cost of their insurance and the 
second about the information provided when this insurance was not renewed and the impact 
this had on their claims experience. Theyve not raised a disagreement with our 
investigators opinion on the later complaint and as Im in agreement with the view theyve 
taken on this point, Ive not focused on this complaint in my decision. 
Instead Ive focused on what I feel is the crux of the complaint outstanding, whether RSA 
acted fairly when pricing Ms D and Xs insurance over the years they had it.
Ms D and X have been insured with RSA for many years and although having made a 
number of claims on the policy during this time, they dont appear to have engaged with it at 
any point on the cost of the insurance. So it renewed year on year after the renewal invite 
was sent. 
Ms D and X have given a couple of different reasons to explain why they didnt engage on 
the price of the insurance. They explained that as long-standing customers of Company A, 
they trusted the brand and felt their loyalty would be rewarded with a fair price for their 
insurance. Theyve also said that because of a historic subsidence claim on their policy, they 
felt it would have been unlikely to find another provider for their insurance for some time.
It wasnt until Ms D and X were forced to shop around that they realised their insurance 
could be found for considerably less than they were paying and it is understandable why, 
with such a large difference in price, that they now question if theyve been treated fairly in 
the past.
Regardless of the reasons for no engagement on the cost of their policy, Im satisfied that 
Ms D and X were inert to the price changes. When this happens, it is important that price 
increases arent applied because its likely theyll be accepted without challenge, as to do so 
would be taking advantage of the customers inertia. So Ive looked at the information 
provided by RSA to explain why it charged what it did for the previous policy. 
RSA hasnt been able to provide the exact pricing methodology applied for every year the 
policy was in place. Bearing in mind this policy was in place for more than 30 years, it is 
understandable why some information is not available. But RSA has been able to provide us 
with a breakdown of how Ms D and Xs policy was priced from 2013 onwards, setting out 
how it treated them when compared to other customers with the same insurance. 
I know Ms D and X have questioned why the claims data is available but the pricing 
information is not. As the previous pricing models changed they became outdated and RSA 
hasnt retained this detail. I dont think this is unreasonable when thinking about how far back 
this policy went and its fair to rely on this data as evidence of how it has likely treated Ms D 
and X for the duration of their policy.
As our investigator said, we arent able to share the  exact details of what RSA has shared, but Ill explain what I can to show why Im not persuaded RSA was treating Ms D and X 
unfairly when it applied the approach it did to the pricing of their policy.
Like all insurers, RSA assesses a large number of factors which help it to determine the 
price it feels it is appropriate to charge. Within this price it has a built-in margin amount, 
before this is applied to the price, the cost represents what the actual cost of the policy is to 
RSA and the margin provides the profit. If the reason for the price increase on Ms D and Xs 
policy was simply because the margin was increasing year on year, this wouldnt be fair and 
would demonstrate Ms D and Xs inertia was taken advantage of. But this hasnt happened 
with Ms D and Xs policy. 
From 2013 through until 2017, the margin applied to their policy remained the same or 
decreased. So although the overall price of the policy was increasing, this wasnt as a result 
of the margin being increased. But instead a mix of factors including claims inflation and a 
change in Insurance Premium Tax rates throughout this period, with this rising from 6% to 
12%, were the main reasons why the overall cost of the policy increased when RSAs margin 
dropped.
Although claims can have an impact on the cost of insurance, RSA hasnt said that the 
claims on Ms D and Xs policy had a major impact on the price, nor did the value of their 
claims. Instead changes were made based on wider claims inflation, through the experience 
of the book as a whole with expected claims costs derived from modelling the exposure to 
actual claims. With this in mind, Im satisfied RSA hasnt increased Ms D and Xs policy 
because of the value of their own claims, but instead has applied its overall approach to 
claims inflation, applying changes in price in line with this.
In 2018 there was a fairly significant increase in the margin amount with this increasing to a 
level that was broadly maintained for the remainder of the policy term. RSA has explained to 
this service in some detail why this change was made and it was made across a range of its 
products as it implemented a new pricing structure. As this was made across the products it 
sells, Ms D and X were not treated differently and Im persuaded the price increase wasnt 
because RSA was taking advantage of their lack of engagement. But instead because the 
policy was updated inline with the wider changes.
I know the crux of Ms D and Xs complaint is not whether the price increases applied have 
been fair, but how there can be such a stark difference in the cost between their new and old 
policy.  This is a fair question to ask when the difference in price is so significant.
In January 2022, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) made a number of changes to 
insurance pricing for motor and buildings insurance as it introduced new pricing rules. 
Although these changes arent relevant to the actions of RSA previously, I think they give 
some helpful context on what is still expected when insurers price policies through different 
brands and sales channels and how new business discounts were previously applied. It 
recognised that customers werent always receiving good outcomes and made changes to 
address this. But that there are instances where it will still be fair to expect to see insurers 
offering insurance for different prices.
The main change in these rules was placing a responsibility on insurers to not charge 
renewing customers more than they would a new business customer. This is referred to as 
the Equivalent New Business Price (ENBP). It meant the ability to offer large new customer 
discounts is no longer available but it was when Ms D and X took out their new policy with 
Company B. It was entitled to do this at the time and the price they paid included a discount 
and explains some of the disparity between the previous price and new price paid.
The rules also talk about sales through different channels and brands and in summary, it is expected that there will be a different price between these. Each brand will have its own 
pricing structure and strategy that it works to. And different channels may have different 
costs associated which are passed on within the cost of the policy. So an underwriter with 
different brands and policies sold through multiple channels may offer broadly the same 
cover for different prices, depending on the brand and sales method. 
I understand the difference in price was significant here, but I dont think this can be taken to 
show RSA has done anything wrong. It is the detail that sits behind how it priced their 
previous policy which demonstrates if it treated Ms D and X fairly. And as Ive explained 
above, Im satisfied it has with the price increases applied being done because of wider 
changes to the cost of the insurance and these costs being passed on to all of RSAs 
customers within the product. 
Overall, Ive not been persuaded that RSA has treated Ms D and X unfairly with how it has 
priced their policy over time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Ms D and Xs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman