DRN-4086885
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the amount retained by Acorn Insurance & Financial Services 
Ltd after he cancelled his van insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A bought van insurance through an aggregator website. He input his details, including the 
amount of no claims bonus (NCB) he held on his car, into the website. He then selected a 
quote for a policy which was sold through Acorn, who is an intermediary.
A few days later, Acorn contacted Mr A to validate his NCB. Acorn discovered that Mr As 
NCB was for a car rather than a van. Acorn said that Mr A couldnt use this NCB for the 
policy he had bought which meant the amount charged by the insurer increased. Mr A didnt 
want to pay this additional amount and cancelled his policy.
Acorn arranged to cancel Mr As policy but retained a £100 cancellation fee and £92.50 as 
the policy set-up fee. Mr A wasnt happy with this amount and complained about Acorn. He 
also complained about the insurer and that has been dealt with as a separate complaint.
Acorn said that the fees were set out in its Terms of Insurance Business (ToIB) which Mr A 
had to confirm that he had read before buying the policy. So it thought the fees were clear.
Unhappy with Acorns response, Mr A brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator looked into Mr As complaint and recommended it be upheld in part. She 
didnt think Acorn had made the fees clear when selling the policy, but she didnt think Mr A 
would have done anything differently even if they had been clear. However, she didnt think 
Acorn had sufficiently explained the work it had carried out to justify the fees it had charged. 
She recommended that Acorn reimburse Mr A half of the fees and pay him 8% simple 
interest per annum on this amount due to him being without money he should have had.
Neither Acorn nor Mr A agreed with our Investigator and both asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision. Acorn said that the fees were made clear to Mr A before he bought the policy and 
were also included in the welcome pack it provided. Acorn said the amount it charged was 
commensurate with the distribution services that it provides and its fee structure 
demonstrates good practice and is reviewed annually.
Mr A said that Acorn hadnt made it clear when selling the policy that he couldnt use his 
NCB from his car. So it wasnt fair for it to charge any fees as hed had little option but to 
cancel the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 April 2023 where I explained why I 
didnt intend to uphold this complaint. In said:
    Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and   
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has also complained about the insurer. As that complaint is about a separate 
business it needs to be dealt with separately and one of our Investigators has already 
given their findings on that complaint. So in this decision I am only going to comment 
on what Acorn, as the intermediary, might or might not have done wrong.
Ive started by considering Mr As point that he doesnt think its fair and reasonable for 
Acorn to apply any charges given that he doesnt think it made it clear that he couldnt 
use the NCB from his car when buying a policy for his van. Mr A said that the insurance 
policy documents should be the relevant documents to consider rather than the 
information contained on the aggregator website.
Ive reviewed the information Acorn provided from the price comparison website and 
next to the question about NCB it says: 
You can transfer your NCB to an alternative van but cant use the same NCB 
on more than one vehicle or on another type of vehicle, such as a car
I appreciate Mr A did not recall this information being available on the website. But, as 
Acorn has provided a screenshot, I think on balance of probabilities it was most likely 
available. I understand that after our Investigator shared a copy of this screenshot with 
Mr A, he checked the aggregator site and identified where the above information was 
set out. This supports that this information was set out on the aggregator site. 
However, I understand that he does not think it is reasonable for Acorn to rely on this 
information as it is not contained within the policy documents or any further literature 
provided by Acorn.
When considering the information that was available to Mr A when he bought his policy 
I think it is reasonable to consider the whole sales journey and so this includes the 
information available on the aggregator site.
I accept that Acorn doesnt seem to have provided any further details about how Mr A 
could use his NCB when he was transferred to its website. But even though Acorn 
didnt provide any further clarity, I think the information on the comparison website was 
clear enough to let Mr A know that he couldnt use the NCB from his car on the policy 
he took out for his van.
The information provided within the insurance policy document is the responsibility of 
the insurer and so isnt something I can hold Acorn responsible for. But, in any event, I 
think the fact that Mr A couldnt use his cars NCB on his van policy was made 
sufficiently clear when he bought his policy.
As Mr A didnt want to continue with his policy when discovering the insurer wanted to 
charge an additional premium, I think Acorn acted fairly and reasonably in letting Mr A 
cancel his policy. Acorns ToIB say that in the event of policy being cancelled the set-
up fee is non-refundable and also that a cancellation fee will be charged.
I have considered whether Acorn drew Mr As attention to the fees before he bought 
the policy because I think it is good industry practice to make any non-refundable fees 
clear at the point of sale. If Acorn didnt make the fees clear, I think it is fair and 
reasonable to consider what Mr A would have done if the fees had been clear. This is 
because unlike a consumer, a commercial customer isnt entitled to a refund of fees 
during the cooling-off period in the event of fees not being made clear.
Acorn has provided screenshots to show that Mr A needed to tick a box to say that hed 
read the ToIB. Acorn said that as the ToIB included details of the non-refundable fees 
this should have been clear to Mr A.I dont think it is particularly clear for a policyholder to have to click into a separate link 
and read down to the end of page two in order to be made aware of cancellation and 
set-up fees. Also, the ToIB are the third document in the list that Mr A was required to 
access and read. Acorn said that the ToIB was also included in the welcome pack, but 
as this was issued after Mr A had already bought his policy, I dont think that makes the 
fees sufficiently clear at the time he entered into the contract, as by the time he was 
sent them he had already bought the policy.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr A would have not bought the policy if the fees had 
been made clearer. I say that because Im not aware of any reason why Mr A would 
have believed he would have needed to cancel his policy and he is likely to have paid 
fees for whichever policy he bought. He only cancelled the policy as he couldnt use his 
NCB and its likely that other policies [would have] included similar fees. So, I dont 
believe that Mr A would not have entered into the contract if he had known about the 
non-refundable fees.
Setting up and cancelling the policy would have taken Acorn time and resources. And 
Acorns ToIB allow it to apply the fees. So, I think Acorn was entitled to charge Mr A for 
the work it carried out. As I dont think that Mr A would have done anything differently if 
the fees had been clear and I dont find the fees particularly high or unusual I dont 
intend to require Acorn to refund any of them.
Mr A did not agree with the outcome I intended to reach. He said that while the entire sales 
journey had been considered, he thought the policy document should be the leading 
reference when determining the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. Mr A said the 
policy is the contract between the parties and should supersede information on third party 
websites. He said that the policy document was the final and binding agreement. Mr A added 
that he did not cancel his policy out of choice but because of the additional premium 
charged. In view of this, Mr A asked me to reconsider my decision. 
Acorn did not respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the points Mr A has raised, I am not persuaded to depart from the 
outcome I reached in my provisional decision. 
As Mr A has said, the policy forms the contract between him and the insurer. However, I 
cannot comment on the actions of the insurer in this decision as this complaint is against 
Acorn, as the seller of the policy. That means I cannot comment on whether it was 
reasonable for the insurer to require Mr A to pay an additional premium or to not include 
details in its policy about which NCB it allows a policyholder to use. I can only consider 
whether Acorn made any errors when administrating the policy and whether it was 
reasonable for Acorn to charge the fees that it did when Mr A cancelled his policy. 
When considering Acorns obligations when selling the policy to provide information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading, I do not think that the policy not including information about 
how the NCB can be used means that Acorn made an error. This is because I think how the 
NCB could be used was clearly set out within the sales process and I do not think Acorn 
made an error by not reiterating this. 
I recognise that Mr A felt that he had little choice but to cancel the policy. However, it remains that he did cancel the policy. And I dont think that his decision to cancel the policy 
was due to anything Acorn did wrong. Therefore, I looked at whether Acorn did anything else 
wrong during the sales process which means that it would not be fair and reasonable for it to 
charge the fees. However, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I am not 
persuaded that it was unreasonable for Acorn to charge for the work it did in setting up and 
cancelling the policy. 
Therefore, while I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed, for the reasons set out here and in 
my provisional decision, I believe that Acorn acted fairly by requiring Mr A to pay the fees 
associated with setting up and cancelling his policy.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman