DRN-3764485
Complaint
Mr B says HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) irresponsibly provided him with an overdraft and 
allowed him to continue using it after it had already been made aware he was vulnerable and 
struggled to manage money.
Mr B is being assisted and represented in his complaint by his mother Mrs B.
Background
Mr Bs complaint was considered by a couple of investigators. And they thought that HSBC 
had irresponsibly provided the overdraft to Mr B and they said that the outstanding balance 
should be written off as a result. HSBC didnt properly respond to the investigators 
assessment. In any event, Mrs B, on Mr Bs behalf, disagreed so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman.
At this point I should make it clear that while Ive seen that Mrs B has referred to Mr B having 
difficulties obtaining a debit card correctly issued in his name. But as the second investigator 
has explained, this didnt form part of Mrs Bs original complaint and as this is a separate 
event  albeit in relation to the same current account  Im satisfied that Mrs B has to direct 
these concerns to HSBC in the first instance, before we can involve ourselves in these 
matters. So this decision is only looking at the complaint about Mr Bs overdraft.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Bs complaint.
HSBC needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
HSBC needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ive kept this all in mind when having looked at Mr Bs complaint and having done so Im 
upholding it.
HSBC says that Mr B passed its affordability checks which were based on declared income, 
information about his existing credit commitments obtained from a credit reference agency 
and an estimation of his essential spend. Ive thought about what HSBC has said and as this 
was an interest free student overdraft there is an argument for saying that a lighter touch 
affordability assessment would be proportionate  especially as theres no expectation for 
the borrower to repay the facility until after the enter the workplace.  
That said, it isnt in dispute that Mr B visited a HSBC branch with his mother in December 
2018. During the review which took place it was made clear to HSBC that Mr B was 
vulnerable because he was unable to manage his money or check his account balance prior 
to making spending decisions. HSBCs later notes appear to show that Mrs B was set up as 
a third-party on Mr Bs account so she could help him monitor things and a nil marker was 
recorded on the account too. 
I cant know for sure what exactly happened afterwards. Although it appears as though Mr B 
asked HSBC to remove his mother as a third-party for his financial affairs, as he was 
permitted to do, and then went on to have a student account with an overdraft when he went 
to university. I think that HSBC had to respect Mr Bs wishes as he was entitled to make 
such a decision. 
However, even though HSBC was entitled to respect Mr Bs wishes in relation to removing 
any third-party and consider any applications for financial services products, I nonetheless 
think that it ought to have kept in mind that Mr B still remained vulnerable and take additional 
steps to ensure that he was better able to manage his finances than he had been previously 
before deciding to lend to him. And HSBC needed to factor this into any decision to grant 
credit to Mr B. 
Despite having been provided with plenty of opportunity to do so, HSBC has provided 
nothing at all to show that it took reasonable steps to factor in what it had already been told 
about Mr B previously into its decision making. So it seems clear to me that there was a 
significant risk that Mr B would struggle to repay an overdraft, or credit, of any description 
and HSBC took no steps at all to mitigate the risks here. In these circumstances, and having 
been told of Mr Bs circumstances, I have to question how and why HSBC thought it was 
appropriate to grant him an overdraft facility. 
I would normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit it 
provided irresponsibly  such as HSBC did here. And if those interest and charges were paid 
also add 8% simple interest per year. But I cant ignore the fact that by granting Mr B an 
overdraft, even though he may have requested it and it was interest free, HSBC ran the risk 
a vulnerable customer (as it identified Mr B was) could run up a debt he wouldnt be able to 
pay and which could cause significant hardship. 
That risk has now materialised and Mr B has been left with a debt that he wont be able to 
repay without experiencing significant hardship. Given the circumstances and what I 
understand to be Mr Bs current financial position, I think that the fair and reasonable thing 
for HSBC to do here would be to write off the entire outstanding balance remaining on the 
overdraft. 
I turn now to Mr Bs credit file. Wed typically expect a lender to remove any adverse 
information on a loan, from the borrowers credit file, where a complaint is upheld for 
irresponsible lending. However, I dont think that doing this would be the fair and reasonable 
thing to do here given what Im asking HSBC to do in terms of Mr Bs overdraft balance. 
To explain, the basis for Mr Bs complaint was and is that hes a vulnerable consumer who 
cant manage credit and his difficulties were made worse by HSBCs decision to give him an overdraft in October 2020. Ive accepted that this is the case and this is the very reason why 
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. I know Mrs B is worried about the potential impact adverse 
information being recorded on Mr Bs credit file might have. However, it would be unfair and 
unreasonable in its logic for me to reach the finding that Mr Bs overdraft balance should be 
written off, but then depart from it in terms of Mr Bs credit file going forward. 
Indeed, Im mindful that Mr B was able to obtain credit from HSBC despite it having 
information about his inability to manage his finances which other lenders simply wont have. 
In these circumstances, it seems to me that removing adverse information from Mr Bs credit 
file, which would in effect record that he repaid this overdraft in full and on time when this 
didnt happen, would increase the chances of him borrowing more. In my view, this would be 
counterproductive and arguably not in his best interests, or those of any potential lender. 
So while Ive thought about what Mrs B has said and accept she wont agree, I think its fair 
and reasonable for HSBC to reflect what Im telling it to do in relation to the outstanding 
balance and record it wrote off a balance on Mr Bs overdraft on his credit file. Mr B may 
even find that this will result in him only being offered Basic bank accounts which may be 
more appropriate as he wont be able to have borrowing facilities on such an account.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having carefully considered everything, I think that HSBC should do the following to put 
things right:
Write off the outstanding balance on Mr Bs overdraft; and 
HSBC can and should record that it wrote off an outstanding balance on this 
overdraft on Mr Bs credit file but this should be backdated to January 2021, which is 
roughly around the first point that it would have been able to take corrective action in 
relation to Mr Bs overdraft. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman