DRN-3580680
The complaint
Mr Ws representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited, referred to as the business or Sun Life.  
In short, the CMC said the advice was unsuitable because:
Mr W had no previous investment experience. 
He was 24 years of age and didnt need life cover. 
Its unclear why he was advised to invest for 25 years. 
His returns were less than the going interest rate. 
What happened
In December 1984, Mr W was advised to invest in a Maximum Investment Plan (referred to 
as the plan or MIP) for a term of 25 years. The plan was a Unit-Linked investment, that 
included life cover and was considered suitable for personal savings. 
In total Mr W paid £6,000. Upon maturity, in December 2009, he received back £9,892. 
In October 2021, the CMC complained on behalf of Mr W. Sun Life initially objected to 
jurisdiction but later accepted that we were able to consider the merits of this complaint, but 
it didnt uphold the complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Theres limited information available from the point of sale in 1984. 
The rules, as set out by the Financial Services Act (FSA) 1986  which came into 
force on 29 April 1988  applied thereafter.  Before then, there was no requirement 
for an adviser to make a detailed record of the point of sale discussions.
The adviser was simply required to provide a plan that suited the consumers need at 
the time. The adviser wasnt required to assess Mr Ws attitude to risk or keep a 
record of the alternative products discussed. 
In this case the money was split equally between the Managed Fund and the Equity 
Fund, and included life cover for tax purposes. 
When the plan started Mr W was sent key plan documentation that set out the terms 
and conditions of the plan. Subsequently, valuation statements were sent and upon 
surrender Mr W received more than hed paid in. 
In relation to paperwork retention  with regards to COBS 9.5.2  the business hasnt 
done anything wrong. 
Other than Mr W being 24 years of age at the time and employed, neither party has 
provided any more information about Mr Ws situation at the time. 
In the absence of the usual documentation  such as a fact find and suitability letter 
setting out Mr Ws investment experience and objectives  hes unable to conclude 
that the recommendation was inappropriate. 
In other words, hes unable to say that the business didnt follow the rules that 
applied at the time or behaved unreasonably.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
maintained that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator having considered the 
additional points wasnt persuaded to change his mind. In summary, he said:
Despite the lack of documentation, the CMC wants him to uphold this complaint but 
its not something he can do. 
Hes followed our service approach and is surprised that the CMC wants an 
ombudsmans decision. 
Having considered the evidence, hes not minded to uphold the complaint, just 
because Mr W is unhappy.  
The CMC disagreed with investigators view and said:
The sale of a 25 yr unit linked endowment savings plan to someone who had no investment 
experience and was living at home with his parents and with a debt makes absolutely no 
sense regardless of whether the advice was in 1984 or 1994. It is quite frankly poor advice.
You say that there is no paperwork, but you dont need any paperwork to see how bad the 
advice was. This is obvious to anyone.
Can you please actually explain to us why someone in [Mr Ws] position would need a 25 
year unit linked endowment savings plan that included life cover he didnt need?
We find it highly frustrating when we see the inconsistency in the decisions being received. 
Your findings are completely at odds with the Ombudsman decision we received for a 
virtually identical sale..
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same 
reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation was inappropriate for Mr W. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and Sun Life and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. As a 
fresh pair of eyes looking at the complaint, its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
The CMC will be aware that ombudsmen are not bound by the decisions of other 
ombudsman or adjudicators. Every case is considered on its own merits and no two cases 
are exactly the same. Even the tiniest factual difference can make a difference in outcome. 
Because Mr W took out the plan in 1984, before the FSA1986 came into force in 1988, there 
were different requirements when giving advice  arguably there was less protection. The 
common law duty to act with reasonable skill and care when making a recommendation applied, rather than the suitability requirement which applied afterwards. In other words, any 
recommendation had to be appropriate for the consumers circumstances (i.e. a 
reasonable fit). And I have to consider this complaint in this context.
Crucially, I note Sun Life wasnt required to complete a fact find document (or a suitable 
alternative to know your customer), record Mr Ws personal and financial circumstances or 
issue a suitability letter, detailing why the recommendation was made. Its possible that one 
was completed but I havent seen it. 
Nevertheless, Im aware that businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely, so I 
cant blame Sun Life for not being able to provide more information about the sale of the 
plan. In other words, just because the business cant provide more information about the 
sale of a plan that took place almost 40 years ago doesnt mean it has done anything wrong. 
In the circumstances for example there isnt a record of alternative products being 
discussed, but that doesnt mean that they werent. Like the investigator I dont find that I can 
safely conclude that the recommendation wasnt appropriate at the time based on the limited 
available information. 
 
I appreciate what the CMC says, and the question it posed to the investigator  Can you 
please actually explain to us why someone in Mr Ws (name anonymised) position would 
need a 25 year unit linked endowment savings plan that included life cover he didnt need?
But Im not required to explain why someone in Mr Ws position might want a 25-year Unit 
Linked plan. In this instance Im unable to simply conclude that a 25-year Unit-Linked plan 
wasnt something appropriate for him at the time.  
In this case Ive not seen any evidence that Mr W was led to believe that the plan, although a 
longer-term contract, was an appropriate medium-term savings plan for example. In fairness, 
Ive seen no evidence from the point of sale that Mr W specifically wanted a medium-term 
plan.
I note according to the CMC, Mr W was in his mid-20s, employed and living at home with his 
parents. On balance I cant say that he wasnt at all interested in long term savings  I note 
Mr W maintained the plan for the 25-year term and at no point raised any issues. Therefore, 
I cant safely say that a qualifying MIP was inappropriate for him, particularly in the absence 
of any information about why he wanted a plan of this length. 
I also note that Mr W was paying a monthly contribution, and theres nothing to suggest that 
it was unaffordable or unsuitable. I note Mr W deferred his investment from 2008 to 2009.
Im aware the plan had an element of life cover which is usually at a nominal monthly cost. In 
my view this wasnt unsuitable just because he was single with no dependants at the time. 
Given Mr Ws young age and the low sum assured  on balance I dont think it would have 
had a significant impact (if any) on the overall performance of the plan. On balance Im 
unable to safely conclude the inclusion of life cover in this instance made the plan 
inappropriate. The cover was likely to benefit his parents/family in the event of his untimely 
death.  
In my opinion surrendering the plan after 25 years and complaining almost 15 years after, 
doesnt in my mind suggest he was dissatisfied with the plan. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say the plan was 
inappropriate or mis-sold.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman