DRN-4056943
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, in that:
The benefit would cover not only the purchase cost but also the finance costs.
The savings from the reduced electricity bills alone would see the solar panels be 
self-funding within the loan term.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Ikano didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given, prior to agreeing to 
the purchase, clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-
funding. 
While Mr M was given written information on the first-year feed-in tariff payments, he was not 
given anything in writing prior to the sale setting out what his electricity savings and total 
benefit would be in the first year or in subsequent years. So, Mr M had to rely on what he 
was told by the salesperson at the time he entered into the contract. 
A handover pack was provided post-installation which contained estimated benefits that 
showed the system was not self-funding annually or over the loan term. But that was several 
weeks after the purchase had been agreed, after the cooling-off period had expired and after 
the system was installed. So, I think at the time Mr M agreed to the purchase he had to rely 
on what he was told, which is that the system would be self-funding. And he wasnt given 
any information that contradicted that until it was too late for him to change his mind without 
penalty.
So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Ikano did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar panels 
over a ten-year period, so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Ikano needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Mr Ms loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr M, and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr M, and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wish/es to accept.
If Mr M has settled the loan, Ikano should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Ikano and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.5. Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding over a ten-year period.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman