DRN-3487822
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his account and 
loaded a Cifas marker against his name.
Background
In 2020, Mr S received a payment for £4,000 into his account. He withdrew this money over 
the counter in his local branch. The bank that sent this payment subsequently contacted 
NatWest to say that its customer had fallen victim to a scam and that the £4,000 were 
fraudulent funds. NatWest closed Mr Ss account and loaded a Cifas marker against his 
name.
Mr S was unhappy with its decision to do so and so he referred a complaint to this service.
It was allocated to an Investigator. Mr S gave the Investigator an explanation as to how hed 
received the £4,000 payment. He said hed been planning on buying a car and looked up 
potential vehicles online. He bumped into an individual while socialising  this individual was 
someone Mr S knew from his local area, but not someone he knew well. That person agreed 
to lend Mr S £2,000 to help him purchase a car. He had never loaned money to Mr S before 
and didnt specify when he wanted to be repaid. This individual told him that the money 
would be transferred from his mothers account, rather than his own.
Mr S said that he withdrew the money in cash straightaway because he wanted to be able to 
buy a car. He thought being a cash buyer would allow him to get a better deal. However, he 
said he discussed the situation with his parents who thought the arrangement wasnt a good 
idea and encouraged him to pay the money back to the person whod lent it to him. He says 
he then returned the money in cash.
The Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that NatWest had compelling 
evidence from the sending bank that the funds were fraudulent and that, while this didnt 
mean that Mr S was complicit, he didnt find his explanation credible. He was satisfied that 
NatWest had acted reasonably in relying on the evidence it had received from the sending 
bank and that this was sufficient to justify loading a Cifas marker against Mr Ss name.
Mr S disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. To file a Cifas marker, 
NatWest isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance in the National Fraud Database Handbook says that there 
must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted and that the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such 
that the member could confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr S received fraudulent funds. NatWest 
promptly received a notification from the sending bank that the £4,000 were the proceeds of 
a scam. It was, therefore, reasonable for NatWest to have had concerns about this payment. 
Mr S has essentially argued that, if he received fraudulent funds, he did so unknowingly and 
so its not fair and reasonable for NatWest to load a Cifas marker against his name.
Ive considered the evidence carefully and I dont think it supports the argument that Mr S 
wasnt involved. He has given an account of how he came to be in receipt of these funds 
which Ive set out in the background section of this decision. I agree with the Investigator that 
this explanation isnt credible.
I find it difficult to understand why someone who Mr S concedes he didnt know well would 
agree to lend him £2,000 after a fortuitous encounter in his local area. Its even more 
surprising to discover that this individual wasnt concerned about how or when Mr S would 
repay him. Mr S has been open with the Investigator about the adverse impact the 
coronavirus pandemic had on his personal finances. That makes it even more improbable 
that this individual would be willing to lend him money on such generous terms.
Im surprised Mr S didnt have any concern about the fact that he was told the payment 
would come from this individuals mother, rather than directly from him or the fact that he 
was told that he could borrow £2,000 but that when £4,000 was paid into his account, he 
withdrew the whole amount anyway. 
Im also unpersuaded that Mr S withdrew the funds in cash because he thought that would 
enable him to get the best deal on a second-hand car. From the version of events hes given 
us, he hadnt yet identified the car he wanted to buy at that point but was browsing relevant 
websites. Even if he wanted to buy a car with cash, this doesnt explain the urgency with 
which the money was withdrawn.
Overall, Im satisfied that NatWest met the evidential requirements for loading a Cifas marker 
set out in the National Fraud Database Handbook and so Im satisfied it acted fairly and 
reasonably in loading the marker.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman