DRN-3356849
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC have refused to refund any of the 
financial losses that resulted after they fell victim to a safe account scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs A were contacted by various individuals who pretended to 
work for their bank and/or the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These individuals 
persuaded Mr and Mrs A that the money they held with various providers was at risk of 
being stolen by unscrupulous employees and needed to be moved to safety, while 
investigations took place. 
Mr and Mrs A cashed in some investments they held, moved the money to a bank 
account in Mrs As name and then sent two payments, totalling £1,300,000, to an 
account Mr A had recently opened with an online currency exchange provider. The 
currency exchange providers underlying corporate account was held with Barclays. Mr A 
then transferred the money on to an account held with an overseas bank, which was 
under the scammers control.
Mr and Mrs A had been warned they might lose all their money if they told anyone what 
was happening. But, on 3 November 2019, Mrs A told her son what had been going on, 
after she was led to believe that some bank employees had been arrested and their 
money would soon be returned. Her son realised the individuals whod purported to be 
their bank and FCA employees were actually fraudsters. The scam was then reported to 
Barclays.
Barclays refused to refund the money Mr and Mrs A had paid away to the fraudsters. It 
said it would have had no involvement with the payment instruction itself. But noted it 
carries out robust Know Your Customer and anti-money laundering checks when 
opening new accounts and through the life of the account.
I issued a provisional decision last month setting out what elements of the complaint I had 
jurisdiction to consider and why I didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. I have 
reproduced my provisional findings here:
Our service isnt able to consider every complaint referred to us. Sometimes a complaint 
may fall outside our jurisdiction, which means we dont have the legal power to consider it. 
Our jurisdiction is set out in the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP), which form part of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook and are available online.
DISP 2.7.1R sets out that the Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider a complaint 
if its brought by, or on behalf of, an eligible complainant. There are two parts to this test. 
The first is that the person bringing the complaint needs to fall into one of the categories of 
persons listed. And Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs A meet the definition of a consumer. The 
second part is that the complaint must arise from a certain, specified relationship with the 
business complained about. A full list of these relationships can be found at DISP 2.7.6R.
Ive considered all those relationships but the only one that enables Mr and Mrs A to be 
considered eligible complainants is DISP 2.7.6R(2B). This says: the complainant is a 
person who has transferred funds as a result of an alleged authorised push payment fraud 
and both a) the respondent is (or was) involved in the transfer of the funds; and b) the 
complaint is not a PSD complaint. 
Further guidance is provided at DISP 2.7.7G which says: DISP 2.7.6R(2B) includes any 
complaint that the respondent did not do enough to prevent, or respond to, an alleged 
authorised push payment fraud. 
The DISP 2.7.6R(2B) relationship was introduced and came into effect on 31 January 2019. 
This is evidenced in the FCAs DISP TP1 Transitional Provisions - point 46 of which says 
DISP 2.7.6R(2B) applies in relation to a complaint concerning an act or omission which 
occurs on or after 31 January 2019. So I can only consider acts or omissions by Barclays 
relating to the account in question that took place on or after that date.
With this in mind, one of Mr and Mrs As complaint points is that Barclays didnt carry out 
appropriate checks when allowing the currency exchange provider to open its account. But 
Barclays has told us that the account was opened before 31 January 2019 so I cant 
consider that aspect of Mr and Mrs As complaint. Nor can I consider any activity on the 
account that might potentially have warranted intervention by Barclays which took place 
before 31 January 2019.
But, as Ive already said, I can consider whether Barclays did all they should have to try to 
prevent Mr and Mrs As losses relating to acts or omissions that took place on or after 
31 January 2019. This includes whether it ought to have had concerns about the disputed 
payments going into and out of the currency exchange providers corporate account and 
whether it responded appropriately after being notified about the fraud.
Having done so, I dont currently think I can fairly instruct Barclays to refund the payments 
Mr and Mrs A were tricked into making to the currency exchange account. Ill explain why.
Im currently satisfied its more likely than not the disputed payments were in line with the 
expected activity for the type of account that received the funds and its normal operation. As 
such, I dont currently think Barclays ought reasonably to have had concerns such that it 
ought to have intervened. 
Upon notification of fraud, a receiving bank is expected to take action immediately to prevent 
any further loss of funds. But, due to the nature of the account into which the payments were 
made, it wasnt the case that Barclays could simply block the currency exchange providers 
account and return any funds which remained. The process Barclays should have followed 
after being notified about the fraud claim was to, without undue delay, make its 
accountholder (the currency exchange provider) aware of the claim, request confirmation 
about whether any money remained and upon receipt of this information share it with 
Mrs As bank. 
Barclays says it reached out to the currency exchange provider approximately eight hours 
after it was notified about the fraud. It hasnt provided any evidence (such as 
contemporaneous internal notes) to support that assertion. And, in any event, I think it 
should have acted more promptly. But, on balance, I dont think its failure to do so means it 
should be held responsible for Mr and Mrs As financial loss. I say this because by the time 
Barclays knew about the fraud, Mr A had already sent the money on to the scammers to an overseas account. So in the particular circumstances of this complaint I dont think there was 
a reasonable prospect of recovery even if Barclays had properly notified its account holder 
about the fraud claim.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A have lost a lot of money and fallen victim to a cruel scam. But I 
can only make an award against a bank if that bank has done something wrong which led to 
a loss. In this case, from what Ive seen there hasnt been a failing by Barclays which has 
resulted in Mr and Mrs As loss. As a result, I cant fairly or reasonably ask it to refund their 
money.
In response, Mr and Mrs A said they were disappointed with my findings. They also 
resubmitted a letter they had shared prior to my provisional decision being issued, which 
included comments about both this and two other complaints that relate to this fraud. They 
noted that I had not addressed all of their points. And, in relation to this complaint against 
Barclays, they asked whether the bank did enough to recover the money that passed 
through the currency exchange providers account.
Barclays agreed with my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision 
and reproduced above. Mr and Mrs A have said I didnt address the points theyd made, but I 
disagree. I specifically set out what Barclays was required to do having been notified about 
the fraud and the reason why I didnt think there was a reasonable prospect of recovery.  
And, in all the circumstances, I cant fairly or reasonably tell Barclays to refund their money.
My final decision
My final decision is that there are some aspects of Mr and Mrs As complaint that I cannot 
consider and I do not uphold the aspects that I can consider.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman