DRN-2278301
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund a disputed transaction made 
from his account.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr Cs HSBC account was debited by £323 which went to an online betting 
website. Mr C says that he didnt make this transaction and that he believes someone at the 
betting website made the transaction without his knowledge.
Mr C says on the day of the transaction he had won a football bet, and when checking his 
online betting account later he noticed that the balance didnt appear right. Mr C says he 
tried to take the funds out but couldnt. So, he withdrew what he thought hed won and 
gambled the rest of the funds, bringing his betting account balance back to the amount he 
thought it should have been. Mr C says he doesnt live with anyone and no one else has 
access to his card or his login information for the online betting website.
Mr C says he contacted HSBC and asked them to stop the transaction from going through 
but was told this wasnt possible. So, he raised a complaint with HSBC saying they shouldve 
stopped the payment and that the payment shouldve flagged as unusual and been 
prevented by HSBC.
HSBC looked into Mr Cs complaint, but declined to refund the transaction saying:
the transaction wasnt unusual activity on Mr Cs account, so the payment wouldnt 
have flagged
they are unable to raise a chargeback for transactions to betting sites
Mr C wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt there had most likely 
been some confusion around Mr Cs betting account balance, but that Mr C had authorised 
the transaction. They also explained that Mr C had had the benefit of the funds through 
making additional bets on the site. And they didnt feel the payment was so significantly 
higher than previous genuine payments, that it shouldve flagged to HSBC.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying hed called HSBC while the 
transaction was in motion and asked them to stop the transaction. Also, that we should pass 
the details of his case over to the police as he believes the online betting site is guilty of 
unauthorised use of his personal account.
The investigator responded to Mr C and let him know that HSBC couldnt stop the 
transaction when he called, as it had already been processed. Mr C remained dissatisfied 
with the investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself.
HSBC has provided evidence that Mr Cs card details were used to authenticate the 
payment on the online betting site. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr C consented to the transaction being 
made.
The betting site has provided a statement of Mr Cs account with them. This shows that Mr C 
opened an account with them approximately a month before the transaction hes disputing. 
And that the funds taken from Mr Cs HSBC account of £323 were credited to the online 
betting account also held in Mr Cs name. On the same day as this disputed transaction went 
through Mr C made a small deposit to his betting account of £10. But over the two days 
following this, he withdrew a total of £180 from his betting account which was credited back 
to his HSBC account. Reviewing the statements, I can see Mr C had used his betting 
account fairly regularly since he opened it, and all of the transactions on his betting account 
match corresponding transactions on his HSBC account.
 
Mr C has told us that he had a win and had withdrawn what he thought hed won and 
gambled the rest of the funds, and I think its highly likely that Mr C mayve made the £323 
payment in error. But regardless, Im persuaded that the £323 was paid to Mr Cs betting 
account. I think Mr C has had the benefit of these funds either through the withdrawals he 
made in the following days or through bets he made on the betting website. I havent seen 
anything that suggests anyone else had access to or use of these funds, other than Mr C.
And from what Ive seen Mr C called HSBC after the transaction had been authorised, so 
they wouldnt have been able to cancel the transaction as the funds wouldve already been 
credited to his online betting account and were available for use. 
I appreciate that Mr C is convinced that staff at the online betting site have taken the funds 
without his authorisation, but this complaint is against HSBC. And I can only look at HSBCs 
actions in this case and whether they have acted fairly in not refunding Mr C.
Mr C raised a point about the transaction being unusual, saying he felt it shouldve flagged 
with HSBC and not been processed. But the payment is quite small, and considering Mr Cs 
previous account use, I wouldnt have expected it to flag with HSBC as particularly unusual 
or out of character.
I realise that Mr C is going to be very disappointed, but I think its more likely than not that he 
authorised the payment of £323. Therefore, I cant fairly say that HSBC was wrong in holding 
Mr C liable for the payment and I wont be asking HSBC to refund him.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman