DRN-2976642
The complaint
 Miss G has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) continued 
charging her excessive amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
 
What happened
 Miss G complained to Halifax about the amount of credit provided to her and that its 
overdraft charges caused her extreme financial difficulty. She said the extra cost made her 
overdraft more difficult to repay. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss G was 
dissatisfied they referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Gs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Halifax 
ought to have realised that Miss G was experiencing financial difficulty by 18 June 2015 and 
so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Halifax didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from 18 June 
2015. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss G was in no position to sustainably 
repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Miss G was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. Halifaxs own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Miss Gs overdraft usage should have prompted Halifax to have realised that 
Miss G wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As Halifax didnt react to Miss Gs overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss G ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Halifax 
didnt treat Miss G fairly and she lost out because of what Halifax did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Gs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Gs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after the renewal on 18 June 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Miss G to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Gs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 18 June 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss G along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Gs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Gs complaint. Bank of Scotland plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman