DRN-4188465
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society sent his personal information to an 
incorrect address which led to his identity being stolen. 
What happened
In July 2021, Mr P - an existing Nationwide customer - applied for a mortgage account with 
it. He says at the time of his mortgage application, he changed his old address to his current 
address (the address on the mortgage application). Around August 2021, Mr P says he 
visited his local Nationwide branch where he converted his joint account to a sole account 
and confirmed his current address with the branch staff. Mr P says he also made a claim on 
his home contents insurance and during the claims process, he used his current address. Mr 
P says hes received mortgage statements to his current address since August 2021.
Around June 2022, while working abroad, Mr P noticed a number of credit applications were 
taken out in his name (as he regularly checks his credit score). He also noticed fraudulent 
direct debits had been set up on his Nationwide current account. Mr P contacted Action 
Fraud along with all relevant parties to report the matter. Mr P says it wasnt until a 
conversation with Nationwide that it disclosed it had sent documents containing his personal 
data to his old address. In the following months, Mr P had to contact multiple companies 
(from abroad) and close down accounts that had been fraudulently opened in his name. The 
fraudulent accounts have since been closed but Mr P says the entire ordeal has been very 
stressful for him. Hes also incurred overseas call costs to resolve the issues he wouldnt 
have otherwise incurred but for Nationwides error.  
Nationwide issued its final response explaining that it had requested indemnities for each of 
the disputed direct debit payments which were refunded. It said his address across his 
accounts had been updated to his current address since his notification. Nationwide didnt 
accept liability for Mr Ps identity being stolen because it says he didnt update his address 
on any other products he held with it. It highlighted he would have been notified at the time 
of his mortgage application that he needed to update the address on any other products he 
holds with it. It confirmed monthly statements were being sent by post to his old address. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators didnt think Nationwide should have done anything differently. He 
couldnt find any evidence that Mr P had updated the address on all of his accounts in 2021 
and he felt Nationwide was clear in its notification that it wouldnt automatically do this with 
his new mortgage. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans final decision. The complaint has 
therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I dont doubt that Mr P has been the victim of identity fraud, hes provided evidence 
from various lenders confirming this. But even though Im satisfied Mr Ps identity has been 
stolen, I dont find Nationwide was the cause. 
In Mr Ps complaint form he says he changed his address with Nationwide at the time of his 
mortgage application (July 2021). But in correspondence with our investigator he says he 
changed his address on 6 August 2021  when he attended a branch to change his joint 
account to a sole account. This is conflicting information, so I have to make a determination 
on what I think was most likely to have happened in light of Mr Ps testimony and the 
information provided by Nationwide. 
Nationwide says that Mr P updated his correspondence requirements to receive paper 
statements on 30 April 2021 (prior to the date he says he changed his address with 
Nationwide). I think Nationwide wouldve likely sent at least two paper statements to his 
correct address for his current and credit card accounts. And so, I think he reasonably ought 
to have expected to continue to receive paper statements when he moved. I note Mr P 
works abroad but hes advised that he was receiving his mortgage statements to his current 
address, so I think he ought to have noticed that his paper statements for his other accounts 
werent being received sooner than July 2022 if hed updated his address as he describes. 
Ive seen evidence of Mr Ps branch visit in August 2021. However the form he completed 
converting his joint account to a sole account included details of his old address not his 
current address and he signed this form. Theres no further evidence showing he changed 
his address at this time but Ive seen Nationwides records of Mr P notifying it of address 
changes on 12 December 2019 and 15 July 2022 and visiting a branch for a separate matter 
in May 2021.  
Mr Ps testimony about changing his address at the time of his mortgage application appears 
to have changed as he says he attended a branch the following month to (amongst other 
things), change his address. 
Im therefore not persuaded that Mr Ps testimony is entirely credible. Nationwide also holds 
records of his branch visits along with the dates hes previously updated his address. I dont 
think its plausible that Nationwide wouldnt hold details of a change of address in August 
2021 when it holds records to show he converted his joint account to a sole account at this 
time. I think if Mr P had updated his address at this time, Nationwide would have likely 
recorded it. In absence of any credible supporting evidence, I dont think Mr P updated his 
address with Nationwide in July or August 2021. 
I appreciate Mr P believes the onus was on Nationwide to notify him that he held accounts 
with different correspondence addresses, but I dont agree. I dont think its unreasonable 
that Nationwide would expect customers to update them of an address change for other 
accounts held at the time of a mortgage application. For example, a customer may not be 
moving into the mortgage address immediately and its not for Nationwide to make 
assumptions about the requirements of its customers correspondence addresses. 
The evidence provided from Nationwide states that Mr P wouldve seen the following 
notification around the time of his mortgage application:
We wont have updated your address for any other products you have with us, so its 
important to make sure you tell us about this change. 
Im therefore satisfied that when Mr P applied for his mortgage, Nationwide did enough to let 
him know that it wouldnt be changing his address on his other accounts. Even if I were to agree that Mr P changed his address with Nationwide in the way he 
describes  for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think this happened. I cant agree that his 
identity being stolen flows from this incident. Its apparent the fraudulent activity occurred 
from around July 2022 when multiple fraudulent applications with various lenders were 
carried out in a short space of time. But Mr Ps Nationwide correspondence was being sent 
to his old address for almost a year prior to the fraudulent activity, so it doesnt seem that 
this alone caused the problem and an intervening act happened towards the middle of 2022. 
Most lenders require identification documents as well as proof of address verification to open 
new accounts. So whilst I could hypothetically accept that a fraudster couldve used Mr Ps 
statements from Nationwide as proof of address, they wouldve likely needed his 
identification too. I think its more likely that a fraudster had access to more than Mr Ps 
Nationwide correspondence to have stolen his identity and theres nothing to suggest that 
Nationwide would have sent Mr Ps identification to his old address. So I dont find that 
Nationwide would have caused Mr Ps identity to be stolen, albeit I could accept the 
correspondence may have been a contributing factor.
I empathise with the fact that Mr P will need to closely monitor his credit report in case of any 
fraudulent activity for some time to come, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Nationwide are to blame for this. I dont find that Mr P changed his address with Nationwide 
in respect of his non-mortgage related accounts until July 2022. And therefore, it cant be 
responsible for his personal information getting into the wrong hands as it did what it was 
required to do by sending his correspondence to the address it held on file for him. 
Im pleased to see that some of the lenders have placed protective fraud markers on Mr Ps 
credit file to alert other lenders of his identity being stolen. This should mitigate some of his 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathy for the circumstances Mr P finds himself in, 
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman