DRN-2237642
The complaint
Mr O says Morses Club PLC irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one home credit loan Morses provided to Mr O in November 2019. 
Mr Os loan was for £300, repaid in instalments of £15 per week. At the time of writing this 
decision the loan remains outstanding. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint and thought Morses checks for the loan went 
far enough. Mr O disagreed and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for 
review. He didnt think Morses checks went far enough  and had it done proportionate 
checks it would have found he was struggling financially. 
As Mr O asked for am ombudsmans review, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Os complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought Morses checks didnt go far 
enough, and it should have been aware that he was struggling financially. So, it shouldnt 
have lent to him.
Morses has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the borrowing. 
It has said it asked Mr O about his employment status and he confirmed he was employed 
and had a weekly income of around £300. Morses also checked Mr Os normal weekly living 
costs. Mr O declared these as £134 per week. And even though he had to make weekly 
repayments, the highest combined weekly repayment would have appeared affordable 
based on the information he had declared to Morses. So there doesnt appear to be anything 
in that information that ought to have prompted Morses to do further checks.
Mr O has provided a copy of his credit report and this shows that at the time he took out this 
loan he had several defaults and outstanding debts. He was also in a few debt management 
plans. But this was Mr Os first loan with Morses so I wouldnt have expected Morses to carry 
out more detailed checks at such an early stage in the borrowing relationship. So Morses 
wouldnt have been aware of Mr Os financial difficulties. 
So, I think it was reasonable of Morses to have relied on what Mr O told it. I think these 
factors had an impact on what level of checks would have been appropriate for Morses to 
carry out. Given these, I think the checks Morses did before lending the loan went far 
enough and the checks it carried out showed the loan was affordable. So, I wouldnt have 
expected Morses at this stage to undertake any more in-depth checks. 
The information Mr O declared to Morses at the time of taking the loan out may not have 
been an accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Morses was entitled to 
rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Morses knew 
about   Mr O, I wouldnt have expected Morses to verify the information Mr O gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that Morses have done something wrong in lending to Mr O. 
I appreciate that Mr O has put a lot of time and effort into his complaint and my findings are 
likely to disappoint him. But I hope my explanation will help him understand why Ive reached 
this conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Os complaint and make no award against Morses Club PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman