DRN-4198226
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Haven Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
referred him to its Straight to Salvage (S2S) service as opposed to allowing a claim under 
his motor insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Haven includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ks car was damaged by a third party and so he called Haven to claim on his car 
insurance policy. Rather than claiming on his car insurance policy he was referred by Haven 
to its S2S service which was outside Mr Ks policy as it was believed he wasnt at fault for 
the accident. This service allowed Mr Ks vehicle (the salvage) to be sold and a credit hire 
service used with an eye on looking to recover any outlay for any hire car costs incurred and 
the total loss settlement directly from the third-party insurer as opposed to making a claim 
through Mr Ks insurance policy.  
However, Mr Ks car was sold before liability was fully established and the third party 
subsequently disputed liability. And as Mr Ks car had already been sold Haven couldnt 
return his car to him. As Mr K didnt think this was fair he complained to Haven and then this 
Service about this. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He explained that this Service couldnt look into 
the credit hire aspect of this claim. However, he thought it was clear Mr K shouldnt have 
been referred to a credit hire company or the Straight to Salvage service as liability was 
clearly in dispute at the time of claim. Haven had offered to pay Mr K the cost if gained for 
the salvage of his car (£525) and £150 compensation, but our investigator thought the 
compensation should be lifted to £300. He also thought Haven should pay Mr K the full 
market value of his car. This was because he thought Mr K was unlikely to have made a 
claim under his insurance policy, if he was properly advised, as his excess was close to the 
market value of his car. And it wasnt possible to gauge the cost to repair his car, as Haven 
had allowed his car (the salvage) to be sold before liability was established. 
Haven initially agreed to the investigators view. But when it considered matters further it 
changed its position slightly. It felt that Mr K would have had to pay his excess if he made a 
claim under his insurance policy, so it wanted to deduct the excess from the market value of 
his car and the settlement. So the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree this complaint should be upheld. And as both sides agree with this 
position, in the main, I dont propose to go over the finer detail of the complaint. I will just 
look at the proposed redress. 
In this case Haven referred Mr K to its credit hire and S2S service but it is clear liability was 
still in dispute at that point in time and so this shouldnt have happened. Haven has accepted 
this, and I agree that Mr K shouldve been clearly advised about the options available to him 
and he shouldnt have been passed over to a credit hire company or S2S as liability was in 
dispute. 
Haven should act in the best interests of its consumer and pointing Mr K towards credit hire 
in circumstances like this, when liability was in dispute, wasnt fair or in Mr Ks best interests. 
And I think its failure to advise Mr K about all of this, as Haven has accepted, was poor and 
Mr K should be compensated for this. Plus, it didnt explain that Mr K could have simply 
made a claim under his insurance policy which has impacted things greatly here  as Mr K 
could have simply made a claim under his policy and looked to claim his excess back 
directly from the third-party if liability was settled in his favour. 
Haven initially accepted it would be reasonable, given the above, that it should pay Mr K the 
market value of his car and £300 in compensation. But it went on to say that it wanted to 
deduct Mr Ks excess from this. This was because it thought Mr K would have had to pay 
this if he made a claim under his policy.
I accept Mr K would have to pay his excess if he made a claim, but he was starved of this 
opportunity. And I agree with our investigator that Mr K may have chosen to simply repair his 
car himself had he been properly advised. It is difficult to be sure what Mr K would or 
wouldnt have done but as he hasnt actually advanced a claim under his policy I dont think 
it would be fair to deduct this now. And I agree that had Mr K been made aware that he 
would have had to pay a high excess then it was likely he would have made the decision to 
repair the car himself, especially given its relatively low value and the fact the car was 
driveable at the time of claim. 
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is to try and put Mr K back into the position he would have been but for Havens 
error. 
So, Haven should pay Mr K the market value of his car, less the salvage amount it has 
already paid, and 8% simple interest for the time hes been without the money. And it should 
pay him £300 compensation for the stress and inconvenience all this has caused him as his 
car was sold for salvage when it shouldnt have been, as Haven has already agreed.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Haven 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr K the market value of his car, less the £525 he has 
already been paid for the salvage, and 8% simple interest for the shortfall from the date of 
claim until the date of settlement. Plus, £300 (total) compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman