DRN-3079532
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) has unfairly 
declined a claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy.
References to Accredited include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss A found water leaking into her conservatory, so she contacted Accredited to make a 
claim for storm damage. Accredited inspected the damage and declined it on the basis of the 
damage being the result of poor workmanship.
When Miss A complained, Accredited maintained its decision to decline the claim, as it said 
poor workmanship wasnt covered by the policy.
So, Miss A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
there werent storm conditions around the time of the claim and that, due to the poor 
workmanship, it also wasnt covered under the accidental damage part of the policy.
As Miss A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at the definition of a storm in the policy, which was:
Strong winds in excess of 47 knots (54 MPH) that may be accompanied by heavy rain, 
snow or sleet, prolonged rainfall and weight of snow.
Ive also looked at the weather reports around the time the damage occurred. There were 
winds around 48mph. However, this didnt meet the definition of a storm as given in the 
policy. So, I dont think Miss A had a valid claim for storm damage under the terms of the 
policy. As a result, I havent considered any of the other storm related questions, as I think 
the answer to the first question is no.
Ive checked Miss As policy and this showed she had accidental damage cover. This 
covered Sudden, unforeseen, and unintentional physical damage. So, Ive considered 
whether the damage could be covered under this part of the policy. When Accredited 
inspected the damage, it found some issues with the roof. In its report it said:
On inspection of the conservatory roof it was noted that the flashing detail and the finial 
piece have been replaced/ covered over with self-adhesive flash band.
This is a botched/sub standard repair and indicated historical issues with the roof.
Im aware that Miss A has said the inspection didnt take place at roof level. But it wasnt a 
requirement that it was inspected at roof level, so long as it was an appropriate inspection. 
The photos taken of the roof showed its condition, so Im satisfied that it was assessed 
appropriately.
Im also aware that Miss A said she had only recently moved to the property and nothing 
relevant had been identified in the reports during the property purchase. Miss A also 
provided photos of a roof panel that she had repaired as part of dealing with the leak. She 
said that if this issue had been pre-existing it would have been picked up in the survey when 
she was buying the property. 
Accrediteds inspection found pre-existing issues with the conservatory roof and decided that 
the roof leaked as a result of these. I dont think the issue with the roof panel changes that. 
Based on what the inspection found, I think it was reasonable for Accredited to rely on its 
experts report and to decide the damage was due to poor workmanship. Looking at the 
policy, it had an exclusion that said:
We do not cover any damage caused by: 

 misuse, faulty workmanship or design, or the use of faulty materials
So, on that basis, Im satisfied that there was no cover under the policy and that it was 
reasonable for Accredited to decline the claim on that basis. As a result, I dont require 
Accredited to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman