DRN-3215161
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited.
What happened
Mr S took receipt of a used car on or about 2 February 2021. He financed the deal through a 
hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited that he signed on 27 January 
2021. At the point of supply the car was about five and a half years old and had already 
completed about 49,000 miles. The transaction was completed remotely. 
Within the first 14 days Mr S complained to the dealership about a dent and a misaligned 
bumper. The dealership wouldnt repair the car and so on 10 February 2021 Mr S 
complained to MotoNovo. He said he wanted the car repaired and if that wasnt possible he 
wanted to reject the car.
MotoNovo paid for an independent inspection of the vehicle. The inspector did identify a dent 
to the wing and a slightly misaligned bumper. He also noted that some paint repairs had 
been completed in these areas and said they werent to manufacturing standards. However, 
when taking the overall age and mileage into account he didnt think the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
MotoNovo therefore refused to take any further action and our investigator agreed with their 
stance.
Mr S has asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S.
The independent inspector who is an expert in these matters doesnt think the damage Mr S 
identified was unusual for a car of this age and mileage. He has commented that the repairs 
are acceptable for a 6-year-old vehicle that has covered over 50,000 miles. 
Im persuaded by his expert opinion that a reasonable person would therefore consider the car to 
be of an acceptable standard when supplied and I dont think the damage present is sufficient to 
warrant rejection or repair. For those reasons Im not asking MotoNovo to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman