DRN-4238284
The complaint
Mr H complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Card 
(Argos) were unfair to charge him interest and report adverse information to his credit file. 
He says they failed to tell him a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) transaction was falling due for 
payment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Argos, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The terms and conditions of the BNPL account explain that a statement will be issued each 
month. Argos say they sent statements to Mr Hs email address and that they would only 
have sent paper copies if the emails werent opened. Those statements would have 
explained when the BNPL terms expired. 
Mr H has explained that when he made a subject access request to Argos the emails 
alerting him to statements werent included. Argos say that as there were no bounced emails 
it is clear the statements, that are automatically generated by a third party, must have been 
dispatched and read.
Ive considered whether Argos have been fair in the circumstances, and I dont think they 
have been. The terms of the account explained that they would remind Mr H the month 
before the BNPL was coming to an end, and that statements would be sent monthly. I dont 
think Ive seen sufficient evidence those documents were sent. Argos have provided 
template letters, but their systems dont show that emails were sent and, although Argos 
have explained the emails were sent by a third party company, Ive not seen date stamped 
evidence confirming dispatch from them either. Mr H paid the full balance as soon as he 
realised the error and I think its likely he would; therefore, have paid a few days earlier had 
he realised the payment was due.
Putting things right
In those circumstances, while its clear the responsibility to pay is Mr Hs, I think Argos could 
have been more reasonable and accepted Mr Hs explanation. Its for those reasons that I 
think it would be fair for them to remove the deferred interest of £978.98 along with any late 
payment fees, associated interest, and adverse credit markers they may have reported in 
relation to that debt.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Home Retail Group Card 
Services Limited to remove the deferred interest of £978.98 along with any late payment 
fees, associated interest, and adverse credit markers they may have reported in relation to 
that debt: and close his account as requested.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman