DRN-3674099
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Arrow Global Limited waited too long to default her account.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a consumer credit account that was sold to Arrow in August 2015. 
At the point Arrow bought it, it was in substantial arrears and had been in a long-term debt 
management plan with reduced payments since February 2015.
In mid-2017, Mrs G missed four further payments. In mid-2018, she missed one more 
payment and Arrow defaulted the account.
Mrs G has complained that she should have been defaulted back in 2015, meaning the 
default would have fallen off her credit file by now. She feels shes been effectively penalised 
for engaging with the debt and trying to make token payments.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. Arrow didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs G and Arrow a provisional decision on 15 August 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be mostly upheld. In that decision, I said:
By the time Arrow bought this account, it was quite clearly in a place to be defaulted. 
Looking at the accounts terms and payment history, it would have been more than six 
months in arrears, it was in a long-term debt management plan and so was very unlikely to 
return to the original terms any time soon, and given the original creditors decision to sell it 
on it seems they also thought Mrs G was unlikely to get back on track any time soon.
As our investigator explained, when Arrow bought the debt they became responsible for 
making sure it was being reported correctly. And it would have been reasonable for them to 
review things and default the account.
With that said, I also take Arrows point that they were just trying to keep the payment 
arrangement going, and trying to give Mrs G a chance to avoid defaulting at all. Though in 
the end, its worked out that Mrs G has been left in a worse position by constructively dealing 
with the debt than if shed just stopped paying back in 2015  so I also completely 
understand why she feels this has been unfair for her.
Ultimately, while this debt should probably have been defaulted in 2015, that was primarily 
the original creditors responsibility rather than Arrows  per the above, it was ready for a 
default before the sale to Arrow. So while Arrow could have  and arguably should have  
reviewed things upon buying the debt and placed a default, I think thats really a complaint 
better directed against the original creditor.
However, even if I dont hold Arrow responsible for not defaulting this in 2015, I still find that 
they defaulted Mrs G too late.
Under ICO guidelines, a default wouldve been due as soon as Mrs G missed any payments 
under her reduced payment arrangement. And in 2017, Mrs G missed four in succession. 
Indeed, four missed payments would be grounds for a default under normal circumstances, 
let alone under a reduced payment arrangement, and let alone when the customer was 
already in well over six months worth of arrears under the original contract.
So I dont think it was fair for Arrow to wait until 2018 to default this account. It follows that 
I plan to direct Arrow to backdate this default.
And if Im telling Arrow to backdate this default anyway, and Ive also found that it should 
have been defaulted back in 2015 (albeit by the original creditor), then on pragmatic grounds 
its better for Arrow to simply backdate this default to August 2015  which is also when they 
should have reviewed the account themselves, and could have fairly defaulted it. This will 
mean that the default will now fall off Mrs Gs credit file.
The alternative would be for me to tell Arrow to backdate the default to 2017 here, then for 
Mrs G to make a separate complaint to the original creditor, then for us to tell the original 
creditor to then backdate it again to 2015, then for Arrow to adjust their records again to 
match that. But that doesnt seem like a good use of anyones time. I think its better to do 
things this way.
Of course, since I think the original creditor were primarily responsible for the default not 
being registered in 2015, more so than Arrow, Im not planning to tell Arrow to pay Mrs G 
compensation here. If Mrs G would like us to consider compensation for her account not 
being defaulted in 2015, shell need to raise that complaint with the original creditor and then 
bring it to our service if shes unhappy with their response. She can also ask our investigator 
to help her get a case against the original creditor set up if she would like one.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
29 August 2022. Mrs G said she was happy with the provisional decision. Arrow 
acknowledged receipt of the decision, but we didnt receive any further evidence or 
arguments from them before the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Arrow Global Limited to backdate Mrs Gs default to August 2015. This will mean that 
the default will now fall off Mrs Gs credit file.My final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint in part, and direct Arrow Global Limited to backdate her default to 
August 2015. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman