DRN-3687453
The complaint
Mr N complains PRA Group (UK) Limited are asking him to repay a debt he says they 
shouldnt be. He also complains theyve recorded a default against his credit file for this 
alleged debt. 
.
A representative has supported Mr N in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ill just refer 
to him.
What happened
As I understand it, PRA say Mr N accrued a credit card debt with a company Ill call M which 
he defaulted on  PRA purchased the debt from M. The debt is reported on Mr Ns credit file 
as defaulted on 31 October 2018, with an outstanding balance of £4,751. Mr N disputes the 
existence of the debt and told PRA this. In doing so, he asked for the alleged Notice of 
Assignment (NoA) and a Deed of Assignment (DoA) in an unredacted form.
In that situation Id expect PRA to contact M and ask for relevant documents to establish the 
debt is legitimately owed by Mr N. This generally would include a copy of the original credit 
agreement and evidence of how the balance accrued, amongst other things depending on 
the type of lending. 
On 2 April 2021 PRA contacted Mr N and provided documents which they later said proved 
the debt was his. But said the original lender M couldnt provide a copy of the credit 
agreement. Because of this, they said the debt was unenforceable. They said this meant 
they couldnt enforce the agreement in court, but could legally still:
Contact Mr N and ask him to repay what he owed
Pass his details on to a third party debt collection agency
Report his account with the CRAs as appropriate
Mr N raised a complaint about this as he felt because the debt was unenforceable PRA 
shouldnt be reporting it to the CRAs  and he said there have been legal judgments which 
show him to be right. Hes also complaining the debt is being reported by both PRA and the 
original lender M.
PRA replied to the complaint, and in doing so provided a copy of the NoA, and said the DoA 
contains commercially sensitive information, as such they dont need to provide this. They 
also provided a reconstituted copy of the default notice and termination letter  which they 
said further evidences the default is correct. They said for this reason the legal judgment 
Mr N referred to doesnt apply  as that only says if the account isnt redeemably 
enforceable, but PRA said they thought Mr Ns agreement was.
In respect of the reporting of the default twice, PRA said this was normal. They explained 
Mr Ns account defaulted with M on 31 October 2018 and this would be recorded for six 
years. Following the sale of an account, PRA said the lender would usually update their 
entry to show as satisfied  as no money is owed to them anymore  and then the new 
owner would continue reporting a default. PRA considered the screenshots Mr N had 
provided from the CRAs and said they were reporting things correctly. So, overall, they 
didnt uphold his complaint on these points. But they accepted earlier responses theyd sent 
werent good enough, so offered Mr N £50.
Unhappy with this, Mr N asked us to look into things. As part of this approach, we contacted 
PRA for their file. They provided it and said they didnt hear back from Mr N about the £50, 
and said they could still send this out to him, or use it to reduce the outstanding balance.
One of our Investigators looked into things, and found PRA were acting fairly by continuing 
to report the default despite the account being unenforceable  and didnt think they were 
doing anything wrong in reporting the default now either even if it was also being reported by 
M.
Mr N didnt agree with this and referring back to the legal judgment he provided when 
contacting our service, said PRA werent acting correctly. Because of this, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to set out my remit. My role is to consider rules, regulations, industry 
best practice and to take into account the law  but my overriding remit is to consider things 
on a fair and reasonable basis. That means I can depart from the law, if Im satisfied its fair 
and reasonable to do so. If I do that, then I need to explain why Im doing that.
I also think its important to explain Im only considering a complaint against PRA  I cant 
comment on Ms actions or require them to do anything as part of this complaint. This is 
relevant because I think some of the issues Mr N is raising are likely best directed to M. 
Should PRA be reporting the debt as defaulted to the CRAs
In short yes, Im satisfied PRA arent acting incorrectly or unfairly by doing so.
Mr N is saying that because the debt is unenforceable, PRA shouldnt be reporting this to the 
CRAs. As I can see our Investigator explained, our service cant decide whether the debt is 
or isnt enforceable, only a court can do that.
Instead, our service will look at whether a debt purchaser / collector has acted fairly when 
notified of a dispute. When debt purchasers / collectors take over a debt quite often they 
wont have all the information to determine whether the debt is or isnt enforceable  so 
theyll need to contact the original lender. In this case, thats M.
The expectation here would have been for M to provide the relevant information to PRA, or, 
as M has, confirm if they dont have the information to provide.
Following M confirming it doesnt have a copy of the credit agreement PRA said the debt 
couldnt be enforced in court  but that doesnt mean the debt isnt still owed.
The information PRA got from M showed default letters being sent to Mr Ns address. If Mr N 
doesnt agree the debt was his, then hed need to raise that with M  as theyd be 
responsible for dealing with any concerns regarding this.
So, in effect, PRA have received information from M that shows the debt is unenforceable in 
court, but that also shows the debt is likely Mr Ns. Under those circumstances, theyve done what they should have, by telling Mr N his debt wasnt enforceable in court, but setting out 
what they can do. As Ive noted, theyve said they can ask for repayment, can ask a third 
party to collect on the debt, and can report it to the CRAs  all of which is correct.
Ive noted Mr Ns representatives have referred to two different legal judgments which they 
say mean the default shouldnt be reported to the CRAs.
The first of those concerns a ruling by the Supreme Court which Mr Ns representatives said 
showed reasonable care had to be taken before recording a default  which they didnt think 
PRA had done.
Ive read through the judgment carefully, including the specific paragraph theyve highlighted. 
But I think the circumstances are different. The judgment relates to the entity who recorded 
the default  but in Mr Ns case that was M, not PRA who Im considering the complaint 
against. Id explain that generally I agree the entity who records a default has to take 
reasonable care in doing so, but that entity in this case was M, not PRA. So, I dont think this 
shows PRA are doing anything wrong.
In the second judgment Mr Ns representatives have referred to relates to the account being 
irredeemingly unenforceable. In Mr Ns case though, I dont think I can say that. Again, this 
comes back to whether the account is or isnt enforceable which only a court can decide. Ive 
noted PRA have told Mr N the account isnt enforceable, but I cant make that judgment  so 
it follows I cant decide if the account is irredeemingly unenforceable either. I would add 
though, the basis on which Mr Ns representatives are arguing this is because M cant 
provide a copy of the credit agreement  and Ive seen many occasions where a lender said 
this, but then later on discovered a credit agreement. To reiterate, Im looking at the 
individual circumstances of this case, and need to look at whats fair and reasonable.
Overall, I think PRA bought a debt thatd already had a default recorded, and Ive not seen 
any reason to say theyve done anything wrong in continuing to report the default on Mr Ns 
credit file.
Double reporting to the CRAs  and PRAs responsibility on this
Mr N says the default is being double reported which hes doesnt think is fair.
Ive seen PRAs response, which says the default isnt being reported twice. But based on 
the screenshots provided by Mr N I do think it is  or was, as at the time of the screenshot.
Generally, when a debt purchaser / collector takes over the debt theyll also take over the 
responsibility for reporting on the debt to the CRAs. Usually, this means the lender would 
stop reporting the debt, because the debt purchaser / debt collector is.
Ive seen that PRA and M are both reporting the debt as defaulted for October and 
November 2018. As Ive said above, this complaint is only about PRA  and as theyre the 
owners of the debt theyre currently responsible for reporting it, so I cant legitimately say 
theyre doing anything wrong. The question then becomes whether theyre reporting it 
accurately and in a fair way, given the entry by M.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) are responsible for upholding information 
rights in the UK. They issue guidance on such matters, and their guidance for this issue 
says:
If it is clear from looking at the two entries that they relate to the same account, with the 
same default date and balances and the original debt is clearly showing as settled then it is 
likely that we would consider this to be fair in terms of the data protection law. However, if 
the entries are recorded on your credit file in a way that may look like they are two different debts, or that could make the debt remain on your credit file for longer than six years from 
the date of the original default it is unlikely that we would consider this to be fair.
I cant decide if something has breached data protection law, as thatd be for the ICO to 
consider. But I can see both PRA and M are reporting defaults in October and 
November 2018, saying the default happened in October 2018, and PRA say the debt is 
£4,801, with M reporting £4,800.
Considering the ICOs guidance then, I think PRA are reporting the debt in such a way that 
its clear its the same one as M are reporting. And theyve recorded the default in 
October 2018  so it wont be on there for longer than the six years Id usually expect. So, 
overall, I dont think PRA have acted unfairly despite Ms entry.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman