DRN-2684239
The complaint
Mr N complains about the amount Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. reimbursed him for a stolen bicycle he claimed for under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N had an annual travel insurance policy with Mapfre which started on 10 March 2020. 
Mr Ns bicycle was stolen on 19 June 2020 while he was abroad. He made a claim for the 
value of his bicycle and accessories.
Mr N says he bought the bicycle for £90, but he paid £180 for works done on it to improve 
the quality. But Mapfre only considered the original purchase price of £90 when it assessed 
the claim, and it made a deduction for the value based on the age of the bicycle. Mapfre did 
the same for the accessories, and it deducted an excess of £80 from the claim.
Mr N says Mapfre should take into account the £180 he spent to improve the quality of the 
bicycle, as this wouldve increased its value.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Mapfre had acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. She also said Mr N hadnt shown a breakdown of the 
£180  so, she didnt think it was unreasonable that Mapfre didnt cover this. Overall, our 
investigator didnt think Mapfre had done anything wrong.
Mr N didnt agree. He said the policy terms said Mapfre would pay the claim based on the 
value of the item at the time it was lost. So, he says Mapfre should take into account that his 
bicycle had increased in value after the work done to it. Mr N also said he wasnt required to 
keep receipts or itemised invoices.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The personal belongings and baggage section of Mr Ns policy covered £200 for single 
items, with an excess of £80. The terms said that:
After taking off an amount for age, wear and tear and loss of value, we will reimburse you 
for an item that you own that you have lost or that has been damaged or stolen.
Mr N says that as Mapfre can take into account the loss of value, it should also take into 
account the increase in value. He refers to the policy terms for property claims which say 
that:
We pay these claims based on the value of the items at the time you lose them, unless it 
says otherwise in your policy. (This means you will not get back all of the money you paid for 
the item).
The issue in dispute here is the value of Mr Ns bicycle at the time of the loss, due to the 
£180 he says he spent on improving its quality. But Im not satisfied, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, that Mr N has shown that the value of his bicycle had increased, or the amount it 
had increased by.
Despite what Mr N says about there being no requirement for him to keep receipts or 
itemised invoices, it is for him to demonstrate that he has a valid claim under the policy, and 
to provide reasonable evidence in support of the value of his claim. 
I dont think I can fairly say that Mapfre should consider the bicycles value to have increased 
by £180 when Mr N hasnt been able to demonstrate this  for example, by providing a 
detailed breakdown of that cost and how that increased the value of the bicycle. This is 
because without this, I dont think its fair or reasonable to assume that simply paying £180 
for work carried out on a bicycle (without any details) inevitably increased its value by that 
amount.
Mapfre has shown that based on when Mr N bought the bicycle, it made a deduction of 15% 
of the original value (£90). Overall, having taken all of the circumstances into account, Im 
satisfied that these deductions are fair and reasonable and Mapfre followed the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Mapfre also paid for the accessories Mr N claimed for, after making 
deductions based on their age.
Taking everything into account, I dont think theres anything else Mapfre needs to do, to put 
things right. I think what its done is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman