DRN-2605345
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the amount of contact which PRA Group (UK) Limited attempted to 
make with her regarding outstanding balances.
What happened
PRA acquired two of Ms Ms accounts from a credit provider in 2015. At that time Mrs M had 
monthly direct debits set up for both accounts to make repayments.
In April 2020, Mrs M was furloughed due to the global pandemic and she cancelled the
direct debits for both accounts so that she could ensure that her priority bills were paid.
Mrs M raised a complaint about the subsequent contact PRA made. She said it was
horrendous and amounted to harassment. She also complained that the contact PRA made
prior to her cancelling the direct debit felt like harassment too.
PRA looked at Ms Ms complaint, but they felt that the amount of contact that they had made 
or attempted to make with Mrs M wasnt unreasonable, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with PRAs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that PRA hadnt acted 
unreasonably here, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by acknowledging that PRA are entitled to attempt to contact an account 
holder to discuss payment arrangements if no payment arrangement is in place on an 
account or if a previously agreed payment plan has been broken. However, what this service 
would expect is that the amount and frequency of this contact isnt excessive, and that PRA 
would respond to any information they get from the customer and adjust their contact 
strategy accordingly if appropriate.
When PRA first acquired these accounts there were payment plans in place on both 
accounts and Mrs M was keeping to these plans. When Mrs M cancelled the direct debits 
and stopped making payments towards these plans, she did so without giving PRA any prior 
notice that she was intending to do this. 
I understand that Mrs M felt that she had to stop making the payments toward these plans in 
order to ensure that she could continue to afford to pay her priority bills, but given that PRA 
werent made aware by Mrs M that she was stopping the payments its understandable that 
they would attempt to contact Mrs M to find out why the payments had stopped and discuss 
repayment possibilities moving forwards.
Mrs M believes that the amount of phone calls that she received from PRA was excessive. 
However, from the information I have available to me I cant see any instances where PRA 
attempted to call Mrs M more than once per day, or where the calls were made during 
unsociable hours. This doesnt feel excessive to me, and I dont feel that it would be fair to 
censure PRA for attempting to contact Mrs M at this frequency. It also must be noted that 
PRA did stop making calls after Mrs M contacted them to arrange payment arrangements, 
and only started calling Mrs M again when those payment arrangements were subsequently 
broken.
Mrs M has also stated that she felt that PRA were also contacting her excessively during the 
times that payment arrangements were in place. PRA are entitled to contact Mrs M to review 
the payment plans periodically, and the information I have available confirms that PRA would 
try to contact Mrs M every few months and would call once a day for four or five consecutive 
days if no contact were achieved. Again, this doesnt feel excessive to me, and I havent 
seen any evidence that Mrs M asked PRA not to contact her in this manner, prior to her 
making her complaint. 
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that PRA were contacting Mrs M 
excessively here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
PRA to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs 
M was wanting, but I hope that she can understand, based on everything I have explained 
above, why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman