DRN-2425550
The complaint
Miss P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) downgraded the level of cover 
on her home emergency insurance policy without telling her what it was going to do, and 
paid a partial refund for this into her business instead of her private account.
What happened
In November 2019, Miss P took out a home emergency insurance policy with BGI. This 
covered repairs and servicing to her central heating system, plumbing, repairs and electrics. 
On 14 January 2020, Miss P called out BGI because her central heating wasnt working 
properly. Its engineer said there was sludge in the system and in accordance with BGIs 
terms and conditions she would have to pay for a power flush before it would work on the 
system.
It seems BGIs engineer called again on 21 January 2020, when this advice was repeated 
and according to BGIs records a quote for a power flush was given. Miss P acknowledges 
that she may have been told a power flush would be required.
It seems that BGI then took the decision to downgrade Miss Ps policy to a basic level as it 
didnt consider her heating system was suitable for its initial level of cover. It acknowledges it 
should have explained this to her. She says it didnt tell her what it was going to do, or 
explain the terms and cost of the basic policy, which she says wasnt suitable for her.
BGI then refunded a proportion of the premium Miss P had paid, but paid this into her 
business account instead of her personal account. She says this could have caused 
complications in her business tax affairs.
Miss P was left confused as to why BGI wouldnt fulfil its original insurance contract, and with 
a faulty heating system, two vulnerable elderly parents, and another vulnerable family 
member, in the property during a winter period.
Eventually she arranged for a heating engineer to come and look at the heating system. He 
managed to get the system working properly by bleeding air from the system and servicing 
the boiler. He didnt carry out a power flush, and it has apparently operated satisfactorily 
since then.
Miss P complained to BGI. It apologised that it hadnt explained properly that it could only 
offer the limited policy, and for making the refund to the wrong account. It refunded the 
balance of the premium Miss P had paid and offered a further £40 as compensation. Miss P 
didnt think this was sufficient and complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. Given the action the 
heating engineer had taken to successfully restore heating, she didnt think BGI had 
provided Miss P with correct information. So she didnt think it had acted fairly on cancelling 
the original policy, and hadnt provided Miss P with clear and fair information about the 
downgraded policy.
British Gas Insurance LimitedThe result was that Miss P and vulnerable family members were without heating for some 
four weeks during a winter period, and she suffered worry and stress. She thought that fair 
compensation for the errors BGI had made was for it to pay Miss P compensation of £250, 
rather than the £40 it had offered.
Miss P accepted the investigators recommendation. BGI responded to say, in summary, that 
it had identified that there was sludge in the heating system. It accepted that Miss Ps 
engineer had been able to get the system working. But notwithstanding it was still working,  
this was likely to be only a temporary fix. BGI wouldnt take on such a system until the 
sludge in the system was removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BGI has acknowledged that it didnt explain properly why it couldnt offer a full policy, and 
that Miss P would be put on a restricted policy. It has refunded the full premium she paid, 
and offered her £40 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
The investigator wasnt convinced that the information BGIs engineer gave Miss P about a 
power flush being needed was correct. She pointed out that Miss Ps engineer had bled the 
system and serviced the boiler, which seemed to have dealt with the problem.
BGI said this would only be a temporary solution. It said there was sludge in the system 
which would eventually cause further problems. However, the investigator pointed out that 7 
months later the system was apparently still working without problems.
There is a conflict in the evidence on what action needed to be taken on the system. On 
balance, like the investigator, Im not persuaded that what BGIs engineer said was correct. 
So I think Miss P and her family were left without heating longer than they should have been, 
until her engineer could attend to the system.
Bearing in mind all the inconvenience Miss P and her family experienced I think £250 is fair 
compensation inclusive of the £40 BGI has offered, over and above the refund of premium 
she has received.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think BGI should now pay Miss P compensation of £250, inclusive of the 
£40 it has offered her.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Miss P compensation of £250, inclusive of the £40 it has offered her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman