DRN-3663220
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) trading as Halifax blocked his credit card 
whilst he was abroad. He is unhappy with the time taken to speak to someone about this. Mr 
L would like BoS to contact consumers when fraud is suspected. And would like more 
compensation than the £25 BoS has paid.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Ls frustration that BoS blocked his credit card when, as I understand 
it, he was trying to make a small transaction after having just made a successful 
significant one. BoS has explained that the larger transaction was done as a chip and 
PIN one. It blocked the smaller contactless transaction as  a security measure These 
measures  are there to protect both consumers and the bank so I cant say BoSs 
actions were unreasonable.
Having seen BoSs customer contact notes I can see it put an alert on Mr Ls account 
when he ordered car hire online as it felt it this transaction might be suspicious. 
Undertandably Mr L thinks  BoS should have contacted him at that point. BoS has 
explained that on some occasions it does contact customers directly when this 
happens but not always. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ls desire  to ensure in future BoS 
changes its processes to contact all customers when there is suspicious account 
activity thats not in our remit for us to tell BoS to do this.
I appreciate the frustration caused by the time taken for Mr L to resolve the issue by 
phone and the costs incurred whilst he was abroad. BoS credited Mr Ls account with 
£25 for the inconvenience of the time taken which I think was reasonable. It has 
however agreed to pay an additional £50 to cover the cost of phone calls made. I 
think this is reasonable for the costs  Mr  L would have incurred.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint .
In full and final settlement Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr L and 
additional £50 to cover his phone costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman