DRN-2961475
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked her accounts for a month.
What happened
Mrs S has a current account and a savings account with Nationwide. In June 2020 Mrs S 
phoned Nationwide in order to send £60,000 to her sister in another country. During the call, 
Nationwide twice asked Mrs S for her sisters name, and Mrs S did not answer immediately, 
which made the call hander suspect that Mrs S was being defrauded. As a result, 
Nationwide blocked Mrs Ss account. Mrs S complains about the block, and also about the 
fact that Nationwide failed to tell her about the block, instead leaving her to discover this 
when she tried to make a card payment. She says Nationwide should have told her.
Over the following days, Mrs S phoned Nationwide several times to try to resolve the matter. 
She was promised a call back which did not happen. She was told it would take up to 15 
working days to investigate her case, but the matter was not fully resolved until nearly a 
month had passed. During this time her current account was unblocked except for online 
banking, but this still inconvenienced her. She was not able to send the money to her sister 
until the savings account was unblocked.
In August, Nationwide apologised for the poor customer service Mrs S had received on 
some of the calls, and paid her £100. But it insisted that it had been right to block the 
account while it had investigated the matter in order to rule out any risk of fraud. It said that 
this had been done within a reasonable timescale. Mrs S did not accept that offer, and so 
she referred this complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that Nationwide had been entitled to 
block the accounts and had had sufficient reason to do so. He recognised that it had taken 
longer than it should, and that there had been some poor customer service, including the 
unkept promise to call Mrs S back. But he also noted that the blocks had not stopped direct 
debits and standing orders being paid, and that the current account had been unblocked 
temporarily to allow Mrs S to make a payment to HMRC and some other bills. He also 
investigated Mrs Ss spending habits before and after the blocks, and he noted that she did 
not use the current account for her day to day living, and she had made no large purchases 
after the block was lifted. He concluded that £100 was fair compensation.
Mrs S asked for an ombudsman to review her case. She said that £100 was not enough, as 
her health had been affected by stress, and the matter had gone on for far too long.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Mrs S has explained the reasons why she did not provide her sisters name more quickly 
than she did during the original phone call (I do not need to repeat them here). I accept her 
explanation, which is a reasonable one, but I think it would still have seemed suspicious to 
the call handler at the time.
The call handler put Mrs S on hold while he consulted a colleague, and they jointly decided 
that there was a real risk that Mrs Ss account might have been targeted by a fraudster. 
Building societies have a duty to protect their members accounts, and so I think that the 
initial decision to block the account was reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mrs S was inconvenienced by not being told about the block at the time. But 
that is common practice, in order to avoid tipping off fraudsters that there is an investigation 
(whether by telling them directly, or by telling their intended victim, who might pass on that 
information without realising that they are talking to a fraudster). So while it was 
inconvenient, I do not think that it was an error by Nationwide.
I do agree that Nationwide took too long to conclude its investigation. It took longer than the 
15 working days it had told Mrs S it was likely to take. That certainly inconvenienced her. But 
I think that error is mitigated by three things.
Firstly, it was during a period when normal business was still somewhat disrupted by the 
effects of the covid-19 pandemic. That has had a deleterious effect on efficiency and 
timeliness, although that cannot be a complete defence to a complaint because Nationwide 
could still have taken this into account when it told Mrs S how long it would take.
Secondly, the current account was not completely blocked during the entire duration of the 
investigation. As I have said, standing orders and direct debits were still processed as 
normal, and Mrs S was still allowed to make some other important payments such as the 
one to HMRC, and her television licence.
Thirdly, this was not Mrs Ss only account, and she was still able to make most of her daily 
purchases using another account. While the blocks were still inconvenient, and the payment 
to her sister was delayed by almost a month, Mrs S was still able to meet her expenses.
I cannot award compensation to Mrs Ss sister, or to Mrs S for any distress or inconvenience 
experienced by her sister. I cannot punish Nationwide by fining it.
With all of that in mind, I think that £100 is fair compensation for what happened. For that 
reason, I do not uphold this complaint  not because Nationwide did nothing wrong, but 
because I think it did enough to apologise for what it did.
My final decision
My decision is that Nationwide Building Society has done enough to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021. But if we do not hear from her then we will 
presume that she rejects it. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman