DRN-1986651
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a holiday.
What happened
On 6 October 2019 Mr C and his family booked a holiday at a holiday park, which I will call 
P, at a cost of £1,199. Payment was made on 6 October. The holiday ran from 21 October to 
25 October 2019. P has supplied a booking confirmation document dated 22 October 
showing four adults and four children.
When they arrived, they were told the chalet was able to accommodate eight and Mr C 
invited some friends to join them. Mr C says the friends (two adults and two children) arrived 
on 23 October. 
The chalet was mouldy and Mr Cs friends decided not to stay. Mr C was having work done 
on his house and he and his family could not return. He stayed at the accommodation, but 
complained and P offered him £240 compensation which it later increased to £360.
Mr C made a section 75 claim to Tesco which it rejected. It said the holiday was for two 
families and it would only consider half of the cost. It said P has tested the chalet for mould 
spores and it was within their tolerance levels. 
P also said that it was unable to offer a replacement chalet, but it had offered to clean the 
mouldy one on 22 October, but the cleaner was unable to gain access.  Mr C disputes that 
and said P had a key and had made use of it. On 24 October P offered Mr C a two bedroom 
chalet, but he declined as it was the last full day of their stay and they didnt want to move 
their belongings. 
Tesco accepted the chalet had been mouldy, but it thought the refund of £360 was 
reasonable. Mr C brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He also accepted the chalet had been 
mouldy, but he considered that the appropriate level of compensation would be in the region 
of 20 to 25% of the cost. In reaching this conclusion he took onto account that Mr C and his 
family made use of the chalet and the other facilities.
Mr C didnt agree and said P had full access to the lodge and it could have cleaned it 
straightaway. The walls had been bleached on 24 October. He added that the offer of 
alternative accommodation wasnt made until late in the day on 24 October and they were 
due to leave the following day. He said he had offered P the opportunity of a 50% refund and 
he would accept the same now. He added that they had not felt happy preparing food in the 
chalet and had eaten out resulting in 50% of the food they had taken being thrown out. Their 
whole holiday had been affected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Firstly, I would explain that I think the issue of the use of the chalet by the friends is a red 
herring. Having looked at the documents and their dates in conjunction with Mr Cs 
explanation of events I am satisfied that Mr C booked the holiday for his family and when 
they arrived they were given the opportunity of adding some guests. I have concluded the 
chalet was rented with the intention of being used by Mr C and his family alone. As such I 
will consider only the impact on Mr C and his family. 
That said, I can see why the confusion arose given the unusual circumstances and the 
booking confirmation details. However, I am not clear as to why the friends werent warned 
in advance that the chalet was mouldy given they arrived two days later. 
I have looked at the photos supplied by Mr C and I agree with Tesco and our investigator 
that the chalet was mouldy. I consider that to be a breach of contract in that Mr C and his 
family were entitled to be given access to a clean and mould free chalet.
There is some dispute about access to the chalet for cleaning, but it appears this wasnt 
done until the penultimate day of the holiday. That is regrettable. I also think the offer of 
alternative accommodation on the last day didnt really mitigate the situation.
However, Mr C and his family did make use of the accommodation and I presume the other 
facilities provided in the park. So, while I appreciate the holiday was tainted by the mould it 
wasnt terminated early. I acknowledge Mr C has explained that he was having work done in 
his house, but nonetheless he and his family did continue with their holiday. 
In the circumstances I agree with our investigator that a refund of somewhere in the region 
of 25% is reasonable. This the sort of level I would award in other similar complaints. P paid 
Mr C 30% and that leads me to conclude that no further compensation is due. I appreciate 
Mr C will be disappointed with this decision, but I consider the sum paid by P to be fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman