DRN-4126064
The complaint
Mr G complains QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
buildings insurance policy for subsidence.
What happened
As the circumstances arent in dispute, Ill summarise the main points:
Mr G made a claim for subsidence damage to his garage.
QIC declined it for two reasons. It thought the damage pre-dated inception of the 
policy and it had been caused by alterations Mr G had made to his driveway.
Mr G referred a complaint about that to this Service. An Ombudsman made a final 
decision in July 2022. He wasnt persuaded QIC had acted fairly when relying on 
those reasons and upheld the complaint. Amongst other things, he told QIC to 
reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
QIC did so. It carried out a drainage survey and a ground investigation. It accepted 
the damage had been caused by subsidence. But it declined the claim because it 
said that was a result of poor workmanship, which is excluded by the policy.
Mr G thought this was unfair and referred a second complaint to this Service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that 
QIC had shown the damage had been caused by poor workmanship. She asked it to 
accept the claim and pay £150 compensation.
Mr G accepted this. QIC didnt. It said it had taken advice from a surveyor, S, who 
had reviewed the investigations and made a qualified assessment. And S had 
confirmed the garage foundation was unsuitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant reconsider anything already considered by the Ombudsman in the previous complaint. 
My consideration will be limited to the events that followed his final decision in July 2022. 
Thats mainly QICs decision to decline the claim for poor workmanship.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, subject to a number of terms and 
conditions. The relevant one here is that damage caused by poor workmanship, use of 
faulty materials or poor design isnt covered.
QIC accepts the damage was caused by subsidence but it thinks this was brought about due 
to the poor design and/or workmanship of the garage, particularly the foundation. The onus 
is on QIC to show why it would be fair to rely on this term to decline the claim.
For an insurer to rely on this kind of policy term, Id usually expect it to show:
when the structure was built
what the relevant regulations, standards or guidelines were at that time
how these werent met
and how that caused the damage claimed for.
Ive considered the evidence QIC has provided about these points.
I understand the property, including the garage, was built sometime between 1965 and 
1975. Mr G bought it in 2018 and reported the damage to QIC in 2020. So, at the time he 
made the claim, the garage had stood for around 45-55 years.
In the previous complaint, the Ombudsman found the damage had started after the policy 
began. In part this was based on the findings of an engineer that no movement was 
recorded when Mr G bought the property. So I think its fair to say the garage has likely been 
structurally sound for at least 45 years.
QIC says there was no requirement for the garage to meet Building Regulations at the time it 
was built. As our investigator has pointed out, that means the garage didnt need to comply 
with these Regulations. QIC hasnt raised any other standards or guidelines it thinks the 
garage should have been constructed in line with.
QIC took advice from S, a chartered surveyor. I know Mr G has concerns that S didnt 
inspect the damage first hand before providing their comments. Ill take that into account, but 
I dont think it would be fair to disregard S professional opinion as it had access to photos, 
investigation results, and reports.
S described the construction of the garage foundation as inadequate and un-engineered. 
Noting the subsoil had a fairly high shrinkage potential and there was a lot of vegetation 
nearby, outside the boundary of the property, S said the foundation was an incident waiting 
to happen. In part this was also because S thought there was likely to be little in the way of 
a foundation nearest the vegetation to resist shrinkage of the clay.
Its clear S thinks the garage foundation could have been better constructed. However, its 
not clear how S thinks it should have been constructed. No regulations, guidelines or 
standards from the relevant time have been put forward. So, whilst the construction may be 
imperfect, especially by the standards of today, Im not persuaded it was defective according 
to the standards of the time it was built.
Even if the construction were shown to be defective by the standards of the relevant time, I 
bear in mind the garage has stood problem free for at least 45 years, possibly longer. In my 
view, that means it has stood the test of time. If the foundation had been so poorly designed 
and/or built that it was defective and failure was inevitable, I would have expected it to failed 
long ago. Because it hasnt, Im not satisfied QIC has shown the exclusion applies.
I also take into account that Mr G bought the property in 2018 and at that time no potential 
movement problems were identified. In these circumstances, Im not satisfied it would be fair 
to apply the exclusion as I think Mr G took reasonable steps to ensure the garage was likely 
to be structurally sound.To put things right, QIC should now accept the claim. It should also pay £150 compensation 
for the delay caused by not accepting the claim earlier. This amount is in addition to anything 
awarded by the Ombudsman in the previous case.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Accept the claim
Pay £150 compensation*
*QIC must pay compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman