DRN-3631378
The complaint
Miss P and Mr H complain that esure Insurance Limited mishandled a motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to esure, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include
employees and others insofar as I hold esure responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Miss P says she hadnt made a claim on a car insurance policy since 2003, so she had 18
years no claims discount (NCD). But for the year ending October 2021, she was insured
with one of esures competitors who had a maximum NCD of 9 years. Its renewal letter said
Miss P had 9 or more years NCD.
On 10 October 2021, Miss P took out an esure policy for the year from 30 October 2021.
She was the policyholder and Mr H was a named driver. She told esure she had 18 years
NCD. By a welcome letter dated 10 October 2021, esure asked her for proof of her NCD.
Miss P and Mr H complained to esure that it had repeatedly given poor service and
conflicting information about NCD and additional premium.
By final responses dated mid-November and late November 2021, esure offered Miss P and
Mr H compensation of £50.00. Unhappy with that, Miss P and Mr H brought their complaint
to us in early February 2022.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that esure
had agreed to accept Miss Ps evidence as proof of 18 years NCD, which its policy wouldnt
normally permit. So he thought that Miss P had benefitted from the errors. He recommended
that esure should pay Miss P and Mr H a total of £150.00 (including any payments esure had
already made).
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss P 
and Mr H and to esure on 21 July 2022. I summarise my findings:
I didnt doubt that esure caused both Miss P and Mr H upset and inconvenience and 
loss of expectation. It led her to believe it would accept her NCD but then said that it 
needed proof. Mr H then became involved and esure has also caused him frustration 
in its contacts with him.
That had gone on since last autumn. I didnt consider that the final response offering 
£50.00 served as much of an apology. And esures handling of their complaint took 
months to reveal the background to it. I accept that this has added to Mr Hs sense of 
mistrust and frustration.
Weighing all this up, I was minded to find it fair and reasonable (by way of an 
apology) to direct esure to pay Miss P and Mr H (jointly and insofar as it hasnt 
already paid either of them) £250.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Subject to any further information from Miss P and Mr H or from esure, my provisional 
decision was that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct esure Insurance Limited 
to pay Miss P and Mr H (jointly and insofar as it hasnt already paid either of them) £250.00 
for distress and inconvenience.
Miss P and Mr H accepted the provisional decision.
esure accepted the provisional decision, but it said it had already paid £50.00. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. We look at a consumers complaint against an insurer or other regulated
financial firm. If we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or omission, we look at the impact
on the complainant. We assess compensation for that impact. We dont usually direct a firm
to change its business processes.
I accept that esures older internal article or internal policy document should have been
superseded in 2018. That is because, from 2018, esure increased its maximum NCD to 20
years. If a consumer were to claim more than the maximum number of years NCD, then that
didnt make any difference to the NCD or the premium.
That change forms the background to the conflicting information esure gave to Miss P and
Mr H.
From the recordings of the calls in autumn 2021, I find that many of esures staff said that it
would accept evidence of 9+ years as evidence of 18 years NCD. Mr Hs call in Spring 2022
shows that at least one of esures staff was still saying that.
I find it likely that esure has given similar information to other policyholders in Miss Ps 
position. But that does not change the impact on Miss P and Mr H.
I consider it fair to reach my decision without seeing the briefing note. I say that because the
background to the conflicting information was the failure by staff to take note of the change
and the briefing note in 2018; and that background does not change the impact on Miss P
and Mr H.
I characterise esures incorrect information as a persistent error. I dont share Mr Hs view
that esure has knowingly provided false information to him  or withheld relevant evidence
from us.
I have no reason to doubt that Miss P had 18 years NCD. But she didnt have written
evidence of all of those years. Her previous insurer had only given her evidence of more
than 9 years.
Miss P rightly expected that 18 years NCD would be better. And thats borne out by esures
request for an additional premium of about £40.00.By later agreeing to accept 18 years NCD without further proof, esure did provide a benefit
to Miss P  albeit of only about £40.00.
I dont doubt that esure caused both Miss P and Mr H upset and inconvenience and loss of
expectation. It led her to believe it would accept her NCD but then said that it needed proof.
Mr H then became involved and esure has also caused him frustration in its contacts with
him.
That has gone on since last autumn. I dont consider that the final response offering £50.00
served as much of an apology. And esures handling of their complaint took months to
reveal the background to it. I accept that this has added to Mr Hs sense of mistrust and
frustration. 
Putting things right
Weighing all this up, I find it fair and reasonable (by way of an apology) to direct
esure to pay Miss P and Mr H (jointly and insofar as it hasnt already paid either of them)
£250.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I 
direct esure Insurance Limited to pay Miss P and Mr H (jointly and insofar as it hasnt 
already paid either of them) £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman