DRN-2304590
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Woolwich wont give them a 
repayment mortgage which would have allowed them to repay their Mortgage Current 
Account (MCA) which was due to be paid at the end of their mortgage term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a repayment mortgage with The Woolwich in 2009 for £100,000. The 
term was 13 years. A feature of the mortgage was an MCA facility on which Mr and Mrs C 
could borrow on an interest only basis. The MCA would have to be redeemed at the same 
time as the mortgage in 2022.
 
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs C applied for a repayment mortgage as a replacement for the 
balances of £37,500 which were on a repayment basis and to switch the MCA balance of 
about £66,500 onto a repayment mortgage for a term of eight years.
Mr and Mrs C got an initial illustration showing initial monthly payments of £1,130.00 per 
month.  But then in January 2020, Barclays refused to go ahead with the mortgage as it said 
it was unaffordable. As a result, in order to pay off the mortgage liability, Mr and Mrs C had 
to sell one of their other properties which they say reduces their total income and wealth.
Our investigators view was that Barclays had fairly considered the application and assessed 
it as unaffordable. He didnt believe that a consideration of Mr and Mrs Cs best interests 
should have led it to disregard that assessment. So, he didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed saying in summary that they werent increasing 
their borrowing but restructuring the lending to be paid off over a slightly longer term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C had a repayment mortgage with an overdraft facility known as an MCA also 
secured by the mortgage. Although, the repayment element of the mortgage was on track to 
be repaid in 2022 the MCA would remain outstanding. Mr and Mrs C at that time had capital 
of about £1.5m in property and they were drawing an income of about £40,000 per year from 
their business. 
Mr and Mrs C made the application for the new mortgage in January 2020. They were both 
66 years old at the time and looking to borrow £104,650.00 over an eight-year term. The 
initial discounted contractual monthly payment that Mr and Mrs C would have to make was 
£1,172.98. Barclays assessed the application but eventually decided that the application was 
unaffordable. The application was re-presented to an underwriter but again refused. In the 
notes there is a reference to an outstanding credit card liability and Barclays wrote to Mr and 
Mrs C to say that if they could bring these credit card balances down over the next twelve 
months that they could resubmit this application at that stage. My view is that Barclays 
seems to have looked and relooked at the application. Outstanding credit card liabilities may 
be an indication that an applicants finances are under stress and are a relevant 
consideration in an affordability assessment. Looking at the application overall, Ive no 
evidence that the affordability assessment was not conducted fairly.
But there are a couple of other matters that are relevant to his application. Firstly, Mr and 
Mrs Cs mortgage was taken out before 2014. Under regulations which came into force after 
that date, lenders must apply stricter rules when coming to an affordability assessment than 
previously.  But lenders can set aside the outcome of an affordability assessment, as a result 
of transitional rules, if they consider that to do so is in the customers best interests. Best 
interests in this context is not an assessment of the effect on Mr and Mrs Ws future income 
and wealth. But it requires considering a customers overall circumstances and whether 
there are other options that would allow Mr and Mrs C to repay the debt whilst remaining in 
their home. The background to the application was the impending requirement by Mr and 
Mrs C to pay off the MCA. This they could do, and indeed accomplished, by selling an asset. 
So, Mr and Mrs C had other options that would allow them to remain in their home and so I 
dont consider that this was a situation where Barclays should have set aside the affordability 
assessment. 
 
I have also given consideration as to whether it was fair, given the impending repayment of 
the interest-only part of the mortgage, that the possibility of a repayment mortgage was 
denied Mr and Mrs C which may have forced them to sell their home.  But, happily for them, 
they had access to other assets other than the sale of the house and have been able to use 
those to pay off the mortgage. In any case, Barclays did suggest that they could look to other 
lenders, who might have different lending criteria, for a repayment mortgage. Or they could 
return to Barclays at a later stage when their credit profile might be different and more 
acceptable to its underwriters, giving them other options for the repayment of the MCA. So, 
for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman