DRN-3421559
The complaint
Mr C has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt remove a marker from his account when 
they should have.
What happened
When Mr C applied to have paperless bank account statements in 2021, he discovered 
Barclays had placed a marker against his account because of his previous financial 
difficulties. This had never been removed although Barclays admitted it should have done 
this.
Although Barclays apologised for the error and offered compensation, Mr C didnt think this 
was enough. He was looking for compensation of about £1,000 and brought his complaint to 
the ombudsman service.
Our investigator noted that Barclays didnt remove the marker because of a known error. 
Barclays decided to increase their offer of compensation to £100. Our investigator believed 
this was fair.
Mr C disagreed. He felt this marker had had an impact as hed never been able to get an 
overdraft on his account. His complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The facts of this complaint arent really in dispute. Theres no doubt Barclays retained a 
marker on Mr Cs account for much longer than they should have. Theyve confirmed the 
marker should have been removed in July 2010. Instead it wasnt removed until September 
2021.
However, the error alone isnt what I base my decision upon. Its the impact on Mr C. 
Although Mr C has told us he was refused an overdraft by Barclays, I cant see any other 
indication this marker had any detrimental impact on him. Its certainly not the case that this 
will have affected his credit record as the marker was internal to Barclays alone.
I appreciate Mr C has told us he was refused an overdraft, but I can see his account was a 
basic bank account. No overdrafts are permitted on these account types, so I dont believe 
theres any evidence the marker had any affect.
Putting things right
Barclays have offered £100 compensation to Mr C. I think this amount is fair and reasonable. 
It accounts for the error Barclays made by initially thinking Mr Cs application was about his 
credit card statements and not his current account. It also serves, I believe, as an apology 
for Barclays error in retaining the marker as long as they did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is to instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr C 
£100 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman