DRN-1920806
 
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service she has received from Studio Retail Limited (Studio) 
in respect of a ring she purchased.
What happened
On, or around, 6 October 2019 Miss S ordered a personalised ring from Studio as a 
birthday present for herself from her children. The cost of the ring was £39.99.
On, or around, 17 October 2019 Miss S rang Studio to say the ring had arrived but had 
not been personalised. Studio then agreed with Miss S that the ring could be returned and 
it would arrange a reorder. Studio also agreed to credit Miss S account with £10 
in compensation.
On, or around, 23 October 2019 Studio credited Miss S account with £39.99 in respect 
of the returned ring.
On, or around, 1 November 2019 Miss S rang Studio chasing her reorder. Studio 
explained that the reorder should be in stock on 4 November 2019.
On, or around, 5 November 2019 Miss S rang Studio chasing her reorder. Studio 
credited Miss S account with a further £10 in compensation.
On, or around, 7 and 15 November 2019 Miss S rang Studio chasing her reorder.
On, or around,16 November 2019 Studio was advised (by the supplier) that there 
were currently no stock of the ring ordered by Miss S.
On 20 November 2019 Studio tried to ring Miss S to explain that there was currently no 
stock of the ring she had ordered.
On 20 November 2019, and having been unsuccessful in contacting Miss S by 
telephone, Studio wrote to Miss S to explain there was currently no stock of the ring she had 
ordered.
And that within the next 28 days it would debit her account £20, reversing the 
compensation it had previously paid, and send her a cheque for £40 in compensation 
instead.
 
Miss S was unhappy with Studios offer and so referred a complaint to our service. In doing 
so, she said she had; taken a number of days off work, had to make a number of 
telephone calls and suffered stress.Miss S later advised our service that she had sourced an alternative ring at a cost 
of £105.40.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that in all 
the circumstances Studio should pay Miss S £65.40, this being the difference between 
the alternative ring cost of £105.40 and the original ring cost of £39.99 (rounded up to £40).
However, it wasnt clear whether the investigator had recommended that Studio pay        
Miss S £65.40 in addition to the £40 cheque it had sent, or £25.40, the sum of £25.40 being 
the difference between £65.40 and the £40 cheque it had sent.
Miss S accepted the investigators view but Studio didnt. Therefore, the complaint was 
passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in May 2020. In summary, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I can confirm 
that having paid Miss S £40, or offered to do so, Studio need do nothing further.
I dont underestimate Miss S frustration. But Im not persuaded that she has suffered 
a direct financial loss here that Studio should have to compensate her for.
First Ive seen insufficient evidence that Miss S needed to take time off of work to receive 
or return the ring in question, or that she incurred any cost in making the various 
telephone calls that she did.
Secondly I dont think its fair to compare the price Miss S paid for the alternative ring 
from an alternative supplier with the one she was hoping to secure (correctly engraved) 
from Studio. This is because, and I accept that Im not a jewellery expert, the rings dont 
appear to be comparable. But even if they were, the decision to secure an alternative ring at 
a cost of £105.40 was Miss S.
Now I understand why Miss S might have bought the ring that she ultimately did. But in 
my view she could have also elected to not buy an alternative at all, or elected to buy one 
(albeit after some time and effort possibly) more akin to the one she had hoped to secure 
from Studio, including one that was more akin in price.
However, although Im of the view that Miss S hasnt suffered a direct financial loss 
that Studio could fairly and reasonably be held liable for, I accept that she has suffered 
some distress and inconvenience. But taking everything into account, I think the £40 offered 
by Studio represents both a fair and reasonable sum in this respect.
Studio responded to my provisional decision to say it accepted it and had nothing further to 
add.
 
 
 
 
Miss S responded to my provisional decision to say:She isnt seeking, nor does she expect, anything by way of compensation for time 
taken off work.
She feels £40 compensation is insufficient because she should have been advised 
by Studio to keep the ring. She could then have got it engraved elsewhere rather 
than having it pass[ed] on to [another] customer.
Studio could and should have been aware of stock levels being low when it advised 
her to return the ring.
She had one missed call from Studio and not the various calls Studio claim.
The ring she was looking to secure from Studio was unique and couldnt be secured 
elsewhere. She secured the closest match possible. In any event had Studio fulfilled 
her order she wouldnt have needed to source an alternative.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
Having done so, I remain of the view that a fair outcome to this complaint is for Studio to pay 
Miss S £40, to the extent it hasnt done so already.
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont underestimate Miss S frustration. But Miss S 
hasnt provided anything materially new for my consideration in response to my provisional 
decision.
Miss S advised our service, just before I issued my provisional decision, that she wasnt 
seeking anything by way of compensation for time taken off of work. But I thought it 
appropriate to make reference to this because it formed a part of Miss S original complaint 
to our service.
I only made reference in my provisional decision to Studio making one telephone call to 
Miss S, not various. But whether Studio made one or more telephone calls to Miss S, and 
regardless of whether these telephone calls were successful or not, isnt material (in my 
view) to the outcome of this complaint. 
I accept that the ring Miss S was trying to secure from Studio might not have been available 
elsewhere. In other words, Studio was the sole supplier of that ring. But Im not persuaded 
that Miss S needed to spend £105.40 on an alternative. In my view Miss S could have, after 
some time and effort possibly, secured an alternative ring at, or very close, to £39.99.
I accept that Studio could have suggested Miss S keep the ring and have it engraved 
herself. But I had regard to this possibility when deciding, in my provisional decision, what 
fair compensation Studio should have to pay.
Finally, Miss S says that Studio could and should have been aware of stock levels being low 
when it advised her to return the ring. But even if I was to accept what Miss S says on this 
point Im not persuaded that Studio was under any obligation to share this information. But in 
any event, Im not persuaded that this in itself warrants me directing Studio to pay anything 
more in compensation than £40.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that Studio Retail Limited should pay Miss S, if it hasnt done so already, 
£40 in full and final settlement of this complaint, but it need do nothing more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman