DRN-4305022
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds Bank) 
decision to decline their claim for alternative accommodation under their home insurance 
policy. 
Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint has been brought by a representative  who Ill refer to as      
Mr M(1).   
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M made a claim to Lloyds Bank after an escape of water incident at their 
home. Mr M and Mrs M moved in with Mr M(1) who asked Lloyds Bank if they would 
consider any payments for them living at his property. Lloyds Bank declined so Mr M(1) 
complained on behalf of Mr M and Mrs M. Lloyds Bank responded and explained there had 
been no out of pocket expenses incurred by Mr M and Mrs M. They explained if Mr M and 
Mrs M werent able to stay with Mr M(1), then they wouldve reviewed the requirement for 
alternative accommodation. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and Mrs M. She thought it wasnt unreasonable 
for Lloyds Bank to decline the claim for alternative accommodation. Mr M and Mrs M 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M and Mrs M will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr M and Mrs Ms home insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms 
and conditions and provides cover for Mr M and Mrs M if they require alternative 
accommodation should their home be deemed uninhabitable during repairs. Mr M(1) says he 
decided to charge Mr M and Mrs M rent at £1,000 per month but was happy to accept less, 
in the region of £500 per month. He feels Lloyds Bank should cover this for Mr M and Mrs M 
as a hotel wouldve cost significantly more.  
I can see Lloyds Bank say, when considering cover under the policy, a policyholder would 
need to act as though they were uninsured. 
Claim notes provided by Lloyds Bank show they spoke with Mr M(1) shortly after the escape 
of water incident and he explained his parents, Mr M and Mrs M, would be living with him. 
The notes say, no alternative accommodation was therefore required. I can see Lloyds Bank 
spoke with Mr M(1) again a few months later after he said he would be charging rent. The 
notes say Mr M(1) said hed never previously rented out the room and wouldnt consider 
doing so if Mr M and Mrs M werent insured. Lloyds Bank then took the view this wasnt an 
out of pocket expense for Mr M and Mrs M so it wouldnt be covered. I do acknowledge Mr 
M(1)s point about there being alternative accommodation cover under the policy but I dont 
think its unreasonable for Lloyds Bank, in the circumstances and following their discussions 
with Mr M(1), to take the view that Mr M and Mrs M living with Mr M(1) doesnt represent an 
out of pocket expense.  
Lloyds Bank say they acknowledge Mr M(1)s point about incurring extra expenses for bills 
and food, but as he isnt the policyholder, they cant reimburse him for these expenses. They 
acknowledge Mr M(1)s point about his own heating and electricity costs increasing but they 
say Mr M and Mrs M wouldve had to pay for utilities if they were living in their own home. 
They say, as theyre not paying for these for their own home, these costs can be used while 
theyre staying with Mr M(1). They say, should Mr M and Mrs M feel theyre out of pocket 
paying over what they normally would, then Lloyds Bank would review this on receipt of any 
evidence. I acknowledge Mr M(1)s own expenses may have increased, but I cant say 
Lloyds Bank are acting unfairly in taking this approach. And I think its reasonable that 
theyre prepared to consider any expenses incurred by Mr M and Mrs M over and above 
their usual expenses, subject to receiving evidence.         
I note Mr M(1) says Mr M and Mrs M are elderly, and living in a new environment wouldve 
affected them mentally and physically. He says they feel comfortable in his home, so this 
has prevented any distress for them. I do acknowledge Mr M(1)s points but the alternative 
accommodation is available to Mr M and Mrs M and Lloyds Bank have confirmed this 
wouldve been reviewed had they not been able to stay with Mr M(1). But, the position is that 
theres been no financial loss to Mr M and Mrs M in staying with Mr M(1) and no evidence of 
this representing an out of pocket expense. I can see Lloyds Bank say theyll consider any 
out of pocket expenses but Mr M and Mrs M will need to evidence this. So, I dont think 
Lloyds Bank are acting unfairly in declining this part of the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman