DRN-4004005
The complaint
Ms K has complained about poor customer service from Nationwide Building Society in 
relation to an abortive mortgage application. Ms K complained to Nationwide but did not 
receive a response. To settle the complaint Ms K wants Nationwide to compensate her for 
the inconvenience, expense and upset caused to her.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, Nationwide has acknowledged it made a mistake, so 
there is no need for me to go into detail about what happened and why. Finally, our 
decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to 
Ms K being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite 
brief.
Ms K wanted to buy a property with a mortgage from Nationwide. A valuation was carried out 
so that Nationwide could assess if the property was suitable for mortgage purposes. It was 
not, and Nationwide knew this on 18 May 2022, but it wasnt until 14 July 2022 that Ms Ks 
mortgage broker was given this information. The application didnt proceed any further.
Ms K complained to Nationwide, but, despite chasing this, never received a final response 
letter, so Ms K complained to our service, where an investigator looked at what had 
happened. He noted that, between 18 May 2022 and 14 July 2022 work had been done on 
the application by both Nationwide and the broker which would have been unnecessary if 
Nationwide had told the broker it wouldnt lend on the property on 18 May 2022. He thought 
Nationwide should pay Ms K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Nationwide agreed to this but Ms K didnt think it was sufficient compensation. She explained 
that shed incurred legal fees of £354 which she wouldnt have accrued if shed known by 
18 May 2022 that the property wasnt suitable for a mortgage.
Because the case is unresolved, its been referred to me for a decision.
Provisional decision and responses
On 21 February 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings.
As I said above, because Nationwide has accepted its mistake, I dont need to 
analyse what happened in detail. It is sufficient to say that Nationwide is allowed to 
decide what it considers to be suitable security for a mortgage, and so was entitled to 
reject Ms Ks chosen property where it didnt meet lending criteria.
I think the compensation offered doesnt go far enough. The eight-week delay 
resulted in additional work carried out on Ms Ks behalf by her broker and solicitors, 
and gave Ms K false hope that her purchase would be going ahead. Im also satisfied 
Ms K incurred legal costs. However, it isnt clear how much of the legal work was 
done after 18 May 2022.
I think Nationwide should compensate Ms K for the additional expense to which she 
was put in respect of her legal fees. Before I issue a final decision, Ms K will need to 
contact her solicitors and ask them for an itemised bill showing what work was done 
after 18 May 2022. (solicitors generally keep time-recorded records for billing 
purposes, so this should not be an onerous task for them) and then send it to us.
I intend to direct Nationwide to reimburse Ms K for her evidenced and itemised legal 
expenses incurred after 18 May 2022, together with interest on that sum at 8% per 
annum simple from 18 May 2022 to the date when Ms K paid those expenses.
I also dont think £100 compensation is sufficient, and I intend to increase this to 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms K. I think this is proportionate 
to the trouble and upset caused to Ms K, including Nationwides failure to address Ms 
Ks concerns when she raised them with the Society.
Nationwide agreed with my conclusions, but Ms K did not. Ms K says that she doesnt think 
the £200 compensation warrants the distress she suffered and that, a year later, shes still 
not been able to move on. Ms K says she feels unsupported through the whole process she 
endured.
Ms K also sent us a copy of her solicitors invoice. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional 
decision. Although I acknowledge Ms S was upset by what happened, our awards of 
compensation arent intended to be punitive, and we dont award damages in the way that a 
court would. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that compensation of £200 is fair, reasonable 
and proportionate in order to put things right. 
With regard to the solicitors invoice, the document provided by Ms K is not  as I directed  
itemised to show what work was carried out after 18 May 2022 and the cost of that work. I 
dont think Nationwide should be responsible for legal costs and disbursements incurred 
before 18 May 2022, so I wont be ordering Nationwide to pay the full amount of the invoice 
Ms K has sent us. Ms K must ask her solicitors to break down the costs so that Nationwide 
can pay whatever costs were incurred after 18 May 2022, as I explained in the provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
In full and final settlement of this complaint, I direct Nationwide Building Society to do the 
following:on production by Ms K of an itemised invoice from her solicitors showing the work carried 
out after 18 May 2022 and the cost of that work, I direct Nationwide to reimburse Ms K 
those evidenced and itemised legal expenses incurred after 18 May 2022, together with 
interest on that sum at 8% per annum simple from 18 May 2022 to the date when Ms K 
paid those expenses.*
pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
* If Nationwide considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from any interest, 
it should tell Ms K how much it has taken off. Nationwide should also give Ms K a tax deduction certificate if 
requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to 
settle it as outlined above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman