DRN-2425891
The complaint
Mrs K complained that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and that it treated her unfairly when she had payment problems.
What happened
Mrs K was given a single loan by Likely Loans . Here are the loan details: 
LoanDate Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
1 19/10/15 £3,200 24 months £195.42
Mrs K mainly said that Likely Loans would have seen from her credit report that she had 
missed payments and defaults and that it didnt ask for proof of income or check her 
expenditure in detail. 
Mrs K said she had a gambling problem which Likely Loans would have seen had it 
reviewed her bank statements. And she wasnt happy with the way Likely Loans dealt with 
her account when she entered debt management. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ks complaint. 
She thought that Likely Loans did sufficient checks before agreeing to provide this loan and 
that there wasnt anything in the information it gathered which meant it shouldnt have lent to 
Mrs K.
So our adjudicator didnt think Likely Loans had been wrong to provide Mrs K with the loan 
and she also didnt think Likely Loans acted unfairly towards Mrs K in relation to her other 
complaint points.
Mrs K didnt agree with our adjudicators view. She sent us a credit report she obtained 
and bank statements showing information she felt Likely Loans hadnt properly taken 
into account. 
And she doesnt feel Likely Loans treated her fairly even after she had sent emails 
which made clear the extent of her distress and anxiety about her money problems. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mrs Ks complaint.
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Likely Loans  did what it needed 
to before agreeing to lend to Mrs K and thought carefully about the following key 
questions:
 Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs K 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Likely Loans  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?what checks did Likely Loans do 
Likely Loans gathered some information from Mrs K before it agreed the loan. It asked 
her for details of her income and details of her normal monthly spending as well as 
asking Mrs K what she was spending on other credit each month. It also carried out a 
credit check and used an online affordability tool before deciding to approve the loan.
Likely Loans told us that Mrs K had said on her application that she was employed with an 
annual income of £28,000 and monthly expenditure of £600. It told us she confirmed that 
she was living with her parents and that the purpose of the loan was to consolidate 
borrowing.
did Likely Loans do proportionate checks 
Mrs Ks monthly take home pay worked out at around £1,600 per month. After all 
expenses, including her declared expenses, repayments for existing credit and this loan 
repayment, it appeared that she still had around £196 left to spend. 
Likely Loans didnt verify what Mrs K had said about her income  but looking at the 
information I can see on the bank statements Mrs K has sent me, it looks like the income 
figure she had provided wouldve been confirmed if Likely Loans had checked this out. So 
I cant fairly say that this is a reason for me to uphold her complaint. 
Likely Loans worked out that the monthly contractual instalments that she had signed up to 
make on this loan should have been comfortably affordable for her.
And broadly speaking, I dont think that the information Likely Loans had collected about 
Mrs Ks financial situation was enough to prompt a reasonable lender to think it needed to do 
further or more in-depth checking.
I havent seen the credit report that Likely Loans acquired at the time. But it has sent me a 
credit report it obtained later which covers the period running up to the loan and afterwards. 
So this helps me see what a credit report obtained at the time Mrs K applied for this loan 
would likely have shown. 
Likely Loans said that Mrs K had no court judgements or defaults, active pay day loans or 
any other negative markers recorded against her at the time it approved this loan. 
Looking at the credit report it has sent, it doesnt appear likely that there was any particularly 
adverse information shown on Mrs Ks credit checks. Likely Loans could probably have seen 
that Mrs K had been using pay day lending  but loans appear to have been settled without 
any signs of payment problems. Mrs K had an active pay day loan she had only just taken 
out when she also applied for this loan  so I dont know if there wouldve been enough time 
for that to have shown up on the credit checks Likely Loans did at the time. But even if it had 
known about this borrowing, I wouldnt reasonably expect that to have been enough to 
prompt Likely Loans to be concerned. 
Given the type of lending, I think a lender would reasonably expect it might see some 
adverse information on its customers credit history. As far as it could see at the time, I think 
Likely Loans wouldve been reassured that her debt seemed to be well managed. 
Looked at overall, I think it would have been fair for Likely Loans to have considered that 
Mrs Ks credit report generally showed a positive payment history. 
did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?Taking things as a whole, I think it would have been reasonable for Likely Loans to consider 
that the monthly repayments on its loan were sustainably affordable for Mrs K  allowing for 
the amount it had seen she had to pay each month towards her existing creditors, and what 
shed declared as her income and general living expenses and given what it could see about 
the way she used credit.
I dont think there was anything in the information that Likely Loans appears to have 
gathered at the time which should have caused the lender any additional concerns about 
Mrs Ks financial position when she applied for the loan or that ought reasonably to have 
triggered further checks before agreeing to lend - or that shouldve led Likely Loans to the 
conclusion that her loan application should be declined. 
I've taken into account that Mrs K says the credit information that Likely Loans relied on 
didnt reveal the full extent of her debt at the time. And Mrs K has sent us a credit report she 
has obtained and bank statements from that time to support what shes told us about her 
actual financial situation. 
But its worth remembering that a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that 
not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a 
lenders credit check might not show all the information someone could see (or expect to 
see) on their own credit file.
Overall, I think the checks that Likely Loans carried out before lending to Mrs K were 
reasonable and proportionate. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for Likely Loans  
to have relied on the information that Mrs K provided and what it told us its checks revealed - 
and this was enough to enable Likely Loans to gain a reasonable understanding of her 
financial situation and see that Mrs K appeared to be managing her money without any 
significant payment problems. I dont think more in-depth checks  such as requesting bank 
statements  were required. So I cant fairly uphold Mrs Ks complaint on the basis of 
information shown on her bank statements that I wouldnt reasonably expect Likely Loans to 
have looked at and which Mrs K didnt tell Likely Loans about at the time. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mrs Ks irresponsible lending complaint. 
has Likely Loans acted unfairly in any other way?  
I've taken carefully into account that Mrs K was unhappy about the way Likely Loans treated 
her when she had payment problems.
Likely Loans said that when her account went into arrears and she entered a debt 
management plan it continued to offer support by arranging reduced repayments and 
ensuring that this account remained on hold, protected from default.
It told us that its records show that prior to the transfer of the remaining balance to a third-
party debt collection agent in January 2019, Mrs K had made repayments totalling 
£1,855.47.
And at that point Likely Loans took a decision to hold her liable only for the remainder of the 
original loan amount. So it only transferred an amount of £1,344.53 and waived all the 
remaining interest and charges which had been applicable to the loan. 
As a result this meant that Mrs K was held accountable only for repayment of the original 
£3,200.00 which she had borrowed.I cant see that Likely Loans acted unreasonably when it did this.
Thinking about everything I've seen and been told, I cant fairly conclude that Likely Loans  
was wrong to provide the loan to Mrs K. And I dont find that Likely Loans  has acted unfairly 
towards her in some other way. 
So I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs K feels strongly about this complaint and that she will be 
disappointed in my decision. And Im sorry that she struggled financially and found it 
difficult to repay this loan. But I dont think Likely Loans could reasonably have foreseen 
this when it provided the loan to her.
I can see that Mrs K entered into reduced payment arrangements to clear credit that she 
was struggling to manage quite soon after she took out this loan. But she also took out a 
significant amount of debt within a short period of time after being approved for this loan. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to say that it was this loan, rather than the credit 
she took after taking out this loan, that caused Mrs Ks subsequent financial difficulties.
I cant fairly uphold Mrs K s complaint against Likely Loans when it looks like it made a 
fair lending decision based on the information it had available at the time that I think it 
was reasonable for Likely Loans to rely on. And I dont think it acted towards Mrs K in 
any other way that was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman