DRN-3356949
The complaint
Mr B has complained about how Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) dealt with a claim under his 
home insurance policy.
Im aware that Mr B has a representative for this case but, for ease, I will normally only refer 
to Mr B.
What happened
Mr B made a claim for a flood when sewage entered his home. Zurich investigated the claim 
and took a few months to accept it. Mr B complained to Zurich about the delays before the 
claim was accepted and afterwards. When Zurich replied to the complaint, it agreed there 
had been some delays with the claim caused by Zurich that would have caused Mr B stress 
and inconvenience. It offered Mr B a total of £400 compensation, which was made up of 
£325 for the claim delays and £75 because Zurich replied late to the complaint itself.
Mr B then complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said it was 
reasonable for Zurich to assess whether it should accept the claim and that Zurich had 
updated Mr B when it accepted the claim. Mr B had also chosen to remain in the property. 
However, there were avoidable delays, including that although the property naturally dried 
over many months, Zurich could have started to dry and sanitise the property when the claim 
was accepted. In addition, there was a lack of progress on the claim for a couple of months 
after it was accepted, including Zurich having to be chased to provide instructions. He said 
Zurich should pay a total of £525 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
which included the £75 offered for the delay in sending the response to the complaint.
As Zurich didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr B complained about the delays in Zurich accepting his claim.  So, Ive looked at this. 
From what Ive seen, when Mr B first contacted Zurich, it promptly started to assess the 
claim. However, Zurich found that works were taking place at the property that it was 
unaware of. It therefore referred the claim to its underwriters to consider whether this non-
disclosure meant the claim should be declined, as it wouldnt have accepted the risk has it 
known about the renovations. The underwriter then asked for the claim to be put on hold and 
requested further information from Mr Bs broker. About six weeks after the initial referral, the 
underwriter agreed the claim could proceed.  During that time, although it was reasonable for 
the underwriter to make enquiries, there seem to have been a couple of times when the 
underwriter could have progressed matters more quickly, which I think meant the claim could 
have been accepted about two to three weeks earlier.
Mr B also complained that he wasnt told for many months that the claim has been accepted. 
Zurich has provided evidence to show when it told Mr Bs loss assessor and broker that the 
claim had been accepted. This was shortly after the underwriter said the claim could 
progress and a couple of months earlier than Mr B suggested he has been told. Im not clear 
from the evidence whether Mr B was told directly that the claim had been accepted, but 
given Zurich told his loss assessor and broker, and they were acting on his behalf, I think its 
reasonable to expect that he would have been told by at least one of them. If this didnt 
happen, I dont think that is down to Zurich.
When the claim was accepted, from what Ive seen, no assessment was then made by 
Zurich about whether it should take steps to dry the property. Ive only looked at this issue up 
to the date on which Zurich issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint. The final response 
said Zurich was pleased that approval had now been given to dry and sanitise the property. 
Zurich hasnt provided any explanation for why, after the claim was accepted, it didnt then 
assess the drying situation beyond saying the property dried naturally over the months after 
the claim was first made. Im unable to comment on this in much more detail because the 
timeframe Ive seen for the property being dry is after the date of the final response letter. Im 
also unable to say what Zurich would have decided had it assessed the drying situation 
shortly after it accepted the claim. However, I dont think Zurich has provided a satisfactory 
response for why it didnt look at this issue, I think it could have taken steps to progress the 
claim at this stage and, in my view, Zurichs lack of action would have caused Mr B concern 
and inconvenience.
Mr B has also said the delays in progressing the claim affected him because he continued to 
live in the property. Im aware that the sewage affected the lower part of the property and 
that Mr B lived on the first floor in a part he was converting into a flat. This seemed to have 
its own kitchen and washing facilities. From what Ive seen, Zurich and Mr B discussed the 
option of him moving to accommodation elsewhere. However, Mr B told Zurich he was 
willing to live in the property if Zurich paid him £200 per week, which Zurich then agreed to. 
So, I think Mr B made the choice to stay in the property and when he did so, he knew about 
the sewage. The £200 weekly payment, which seems to be a disturbance allowance, was 
also higher than I would normally expect an insurer to pay. So, I think that was fair.
However, I can understand that Mr B didnt expect the claim to take as long as it did to 
progress and so he was unlikely to have expected to live in those conditions for the amount 
of time he did. Ive also noted that Mr B had existing health problems and new health issues 
during the time-period Im considering. 
Im also aware that Mr B and his loss assessor contacted Zurich on a number of occasions 
for updates on the claim. Sometimes Zurich seemed not to reply, despite chasing, and after 
the claim was accepted, contractors said they awaited further instructions from Zurich, so 
couldnt take action on some aspects of the claim.
So, Ive thought about an appropriate level of compensation. Im aware that both parties 
have strong views about what happened and the level of compensation. I think the claim 
initially progressed reasonably, that it was reasonable for the underwriters to assess the 
claim, including making enquiries, and that Zurich then promptly explained the claim had 
been accepted. However, I think there were delays in the underwriting review process and 
after the claim was then accepted, no assessment seemed to take place about the situation 
with drying the property or sanitisation. I havent seen a satisfactory explanation for why this 
didnt happen. I think there were also times when Mr B or his loss assessor had to chase for 
responses to emails and updates, including on the status of the claim, and that Zurich also 
hadnt always provided instructions to contractors, even though it had a reasonable amount 
of time in which to do so. I think the combination of the delays and issues will have caused Mr B concern and distress, 
including that Zurich hasnt been able to explain why it didnt take steps to assess the drying 
situation promptly once the claim had been accepted. Im aware that it was Mr Bs choice to 
live in part of the property but that doesnt mean I should ignore his circumstances and the 
impact those delays had on him. So, thinking about everything that happened, and looking at 
the levels of compensation we would generally consider reasonable, I think Zurich should 
pay a total of £525 compensation made up of £450 for the delays and distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr B and the £75 Zurich offered for the delay in responding to the 
complaint.
Putting things right
Zurich should pay Mr B £450 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the delays 
and related issues and the £75 it offered for the delay in replying to the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Mr B a total of £525 compensation made up of £450 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him and the £75 it offered for the delay in replying to 
the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman