DRN-2944964
The complaint
The estate of Mr T complains that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited recorded 
incorrect information about Mr T when it arranged his life assurance policy. 
Whilst the estate of Mr T brings this complaint, Ill refer only to Mrs T as she is the one who 
made a claim on Mr Ts life assurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T ran a pub for a number of years. And in 2012, Quilter arranged life cover for 
Mr T. One of Quilters advisers had previously spoken to Mr T about arranging life cover with 
an insurance company Ill refer to as A in July 2011, but the application didnt proceed. 
In October 2012, Quilter set up a policy for Mr T with another insurer (which Ill refer to as 
B) with a sum assured of around £91,000 and a nine-year term.
Sadly, Mr T passed away in 2020. Mrs T contacted B to make a claim on his life assurance 
policy. As part of its consideration of the  claim, B reviewed Mr Ts death certificate, which 
recorded one of the causes of death as Chronic Alcohol Excess. Following on from this, B 
contacted Mr Ts GP for a copy of his medical records. B said the records showed the GP 
had advised Mr T to reduce his alcohol consumption at least twice, most recently three 
years before he applied for his policy. B compared this to the answers recorded on Mr Ts 
policy application: 
How many units of alcohol do you drink on average each week? (One pint of beer = 
2.5 units, one 330ml bottle of beer = 1.5 units, one 175ml glass of wine = 2 units, one 
measure of spirits = 1 unit). If you dont drink alcohol please enter 0.
Have you ever been advised to drink less / no alcohol?
The recorded answer to the first question was 5 (so Mr T drank 5 units of alcohol a week, 
on average) and the recorded answer to the second question was no.
B thought Mr T should have said hed been advised to drink less alcohol in response to its 
question quoted above. And if he had, B would have requested further information from 
Mr Ts GP, which would have shown more information about his medical history and that he 
was drinking significantly more alcohol than 5 units per week. If B had known how much 
Mr T drank, it wouldnt have offered him his policy. Because of this, B declined Mrs Ts claim.
Mrs T complained to Quilter, saying her husband wouldnt have said he drank only 5 units of 
alcohol a week. She said Quilters adviser was totally aware of our lifestyle as he met them 
in the pub where they worked and saw Mr T drink alcohol. Mrs T said they never saw the 
application forms for the policies Mr T applied for. Because of this, Mrs T thought Quilter 
should pay her the policys sum assured.
In response, Quilter said:
A wrote to Mr T in July 2011, asking him to check the details provided on his 
application. In particular, it asked Mr T to check his answer about alcohol 
consumption. Mr T told A he drank 5 units of alcohol a week on the application, and 
he signed a copy of his application form on 14 December 2011.  
Mr T spoke to one of its staff members on the phone to arrange his policy with B. 
they ran through the previous application for A and asked if there had been any 
changes in Mr Ts health. So this application also recorded Mr T drank 5 units of 
alcohol a week. Quilter wrote to Mr T in November 2012, asking him to confirm he 
had checked the application form carefully. And on 3 December 2012, Mr T signed to 
confirm the application was correct.  
Quilter would not have expected Mr T to sign to confirm the applications were correct 
if it had recorded details of his alcohol consumption incorrectly.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs T referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators reviewed it but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought it was unlikely 
Quilter made an error in recording Mr T had 5 units of alcohol a week and said Mr T had the 
opportunity to check the answers given on the application but signed to say they were 
correct. Mrs T disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying:
 She was under the impression the details were copied from Mr Ts application to 
insurer A onto his application to insurer B, and was called only to see if anything had 
changed. There was no in-depth discussion about the application to B.
 Mr T wasnt very literate and the application forms werent discussed with him.
 Her husband wouldnt have declared he drank only 2 pints of beer or 5 units of 
alcohol a week and would have said he drank 5 pints a day (the amount he declared 
to his GP). Quilters adviser recorded how much Mr T drank incorrectly.
 Quilters adviser always conducted his business in their pub and Mr T would have a 
pint whilst they discussed things. The adviser would have known Mr T drank daily 
and should have questioned him if Mr T said he drank only 5 units a week.
Our investigator remained of the view there was insufficient evidence to show Quilter made a 
mistake and recorded Mr Ts answer about his weekly alcohol consumption incorrectly. 
Mrs T remained unhappy, saying she would like to see how Quilters adviser converted pints 
into units of alcohol, as Mr T only drank pints of beer and wouldnt have known how to 
convert what he drank into units of alcohol. So this has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not upheld this complaint. I realise my decision will disappoint Mrs T 
and Im sorry to do so after shes already lost her husband.
To be clear, Im not considering any complaint about B and its decision to decline Mrs Ts 
claim  our service has considered a complaint against B under a separate reference. B 
says Mr T answered questions about his alcohol use incorrectly when he applied for his 
policy, and it doesnt seem to be in dispute that the answers recorded on the application 
were incorrect. Im only considering Quilters actions  and the relevant question here is 
whether Quilter is responsible for the incorrect answers given on Mr Ts application.I accept there may have been only a brief conversation with Mr T about his 2012 application 
 Quilter and Mrs T seem to agree Mr T was asked whether anything had changed since his 
application to A. This led to Quilter recording Mr T drank only 5 units of alcohol a week and 
hadnt been advised to reduce his alcohol consumption. 
The confirmation record Mr T signed asked Mr T to check his application to B carefully. The 
application, quoted above, explained one pint of beer is 2.5 units. I note Mrs Ts concerns 
about how Quilter recorded Mr Ts consumption of alcohol and whether it explained to him 
how many units of alcohol were in a pint of beer. But I think the application Mr T was asked 
to check explained sufficiently clearly that one pint of beer is the equivalent of 2.5 units. 
Underneath this explanation, its recorded Mr T drank 5 units  so 2 pints of beer a week. 
Mr T didnt let B know the application was incorrect when it said he drank only 5 units of 
alcohol a week or that he had been advised to reduce his alcohol consumption. I also note 
Mr T signed his policy application to A in 2011, which also recorded he drank only 5 units of 
alcohol a week and had never been advised to reduce his drinking. Even if Quilter had made 
a mistake in recording Mr Ts responses to these questions, I think Mr T was given the 
opportunity to correct the mistake and didnt do so. And whilst I note Mrs T says her husband 
wasnt very literate, theres no evidence to suggest he had a concern about what he was 
being asked to sign or asked Quilter for help in understanding the forms he signed. So I 
dont think Quilter is responsible for the incorrect answers given on Mr Ts policy application.
I note Mrs T says Quilters adviser should have questioned his responses, given Mr T was a 
publican who drank in the advisers presence. But it doesnt automatically follow this means 
Mr T drank more than 5 units of alcohol a week, on average, or that the adviser should have 
known the answer Mr T gave was incorrect. And in any event, Mr T was given the 
opportunity to check the answers given on his policy application and he didnt correct these.
I know B said it wouldnt have offered Mr T his policy on the terms it did if hed answered its 
questions correctly, and declined Mrs Ts claim. I cant imagine how upsetting this situation 
has been for Mrs T. But I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show Quilter made a 
mistake or should have known the answers given on Mr Ts policy application were incorrect. 
And as I explained above, I think its likely Mr T was given the opportunity to check the 
answers Quilter recorded and correct any mistakes. Because of this, I dont think Quilter is 
obliged to pay Mrs Ts claim or any other compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman