DRN-4153269
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) declined his claims made on two mobile 
phone insurance policies for the loss of two mobile phones, and that WDP cancelled the 
policies. 
Mr Ts policies are branded policies with Company T, insured by WDP and the policy 
administrators are Company A. For ease, I have referred to WDP throughout as WDP are 
the insurers of the policies in question and responsible for the claims Mr T is complaining 
about. 
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties setting out why I thought Mr Ts complaint 
should be upheld in so far as that, in the circumstances of the case, WDP should reassess 
Mr Ts claims again in line with my findings and the remaining policy terms and conditions. I 
invited both parties to provide any further submissions in reply to my provisional decision, 
and the responses are noted later on. 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision together with my 
provisional findings, both of which are included below and now form part of this final 
decision. 
Background
Mr T took out two mobile phone insurance policies with WDP, covering what Ill refer to as
Mobile 1 and Mobile 2. Mobile 1s cover started on 31 October 2021, and Mobile 2s cover
started on 20 December 2021.
On 26 March 2022 Mr T says he took his two mobile phones to work, and when riding home
on his bike he discovered hed lost them. Mr T says he tried to go back to work and find
them but was unable to locate them, so he submitted claims to WDP for both phones on the
same day.
WDP considered Mr Ts claims, but after speaking with Mr T about what happened they said
he had not been clear about the usage of his phones.
WDP said Mr T had told them he had not used the SIM for Mobile 1 in any other phone until
after hed lost the phone and received his replacement SIM.
In a follow up call WDP told Mr T this could not be correct as they had information the SIM
for Mobile 1 had been used in a different mobile phone (Mobile 3) the day before the claims
were made. And they said although Mr T had also said he had not used the SIM for Mobile 2
in any other phone before he lost Mobile 2, they had information to show the SIM for Mobile
2 had been used in a different mobile phone (Mobile 4), also on the day before the claims
were made.
WDPs notes record that in light of the information they had gathered, Mr T was asked to
explain what had happened. Their notes record that Mr T could not provide an explanation,
and that hed said he had received his new SIM on 29 March 2022, and Mobile 4 was his
childs mobile, which he had taken as he didnt have a phone. The notes also say Mr T
maintained that he had not used the SIM for Mobile 1 in Mobile 3 before he lost Mobile 1.
Mr T said hed only used Mobile 1s SIM in Mobile 3 in December 2021.
Because of these discrepancies WDP declined Mr Ts claims and on the same day, 13 April
2022, they cancelled his policies stating for each policy, Were writing to let you know that
weve cancelled your [policy] because of potentially fraudulent activity that has been
identified on policies linked to the above policy.
Mr T brought his complaint to this service as he was unhappy the claims had been declined.
He said there was nothing in the terms and conditions to say that the SIMs could not be
used with other phones, and he was not trying to defraud WDP as he has other important
financial commitments. Mr T also said that WDP had questioned him 19 days (it is in fact 17
days) after the claims had been made, so he couldnt recall using the SIMs in other phones
when asked. Mr T said he called WDP back the next day to explain all of this  which is
when he also raised his complaint with WDP on 14 April 2022.
Our Investigator concluded WDP had fairly declined Mr Ts claims and cancelled the
policies, but that WDP should pay Mr T £50 to recognise some delays caused during the
handling of the claims.
Mr T didnt accept the Investigators opinion as he said it was unfair of WDP to have
questioned him so long after the incident when he had taken dozens of calls since then.
WDP also didnt accept the Investigators opinion as they did not think it fair, in the
circumstances, to award Mr T any compensation at all.
As a resolution could not be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. Before
reaching my provisional findings below, a copy of Mr Ts mobile phone statement for the
period in question was requested and WDP were asked to provide copies of any call
recordings they had in relation to their handling of these claims.
Unfortunately, WDP were unable to obtain any call recordings, so I have used only the notes
of their calls with Mr T as part of my considerations.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am minded to reach a
different outcome to that of our Investigator as I think Mr Ts claims should be reassessed by
WDP. Ill explain why.
WDP are required to consider claims fairly and promptly, and so Ive taken this into account
as part of my considerations. 
WDP have declined Mr Ts claims because theyve said Mr T gave them incorrect
information about how he was using his phones prior to 26 March 2022.
I dont think Mr T is disputing that he gave information that wasnt right about how he was
using the phones before he lost them. Rather he has said he couldnt recall any details when
he was asked due to several days having passed before WDP queried him about his phone
usage, and he has said there was no intention to give WDP wrong information. Mr T hassaid he had two phones to make sure that he would always have one available to him if the
batteries on one of the phones died, and he had two phones because he had a second job
as a driver  these were things Mr T had told WDP when they first contacted him about what
had happened.
More recently, as part of our Investigators review, Mr T provided more detail around his
phone usage. In summary, Mr T said that Mobile 3 and Mobile 4 were used by his children
and he had on occasion, for short periods, used SIMs in their phones to look online and
create accounts to play games. Mr T also tried to obtain more detail from a previous mobile
phone provider to support what he was saying about his usage, but given Mr T had not used
their services for over two years, he was unable to obtain any more information.
As Mr T has said, there does not appear to be anything in the terms and conditions about
which SIM cards must be used with which mobile phone. And while I note there is some
ambiguity about Mr T initially being unable to remember which SIMs he had been using in
which phones prior to the date of the claims, as part of my role I have to consider whether in
the circumstances this reason was enough for WDP to fairly decline Mr Ts claims on the
grounds that it did.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policies it says WDP will not cover, Any claim that
we find to be fraudulent And I note that when WDP wrote to Mr T to confirm that the
policies were being cancelled they said it was due to potentially fraudulent activity.
On balance, and based on the submissions Ive seen from both parties at this point, I am
minded to say the reasons WDP have presented for declining the claims  that is, that Mr T
did not fully explain the usage of his devices when asked  are not enough to fairly say
Mr Ts claims that he lost his phones when travelling back from work should be declined.
However, Mr T should note this does not automatically mean that his claims should be paid
at this stage. I am instead minded to say WDP should reinvestigate and reassess Mr Ts
claims in full in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Ive also considered the Investigators proposal that WDP should pay Mr T £50 for delays in
the claims handling. However, having reviewed whats happened, I am unable to agree in
this case that £50 should be paid.
The claims were made on 26 March 2022, and once WDP had received the information
theyd requested as part of their investigation on 12 April 2022 and spoken with Mr T on the
same day, the outcome of the claims were delivered to Mr T on 13 April 2022. I can see that
Mr T was regularly chasing WDP for the outcome of his claims, and sometimes before the
times WDP had said they would next be in touch with Mr T. While I can see how this may
have felt like a long time for Mr T, overall, I dont think this was an unreasonable amount of
time in the circumstances and given the apparent discrepancies.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr T did not reply to my provisional decision, so he did not provide any further submissions 
or evidence for me to consider. 
WDP strongly disagreed with my provisional findings mainly for the reasons Ive summarised 
below. WDP say, among other things:
They never suggested that the contract SIM needed to be consistently used in the 
insured device. There was no ambiguity about Mr T being unable to remember which SIMs he had 
been using in which phones. Mr T provided incorrect and inaccurate information, in 
response to information presented to him in a very clear and fair manner, and he was 
unable to explain the discrepancies.
It was not correct to say the reason Mr Ts claims were declined was due to Mr T 
being unable to fully explain the usage of his device, rather it was because Mr T had 
provided clearly incorrect information in support of his claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything afresh, and while I note the strength of feeling WDP have shown 
in response to my provisional findings, Ive decided not to alter my conclusions from those 
set out in my provisional decision and Ill explain why, as well as offer some clarity in light of 
WDPs recent submissions. 
I set out in my provisional findings that the consideration in this matter is to decide whether, 
in the circumstances of this case, WDP fairly declined Mr Ts claims.  
Having considered WDPs most recent submissions it may help at this point if I clarify that 
my provisional decision noted WDP had declined Mr Ts claims because they said he had 
given them incorrect information about how he was using his phones prior to 26 March 2022. 
So to reassure WDP, my provisional findings were not simply that WDP declined Mr Ts 
claims because hed used the SIMs in different devices prior to the incident date. I recognise 
that both Mr T and WDP are aware there was nothing to stop Mr T using the SIMs in 
different devices. 
The final response letter dated 21 April 2022 - which WDP issued to Mr T after he 
complained about the declined claim  explained to Mr T the claims had been declined 
because there was a discrepancy between the information Mr T had given WDP about how 
he had been using his phones prior to the incident date and Company Ts usage reports for 
the devices and SIMs in question. WDP said the claims had been declined correctly as [due 
to the discrepancy] they didnt believe the incident Mr T had described had taken place. 
The final response letter did not make clear the actual terms WDP had relied upon to decline 
the claims, and the cancellation of cover messages sent to Mr T referred to potentially 
fraudulent activity  which is not the wording in the policy term noted above. 
From what I have seen in Mr Ts submissions, it appears he has understood the claims to be 
declined due to fraudulent behaviour because of how hes used the phones - which he does 
not accept. 
WDP have said they asked Mr T clear questions and there was no ambiguity in Mr Ts 
answers. WDP have said Mr Ts answers were incorrect when compared to the more reliable 
usage reports from Company T about how he was using the phones. 
WDP felt strongly about my provisional decision referring to ambiguity in Mr Ts 
submissions. In light of this Id like to clarify to WDP that this reference was to recognise that 
Mr T had not been able to recall details of his phone usage when asked. 
I acknowledge that, based on the available evidence and submissions, there are 
discrepancies between what Mr T told WDP and what the usage reports showed. I have not disputed this at any point, and in the circumstances I think it was fair for WDP to make 
further enquiries  it is disappointing that WDP should suggest my provisional findings 
indicate otherwise.  
Mr Ts complaint is with this service to decide if WDP fairly declined his claims. And while I 
accept there are discrepancies between what Mr T told WDP (at the time the claims were 
being considered) and the usage reports, on balance, I am unable to say the reason WDP 
have relied upon to decline the claims is fair in the circumstances.  
Mr T says he has not tried to defraud WDP and hasnt disputed information may not have 
been quite right as he tried to recall things several days after the event when WDP called 
him. And he could not offer much more detail shortly after. 
The call recordings are unfortunately unavailable, and when compared to a call recording, 
call notes can be limiting. Given the way the notes are written, there is also some suggestion 
that Mr Ts first language may not be English. I also note that Mr T did disclose using a 
previous mobile in December 2021 and had not  during WDPs enquiries  denied the 
existence of the other mobiles.
I would also add that several of WDPs points in reply to my provisional decision related to 
general comments around these types of claims. While Ive noted these, I am only able to 
review the circumstances of the individual complaint that has been brought to this service 
and, in this case, the reason WDP presented to Mr T for declining his claims. 
So, while I accept Mr T did not provide WDP with answers to exactly match the usage 
reports and there was therefore enough in the circumstances for WDP to warrant making 
further enquiries, from what Ive seen, WDPs reason given to Mr T for declining the claims is 
on balance not enough to support that Mr T more likely than not made fraudulent claims. 
I stress to Mr T that my findings do not mean his claims will now be paid  it is possible 
WDP, on further review, will still decline the claims. I am only directing WDP to reinstate the 
policies, reinvestigate and reassess Mr Ts claims in full, in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions. 
Neither party made any submissions regarding the proposed award of £50 being removed, 
so I see no reason to change this part of my provisional findings.
Putting things right
WDP Insurance Limited should reinstate the policies and reassess Mr Ts claims again in 
line with my findings and the remaining policy terms and conditions, and do so promptly to 
let Mr T know the outcome of their decisions.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that WDP Insurance Limited should settle this 
matter as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman