The complaint
The estate of Mrs D ('the estate') is represented by its executor ('the executor'). The 
executor says Computershare Investor Services Plc ('Computershare') is responsible for 
mishandling an instruction to sell a particular stockholding, for the delay that resulted from 
that and for the financial loss that resulted from the delay.
What happened
The holding featured shares for which Computershare was the registrar. In November 2018 
the executor sent Computershare a copy of the Grant of Probate (for the estate) which had 
been issued to him. The holding's account was then changed to the estate's name - with the 
account's records updated to note the executor - and to the executor's  address.
The executor applied to use Computershare's 'Deceased Estates Sales Service' ('DESS') to 
sell the holding. As Computershare confirmed to him, the service was provided and operated 
by 'The Share Centre' ('TSC'). He contacted TCS and was told his identity had to be verified 
afresh.
The estate's first complaint point is that this was unnecessary and unreasonable, given that 
Computershare and TCS presented themselves, jointly, as parts of the same entity (with 
joint letter-headed correspondence and email addresses that shared the 
same computershare based domain name); given that, in this context, the account updating 
process the executor had previously completed with Computershare ought to have made 
TCS' identity verification redundant and inapplicable; given that the bank account to be used 
for the sale belonged to the estate and had also been updated with Computershare; and 
given that there is evidence which confirms TCS had access to the registrar records, so that 
could have been used to process and progress the DESS application.
The executor followed TCS' instructions and submitted documentation (including the 
application form signed and dated 1 March 2019), by international mail (as he resides 
abroad), for the purpose of identity verification. TCS received the documents and returned 
them (along with the application) to him on 6 March 2019 because they lacked the requisite 
original or certified copy of his  bank statement - the copy submitted was neither. The 
executor highlights that TCS scanned and retained the documents (electronically) before 
returning them. 
The executor addressed this issue by emailing, on 11 March 2019, a digital pdf version of his 
personal bank account statement - not the estate's bank account/statement - which 
TCS accepted as sufficient and acknowledged as such in its email of 12 March 2019. The 
estate cites this - and its assertion that Computershare/TCS stubbornly refused to separate 
the individual from the estate executor in the matter - as another cause for complaint.
DRN-1808375The executor also makes the point that Computershare/TCS ought reasonably to have 
approached the sale application differently; whereby instead of returning the documentation 
to him, he should have been contacted and asked to address the bank statement issue; that 
could have been done instantly by email (as he did on 11 March) and the DESS process 
(and sale itself) could have concluded promptly.  
The executor resubmitted the documentation by international mail, however the package 
was misdirected by the postal service and did not reach TCS until around three months later 
in June 2019. The holding was eventually sold on 6 June 2019. The estate says the holding 
lost around £5,000 in value between when it could and should have been sold in March and 
when it was sold on 6 June.
The estate complained, based on the aforementioned points, to Computershare. It did not 
uphold the complaint and said TCS operated as a separate entity which needed to apply due 
anti money laundering process to the matter, hence the identity verification it insisted upon. It 
has also stressed to this service that its decision to accept the pdf bank statement was not 
the norm but was a decision granted to the executor as an exception.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and was initially persuaded by 
Computershare's position. He too did not consider that TCS' application of due anti money 
laundering process was unreasonable or that it was rendered unnecessary by 
Computershare previously updating the holding's account with information about the estate 
and the executor.
However, upon reconsideration, the investigator accepted the executor's argument that 
TCS ought reasonably to have handled the sale instruction better by arranging the 
electronic/pdf bank statement submission at the outset. He agreed that TCS created an 
avoidable delay by returning the documents to the executor only to arrange the 
electronic/pdf submission thereafter anyway. He noted that TCS held no responsibility for the 
postal service delay, but that irrespective of that the return of the documentation - in itself - 
was an undue delay in the context of a stock sale instruction, where it would have known 
that delays could have an impact.
Computershare disagreed with this outcome. It maintained that it was right to apply due 
process under the relevant anti money laundering procedure and it objected to 
its exceptional decision to allow the pdf bank statement submission being used to uphold the 
complaint. The investigator was not persuaded to change his conclusion and the matter was 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I uphold the estate's 
complaint for broadly the same reason given by the investigator.
It is not necessary to have multiple reasons to uphold a complaint. Mindful of this, I do not 
address in detail the estate's primary argument about the redundancy of the identity 
verification and anti money laundering process that TCS insisted on applying. I do not 
suggest in any way that due process under an anti money laundering procedure should ever 
be compromised. It should not.
However, there appears to be potential for merit in the estate's argument. It appears to have 
exhausted and passed Computershare's procedure (and process) in this respect, with the 
holding's account duly updated in the name of the estate, with reference to the estate's bank 
account and with reference to the executor. If, as it appears, TCS had access to the registrar records and could have verified the executor's (and estate's) identity through such access, 
the question that arises is why the additional procedure was required.
As the investigator explained, the complaint is upheld because TCS - in the course of 
providing the DESS for Computershare - ought reasonably to have been conscious of how 
sensitive stock sale instructions can be, particularly with regards to avoidable delays. By 6 
March, it had all the documentation (including the application form of 1 March) submitted by 
the executor. This included his full contact details (telephone numbers and an email 
address).
In the context of a stock sale instruction and perhaps in the wider context of a firm's best 
execution responsibility, it would have been within reason for TCS to engage with the 
executor efficiently after receiving the documentation and in order to complete the process 
and the sale. It should have retained the documentation - which it appears to have done 
electronically. Upon identifying a problem with the bank statement and with the discretion to 
accept an electronic/pdf version, it ought reasonably to have sought this from the executor. 
Evidence suggests that the executor would have provided the pdf statement (and any 
other information required) immediately in response - as he did on 11 March - and both the 
process and sale would likely have been promptly completed.
But for TCS' failure to do what I have summarised above, the documentation would not have 
been returned to the executor, it would not have been resubmitted by international mail and 
it would not have been subject to the postal service error that delayed its delivery. I too do 
not hold Computershare responsible for the postal service error.  However, the point is that if 
the matter was handled as summarised above - and as it ought reasonably to have been 
handled - opportunity for the postal service error would not have existed.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am persuaded to uphold the estate's 
complaint.
Putting things right
The purpose of redress is to put the estate into the position it would be in had its stock sale 
application/instruction not been mishandled. In order to do so, I agree with the basis set out 
by the investigator - albeit with a slight amendment to the start date for the calculation of 
redress; I consider it safer to use 6 March 2019 in this respect as there is evidence that TCS 
was in receipt of and had processed (or at least considered) the documentation submitted by 
the executor by this date, was in a position to do as I have summarised above on this date 
and could probably have completed the DESS process and sale on this date.
I order Computershare to do the following:
1. Using the closing price for the relevant stock on 6 March 2019, calculate the total value of 
the estate's stockholding on this date in terms of what the total sale proceeds would have 
been if the stockholding was sold on this date. [ fair value]
2. Calculate the total sale proceeds derived from selling the estate's stockholding on 6 June 
2019. [actual value]
3. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, pay the estate the total difference. 
[redress amount]
4. As the investigator noted, there is a case to compensate the estate for being deprived of 
use of the actual value between 6 June 2019 and 20 June 2019. Pay the estate interest on 
the actual value at the rate of 8% simple per year from 6 June 2019 to 20 June 2019.5. To compensate the estate for being deprived of use of the redress amount, pay the estate
interest on the redress amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from 6 March 2019 to the
date of settlement.
6. Provide the estate with a calculation of the above in a clear and simple format.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the estate's complaint. I order 
Computershare Investor Services Plc to compensate the estate as detailed above and to 
provide it with a calculation of compensation in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman