DRN-3199839
The complaint
Mr P complains in his capacity as director of N, a limited company, that Smith Robinson Ltd
mis-sold N an unsuitable commercial property insurance policy, which resulted in the insurer
declining a theft claim.  
What happened
N instructed Smith Robinson to arrange contents insurance on its warehouse over the
course of several years. Ill focus this decision on the sale of the 2017 policy, the sale of the 
2018 policy and the subsequent renewal of the 2018 policy in 2019, as I consider
these to be the relevant sales for the purposes of this complaint.
When Smith Robinson arranged cover for N in 2017, the policy didnt have any requirements
for the warehouse alarm to contact the police or an alarm answering service. The 2018
policy however had a requirement that the premises would be protected by an alarm system 
with police response and remote signalling. The same policy was renewed in 2019.
In April 2020 the warehouse was broken into and a considerable amount of stock was
stolen. N made a claim under the policy it held at the time, but the insurer declined it, 
because the alarm didnt meet the required specifications under that policy.
Mr P complained to Smith Robinson, but Smith Robinson said Mr P had failed to properly
consider the insurance documents and that the absence of engagement on his part meant
he hadnt noticed the inaccuracies in relation to the alarm. It said that had he noticed those
inaccuracies, he couldve raised these with Smith Robinson and they wouldve then made
changes to Ns policy.
Mr P disagreed with Smith Robinsons response to the complaint and referred his complaint
to our service. Our investigator considered the issues and didnt think the complaint should
be upheld. He said Mr P had the opportunity to consider the policy terms and raise any
concerns he mightve had. Mr P didnt agree with our investigators assessment, so the
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued my provisional decision in this case on 17 November 2021, setting out why I thought 
Smith Robinson should pay for Ns losses. Ive included an extract below:
When Smith Robinson sold the policy to N, it carried out an advised sale. This means it had
to ensure that the policy was suitable for Ns needs. Ive considered what Smith Robinson
has said about Mr Ps admission that he didnt read through the documents provided, but I
still currently think the complaint should be upheld. I say this because the onus was on Smith
Robinson to recommend a policy that met Ns requirements  not just to provide N with
enough information for its director to make an informed choice.
Ive also considered that, under the Insurance Act 2015, commercial policyholders have to
volunteer the right sort of information  they have a duty to make a fair presentation of the
risk to the insurer when taking out a policy. This means they have to disclose either:
-Everything they know, or ought to know that would influence the judgment of an
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
-Enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
In this case, as the policy was sold by an intermediary (Smith Robinson) Ive considered the
information N presented to Smith Robinson, which Smith Robinson used in arranging the
policy. And having looked at the information N provided, I think it did make a fair 
presentation of the risk when discussing its needs with Smith Robinson. Ive based this 
mainly on the correspondence Ive seen. For example, in an email dated 30 November 2017
to a representative of Smith Robinson, Mr P says:
The alarm is monitored but not through ADT who Im not familiar with. We have
never had a maintenance contract in place. Please let me know if this is a problem as
I need to start searching the market ASAP if so.
From the above email, I consider it clear that Mr P placed significant importance on the
warehouse alarm system meeting the requirements of an insurance policy, such that he was
prepared to upgrade the alarm system if it did not.
The above email was in response to an email from Smith Robinsons representative on the
same date, which said:
you advised this afternoon that the alarm system does not go to central station but 
goes only to your mobile phone if activated. Could you please confirm that the alarm 
system is still via ADT and is subject to an annual maintenance contract.
Whilst I think the above shows Smith Robinson made further enquiries about material
circumstances (and therefore must have been put on notice to make such enquiries by Mr P,
which satisfies me that N disclosed enough information to Smith Robinson), I cant see that
Smith Robinson sought to clarify matters once Mr P had confirmed that there was no
maintenance contract in place.
Ive asked Smith Robinson to provide further emails between the parties on this date but
these arent available. Ive seen emails from a few days later however, on 6 December 2017,
in which Smith Robinsons representative asks Mr P: 
Can you please advise who installed the alarm. You confirmed that it is monitored 
but does not have an annual maintenance contract. Who checks the system and is it 
checked at least once a year?
Mr Ps response to this email confirms:
Alarm has been upgraded by Hydes Electrical last month, it is the latest Texecom
model, with commercial long range PIRs on, fobs so user tracked, and a dialer with 3
loud master blaster sirens connected.
I think N therefore discharged its duty of fair presentation by letting Smith Robinson know the
exact make and model of the alarm system at the warehouse. At no point did Mr P confirm in
any emails Ive seen that the alarm contacted the police and I havent seen any
correspondence in which Smith Robinson asks the question as to whether the new upgraded
alarm system contacts the police. I therefore consider that as N met its obligations under the
Insurance Act, it wouldnt be fair for its losses not to be recoverable. Had it not been for
Smith Robinsons failure to recommend a suitable policy following Ns disclosure of sufficientinformation, its likely Ns losses wouldve been indemnified by the insurer. Either because N
wouldve likely obtained a suitable policy, or because it wouldve upgraded its alarm system
to meet the policys requirements. The likelihood of the latter is supported by the email
evidence  specifically the email in which Mr P says if there is an issue he would like to know
so he can search the market as soon as possible.
Smith Robinson says it wouldnt be fair for it to be 100% liable for Ns losses based solely on
an email exchange. Ive thought carefully about what Smith Robinson has said  including
that the exchange was with an ex-employee, during a prior policy period, and the points its
made about letters it sent to N stating any inaccuracies should be advised to us
immediately as well as other submissions its made. But these points dont change my
current position, because I cant see that the alarm system was discussed again in the
subsequent renewals and discussions from 2018-2020, so I think the relevant exchanges
happened in 2017.
And I dont think its relevant that the discussions were with an ex-employee, because
although I may not have had sight of a full email chain for this reason, he was an employee
of Smith Robinson at the time and so represented Smith Robinson in the discussions that
took place. I appreciate what Smith Robinson has said about continuing to act for N, and
Mr P not reading the quotation documents and therefore not spotting any inaccuracies, but
as Ive mentioned above, this isnt the test I need to apply in this case under the Insurance
Act. Im satisfied that N disclosed enough information as required under the Act, and so I
think Smith Robinson had everything it needed to be able to recommend a suitable policy,
but failed to do so. This has caused N a loss that I think it should be compensated for.
In view of the above, I currently consider it fair for Smith Robinson to pay N the amount N
wouldve received under the policy had the insurer accepted the claim, plus interest.
I cannot consider the distress to individuals that might have been caused in this case 
because the entity thats brought this complaint is N, a limited company and not a natural
person that can experience distress. I have however considered the inconvenience caused
to N, by Smith Robinson recommending a policy that was unsuitable for Ns needs. I think
this resulted in the inconvenience of N having to contest the declinature of the claim, and
having to take the time to sort out all the problems which ensued after the burglary, which an
insurer wouldve sorted out and which wouldve been avoided had the policy sold met Ns
requirements. I consider this all wouldve taken away from time spent on other day to day
business activities. And so I currently think Smith Robinson should compensate N for this
inconvenience.
Ns representative responded to my provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing further 
to add. Smith Robinson also responded, saying it disagreed with my finding that it was liable 
for 100% of Ns losses. So Ive looked at the complaint again in light of the responses Ive 
received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ill be upholding this complaint in line with my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Smith Robinson has repeated its position, following my provisional decision, that two 
renewals occurred before the theft happened. And that at each of these renewals, N was 
given clear and unambiguous advice to read the policy documents and statement of fact carefully and to advise Smith Robinson of any inaccuracies. 
Ive thought carefully about what Smith Robinson has said. But, as Ive explained in my 
provisional decision, these points dont change the conclusion I reached, because the test 
Ive applied is not whether clear and unambiguous information was given to N by Smith 
Robinson, but whether N disclosed enough information to Smith Robinson as required under 
the Insurance Act. And Im still satisfied it did for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional 
decision.
Smith Robinson has also disagreed with the amount of interest Ive included in my 
provisional decision. Its said the proposal to award 8% interest on any sums due isnt fair as 
it will likely result in a windfall to N. It says it would expect N to provide evidence of any 
additional borrowing costs it has incurred, if any, as it finds it highly unlikely in the current 
environment that any business would be forced to borrow at such a high rate.
The 8% simple interest award I included in my provisional decision, payable on any sums 
due once the loss has been calculated, was included to reflect the fact that N has been 
deprived of the money the insurer wouldve paid out, had Smith Robinson recommended a 
suitable policy which met Ns needs. Whilst we can rarely say for certain what the cost is of 
being deprived of funds, I still think 8% simple interest is an appropriate amount because its 
possible that consumers and small businesses wouldve had to borrow at a higher rate than 
this  for example, because the rates on credit cards and some loans are often higher.
But the interest award isnt just to reflect the cost of borrowing, or lost opportunities to save 
money or invest it. A consumer or small business might also have gone without other things 
they really needed or couldve benefited from, because they didnt have funds they otherwise 
wouldve had. The rate also reflects the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts. So 
I think its still fair to award the rate of interest as set out in my provisional decision.
As no new information has been provided which has persuaded me to change the findings I 
previously reached, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions and I am 
therefore upholding this complaint in line with my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Smith Robinson Ltd must now do the following to put things right for N:
Appoint and pay for a qualified specialist loss adjuster to assess the value of Ns loss 
under the declined claim and to calculate how much the insurer wouldve paid out for 
the claim had it been accepted. (In appointing a loss adjuster Smith Robinson Ltd 
should offer N the choice of two loss adjusters from which N should choose).
Pay N the amount the insurer wouldve paid under the claim according to the 
appointed expert. It should also pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount 
from the date the insurer declined the claim until the date Smith Robinson makes 
payment.
Pay N £250 for the inconvenience caused to it by Smith Robinson Ltd recommending 
a policy that was unsuitable for its needs. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Smith Robinson Ltd to put things right as Ive set out 
above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman