DRN-2735204
The complaint
Mr D complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd refused to let him reject a faulty car. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Blue is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was supplied by a dealer based a fair distance form Mr Ds home and some minor 
issues were to be dealt by a local branch of that dealer. Although Mr D has raised some 
issues about this work I do not consider those to have any significance in reaching my view 
of his complaint. 
The car was given a health check on 4 February after Mr D had covered 3,000 miles and no 
major issues were found and nothing was identified concerning battery or power supplies.
However, the car lost power in February and it was taken to a local dealer which could not 
identify any fault. Mr D says it lost power again the following month and he arranged for it to 
be jump started. It next suffered a loss of power in September and Mr D took the car to 
another dealer. It could not find any faults. The car had covered some 12,000 miles in the 
ten months since Mr D acquired it. Mr D complained to Blue.
Blue sought evidence of any faults which may have caused the loss of power, but nothing 
was forthcoming.  Our investigator suggested Mr D provide an independent report and he 
arranged for a diagnostic test to be carried out. This was done on 22 March 2021 and it 
found that the battery had low voltage fault. However, by this time car had been left unused 
for several months and this may have caused the battery to drain. 
So, it appears that the car has lost power on three occasions but continues to work apart 
from those times and neither of the two garages have been able to identify the fault despite 
extensive testing. The most recent diagnostic is not of much value since the car had been 
sitting unused for a period. However, the diagnostic carried out shortly after acquisition 
showed no power issues.
The RAC report from the February failure states that there was a 12v supply failure which 
suggests a battery issue. Batteries are wear and tear times and the car was some six years 
old and had covered 46,000 miles so if it had worn out that would not be a reason to allow 
rejection. 
As our investigator has explained we need to be satisfied the car wasnt fit for purpose at the 
point of sale. Given the February diagnostic found it satisfactory and it also passed its MOT 
in October 2019 I cannot say with any certainty that it wasnt fit for purpose at the point of 
sale.
I have noted the recall notice Mr D has supplied for another model made by the parent 
company of his cars manufacturer. That said there has been no recall for his car and so I 
cannot say that the issues he faced are connected to that recall. 
I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed, but on balance, I do not consider I can say that the 
car was faulty at the point of sale and so I am unbale to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman