DRN-1117100
The complaint
Mr B complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC didn't allow him to withdraw money from his 
savings account.
What happened
Mr B has a fixed rate saver account with Tesco. And this account is due to mature in 2021.
Mr B needed to buy a new car, and he applied for a loan with Tesco to help him do this.        
 Mr B's loan application was declined, so he asked Tesco if he could to withdraw money 
from the fixed rate savers account he held with them. Tesco said Mr B's account didn't allow 
partial withdrawals, or for money to be withdrawn before the account matured - unless the 
circumstances were exceptional. Mr B wasn't happy, and he complained about Tesco's 
decision. He explained his circumstances were exceptional because he needed a car to get 
to and from work.
Tesco reviewed Mr B's concerns and issued their final response. Tesco maintained that they 
didn't consider Mr B's circumstances were exceptional. Tesco also gave some examples of 
exceptional circumstances to clarify their decision. Mr B remained unhappy, so he brought 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didn't uphold Mr B's complaint. She said the terms and conditions of his 
savings account didn't allow withdrawals before it's maturity date. She also didn't think Mr 
B's circumstances fitted Tesco's meaning of exceptional.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. So, his case was passed to me to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr B's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome Mr B wanted. But I'll explain my reasons below.
In order to reach a decision in this case, the first thing I had to consider were the terms and 
conditions of Mr B's savings account. That's because they set out how Mr B and Tesco need 
to manage the account.
 
 
 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions, I saw that page three of the booklet had the 
heading "No Early Withdrawals & Account Closures". And under this section it says "Can I 
withdraw money and close my account? No. You can't take money out until your fixed rate term ends." This section goes on to explain money can be withdrawn in exceptional 
circumstances, and gives the examples of "death, diagnosis of a terminal illness, 
bankruptcy, insolvency or sequestration." Given this wording, I consider it's clear Mr B's type 
of savings account doesn't allow withdrawals before the maturity date in the majority of 
circumstances.
I consider not being able to make withdrawals is a key feature of Mr B's account. So I would 
expect a bank to make this clear to its customers. I've seen the welcome letter Mr B was 
sent when he opened his account. This letter has the heading "Paying money into your 
account". And under this, Tesco said "there are no withdrawals permitted until your maturity 
date." The letter also said the terms and conditions and account summary box were 
enclosed. 
I've already the mentioned the relevant term from the terms and conditions booklet above. 
However, the account summary box also explains money can only be withdrawn from the 
account in exceptional circumstances. And it lists the same examples quoted above. It 
also says that "House purchases are not considered exceptional circumstances". The 
account summary box is a single page document. So I'm persuaded Tesco took steps to 
clearly explain there are limited circumstances in which money can be withdrawn from a 
fixed rate saver account. The welcome letter was sent to the address we have on file for Mr 
B. So, I consider it's most likely Mr B would have received it and had the opportunity to 
review the terms and conditions that applied to his account.
As mentioned above, I'm satisfied money can only be withdrawn from Mr B's account in 
exceptional circumstances. So I've had to decide whether Mr B's circumstances fall into this 
category.
Mr B wanted to withdraw funds from his account because he needed to buy a new car, 
and Tesco had declined his application for a loan to help with the purchase. Mr B has told us 
that he leaves for work in the early hours of the morning - and he needs a car for his 
commute.
I've considered the examples Tesco gave of exceptional circumstances. And having done 
so, I don't consider Mr B falls within this category. I appreciate it would be incredibly difficult 
for Mr B to get to work without a car. And I'm sorry to hear he's found himself in this 
situation. But I can't fairly say his circumstances are comparable to death, diagnosis of a 
terminal illness or bankruptcy - to name a few examples.
I don't consider Mr B's circumstances are exceptional within the meaning of the terms and 
conditions of his savings account. So, it's for this reason I can't say Tesco treated Mr B 
unfairly by not allowing him to withdraw money from his savings account before its maturity 
date.
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr B's complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman