DRN-2620583
The complaint
Mr G through his wife complains that Vitality Health Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably
when dealing with his requests to change private medical insurance policies and claims
made. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr G had the benefit of a private medical insurance policy with Vitality from 2016, taken out
personally originally with full medical underwriting. Mr G changed the policy later to one
through his own business and with continued personal medical exclusions.
Mrs G started a new job, which offered access to a corporate medical insurance policy with
Vitality, but this policy was offered on a moratorium basis (excluding pre-existing medical
conditions for a period). Mr G said he asked to move his medical cover to the corporate
policy, and was told hed have to cancel his original policy. Mr G said that he wasnt told that
this would mean Mr and Mrs G would join the corporate policy as new customers and
wouldnt be covered by pre-existing medical conditions for a period due to the moratorium.
Mr and Mrs G moved onto the corporate plan in March 2019.
Later in 2019, Mrs G left her job and Mr G asked Vitality to switch the cover to a new policy
to be taken out by his business to cover the family. This policy was a moratorium policy. It
was then Mr G said he found out what had happened earlier. Mr G said that the new policy
had caused claims to be declined as they related to pre-existing medical conditions which
were covered by the original policy and excluded now.
Mr G complained to Vitality. It said when Mr G asked to move onto Mrs Gs corporate
insurance policy, Mrs Gs employer had refused to accept him with continuous cover and
required him to be treated as a new member. Vitality said that the information confirming this
was sent and a copy put in the online member zone for Mr and Mrs G to review. Nothing was
challenged until August 2019. Vitality said when Mr G wanted his own business policy again,
it agreed to cover him as if hed been a member from when he joined the corporate policy
and Mr G accepted this. It said Mr G had accepted the terms and conditions of the policies
when he joined each one. Vitality pointed out that Mrs Gs former employer had the right to
refuse to allow Mr G to join on the basis that he wanted as it was the scheme controller.
Mr G complained to us. The investigators view was that Mr G had taken out or been a
beneficiary of a number of policies, but he had chosen to cancel the policy in place when he
wanted to join the corporate scheme. The investigator said he couldnt comment on what
cover couldve been offered in such circumstances, but would look at whether the terms and
conditions of the current policy had been correctly applied. He said that it excluded pre-
existing medical conditions and the documents given to Mr G made it clear that he was
joining on this basis.
The investigator added that the medical evidence used to support Mr Gs claims confirmed
that the claims related to a pre-existing medical condition and said that it was fair and
reasonable for Vitality to refuse to pay. The investigator added that if Mr G felt the current
policy had been mis-sold, he should complain to the agent involved, but an employer offering
a corporate policy was able to refuse to allow new joiners to have continuous cover.
Mrs G disagreed. She said that Mr G said he was told he could have continuous cover when
he joined the corporate scheme. Mrs G pointed out that this had been a core part of the
complaint from the start.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Having reviewed this matter, I think Mr Gs complaint at its heart is in two parts and this
service hasnt dealt with one aspect. Mr G from his complaint is complaining more about the
terms and conditions of his policy, given the complex history, than the refusal to pay his
claims which arise from the terms and conditions that have been applied. I think this can be
broken down into the three questions below.
What happened when the corporate policy was taken out?
Mr G says originally he took out a personal policy in his name with full medical underwriting
and claims similar to the one now unpaid were covered. This is correct, but Mr G has
overlooked that he changed the nature of his policy several times since 2016. He changed it
from a personal policy to a business policy; he also changed it from a full medically
underwritten policy to one with continued personal medical exclusions. Ive seen the
certificates of insurance confirming these changes and explaining the impact of these
changes on the insurance offered. All this happened before the issue of the corporate policy
arose. It would be incorrect to say Mr G had always been fully medically underwritten and
not subject to exclusions for pre-existing medical conditions before he joined the corporate
policy.
Vitality accepts that Mr G is right when he says when he asked to join his wifes corporate
policy, he was initially told that Vitality was willing to let him join with continuous cover. But
his wifes employer refused to agree as its policy was that employees and their families
joined as new members (which meant the cost to it would be less). That isnt something for
which Vitality is responsible.
Vitality in my view did tell Mr G that he could only join on a moratorium basis by sending the
documents and certificate of insurance setting this out, and placing the information in the
online member zone. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to expect Vitality to
have done more as it did not given advice about the suitability of the policy to meet Mr Gs
needs  its fair and reasonable to expect policyholders to read key documents and contact
the insurer to cancel within the cooling off period if the policy doesnt meet their needs. The
certificate says in simple terms when the moratorium starts and ends which is what is
required of Vitality.
What happened when the current policy was taken out?
Mr G in his complaint confirmed that he was told he couldnt have continuous cover from
2016 when he took out the current policy. He chose to take out the policy on the basis on
which it was offered. I note that the terms and conditions of the previous policy said Vitality
would only offer cover as if it had been taken out from the start of the corporate policy if the
policyholder took out an individual personal plan and had been a member of the corporate
plan for at least two years. Despite Mr G not meeting these terms, Vitality agreed to treat him
as if he had, which is more than fair and reasonable.
The information given to Mr G makes it clear that the policy has a moratorium and againexplains its impact. Mr G not only took out the policy but didnt cancel it on receipt of this
information within the cooling off period.
The core of this aspect of the complaint is that Mr G wanted Vitality to offer him a policy as
he originally held in 2016. But this service doesnt require insurers to offer specific policies 
insurers are able to decide what risks theyre willing to insure and on what basis. The type of
cover Mr G says he should be offered is likely in any event to cost him much more than the
moratorium policy he has. It is open to him to cancel the policy and take out a fully medically
underwritten policy with an insurer if he feels this would meet his needs better.
Is it fair and reasonable for Vitality to refuse to pay the claims made?
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr Gs policy is subject to a moratorium period excluding pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr G doesnt dispute that the unpaid claims do relate to such conditions; the medical
evidence confirms this. In all the circumstances, I cant say Vitality has acted unfairly or
unreasonably in refusing to pay claims not covered by the policy in place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. Having reviewed the complaint again, I 
think the findings as set out in my provisional decision are fair and reasonable and I confirm 
them as my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 
23 March 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman