DRN-4465173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain about the way that Vitality Health Limited has handled claims they 
made on a personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
In January 2023, Mr and Mrs V took out a personal private medical insurance policy. In late 
January 2023, Mrs V made a claim for investigation into a breast lump. And in February 
2023, she made a claim for varicose veins.
Vitality looked into Mrs Vs claims and it asked for further information from third-party 
medical professionals. Mrs V chased Vitality at regular intervals for updates on her claims 
but was told that the claims remained under review. 
Unhappy with the delays shed experienced, Mrs V made a complaint to Vitality about its 
claims handling. Vitality didnt respond to Mrs Vs complaint within the eight-week timeframe 
set out by the industry regulator and nor did it provide her with an outcome to either of her 
claims. So she asked us to look into her complaint.
After the complaint had been brought to us, Vitality issued its final response letter on 16 
June 2023. Briefly, Vitality explained that it had needed further information in order to assess 
both claims. It stated that it had decided that Mrs Vs breast claim could be accepted in 
March 2023, but that it was still in the process of reviewing the varicose vein claim. It 
acknowledged that it hadnt handled Mrs Vs claims as well as it should have done and so it 
paid her £75 compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Vitality had handled Mrs Vs claim fairly. She noted that on 4 
June 2023  prior to Vitality sending its final response letter  Mrs V had provided it with 
consent to access her medical records. However, nine months after the claim had been 
made, Vitality still hadnt made a decision in respect of Mrs Vs claim for varicose veins. This 
was despite it being aware that Mrs V had booked a procedure for the end of August 2023, 
which she had undergone and self-funded. So she didnt think Vitality had paid Mrs V fair 
compensation to reflect the trouble and upset its handling of the claim had caused her. She 
therefore recommended that Vitality should pay total compensation of £250 and that it 
should make a claims decision within four weeks of her assessment.
Vitality disagreed with the investigators findings. It sent us a copy of a letter, dated 4 
October 2023, which it had sent to Mr and Mrs V. The letter, in brief, stated that it considered 
that Mr and Mrs V had made a misrepresentation about Mrs Vs health when theyd taken 
out the policy and that depending on Mr and Mrs Vs comments, it intended to apply an 
exclusion on cover. The letter also stated that once an exclusion had been applied, the claim 
would be reassessed in line with the new cover terms. 
So Vitality considered that many of the delays in assessing the claim had been driven by 
misrepresentation and that this therefore ought to have been taken into account. It also 
thought that we should consider the claims handling and ultimate claims decision as one 
complaint. It told us that it had agreed to pay Mr and Mrs V £100 compensation, but given 
the misrepresentation, it didnt think it was fair to ask it to increase the award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that the fair outcome to this complaint is for 
Vitality to pay Mr and Mrs V a total of £250 compensation and Ill explain why.
First, I must make the parameters of this decision clear. Since the investigator issued her 
findings on Mr and Mrs Vs complaint, Vitality has contacted Mr and Mrs V to let them know 
that it thinks they answered some of its medical screening questions wrongly when they 
applied for the policy and that therefore, it intends to add a retrospective exclusion to the 
contract.
However, I note that this letter asked for Mr and Mrs Vs comments and indicated that the 
claim would be reassessed if and when an exclusion was applied to the policy. It seems to 
me then that no claims decision had been made at the point the complaint was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision. Nor have Mr and Mrs V asked us to consider a complaint about 
this particular issue. Their complaint  and the complaint Vitality addressed in its final 
response letter  was about the delays in Vitality handling their claim and the poor service 
theyd received. Therefore, my decision is limited to considering the delays in reaching 
claims decisions and the service Mr and Mrs V received. If Mr and Mrs V are unhappy with 
Vitalitys proposal to add an exclusion to their policy or with any claims decision it 
consequently goes on to make, they may be able to make a new complaint to us about that 
issue alone.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. 
Vitality accepts that it didnt handle Mr and Mrs Vs claims as well as it should have done and 
so it now says it is prepared to pay £100 compensation to reflect this. So Ive gone on to 
decide whether I think this is a fair and reasonable award.
And I dont think it was. Having looked at Vitalitys claims notes, I accept that much of the 
delay in assessing both claims was caused by it needing to ask for further medical and other 
information. However, its clear that Mrs V wasnt called back at times when I think she 
should have been. She was put to unnecessary time and trouble in chasing things up. I also 
think there were periods when the breast claim in particular appeared to be largely inactive. I 
say that because I can see that Vitality had agreed to accept this claim on 16 March 2023. 
But the notes dont suggest that this decision was communicated to Mrs V at this point, or 
that the invoice was actioned until early June 2023. The notes also indicate that two 
excesses had been applied to invoices in error, which I think is also likely to have caused 
some additional worry to Mrs V.
Im mindful too that Vitality was aware that Mrs V had booked surgery to treat varicose veins 
which was due to take place at the end of August 2023. I appreciate it needed more 
information before making a cover decision. But I cant see that Vitality provided Mrs V with 
meaningful or regular updates about the progress of her claim after she submitted her 
consent to access her medical records on 4 June 2023. It seems Mrs V continued to get in 
touch with Vitality to chase things up but didnt receive a substantive update until the letter of 
4 October 2023. In my view, while Vitality may not have been in a position to provide a 
claims decision at the point it issued its final response and in the months afterwards, I do think it could have kept Mrs V better updated throughout a broadly nine-month period.
Overall then, I agree with our investigator that a total award of £250 compensation (less any 
amount already paid) is a fair and reasonable award to recognise the trouble and upset I 
think Vitalitys delays in handling Mrs Vs claim and the poor service it provided caused her. 
So Im now directing Vitality to pay Mr and Mrs V total compensation of £250. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr and Mrs V total compensation of £250 (less any 
amount its already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman