DRN-2547861
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about how Swinton Group Ltd administered her motor insurance 
policy. Mrs T is represented in this matter by her husband, Mr T, a named driver on her 
policy.
What happened
Mrs T took out a policy through Swinton and set her communication preferences to email as 
she was away from her main address. The insurer wanted more information and Swinton 
wrote to Mrs T at her main address to request this. A second letter warned her that her 
policy would be cancelled with 7 days notice if she didnt provide this information. Mrs T 
didnt respond, and a cancellation letter was sent. Swinton said this was its process. But it 
later waived its cancellation fee and provided Mrs T with alternative cover. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs T had 
told Swinton, in response to its request, that her preferred means of communication was 
email. She thought Swinton should have sent its information requests by post and email. 
She thought this could have prevented Mrs Ts policy being cancelled by the insurer. She 
thought Swinton should pay Mrs T £100 compensation for its level of service. 
Mrs T replied that the insurer said that Swinton had cancelled her policy. Swinton agreed 
that it had done this, not the insurer. It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs T feels frustrated with the service shes received. Mrs T said she 
didnt receive Swintons correspondence and so didnt know her policy had been cancelled. 
Fortunately, nothing untoward happened in the meantime. And her insurer has said that she 
neednt declare the cancellation to future insurers.
I can see that Mrs T has also raised a complaint with her insurer. But I can only consider the 
actions of Swinton here. From what I can understand, and as confirmed by the insurer and 
Swinton, this was a broker-led cancellation. So Ive considered whether Swintons acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably in administering 
Mrs Ts policy.
Mrs Ts central concern is that she didnt receive her correspondence by email. Swinton said 
firstly that it sent its cancellation notice and letter by post according to its process and also 
according to Mrs Ts preference. It later told us that Mrs Ts preferred method of contact was 
email, and it provided evidence of this. So Mrs Ts stated preferred means of contact was 
email. But Swinton said it had to send advice about cancellation by post. 
We believe that brokers should take reasonable steps to ensure that policy holders are told 
that their policy has been cancelled as this will have serious consequences for them and 
expose them to possible court action.
Swinton said its terms and conditions required the notice of cancellation to be sent by post. 
But I dont agree. In Swintons policy booklet under the section Cancelling your policy 
which states When we may cancel your policy, it says,
We may cancel your policy by sending you, or Swinton Insurance sending you, 7 days 
written notice to your last known address, if we have a good reason to cancel your policy.
The policy term doesnt specify that the written notice has to be sent by post, just that it has 
to be sent to an address. Swinton had offered Mrs T the options of contact by post, email or 
online portal. So as Mrs T had set her contact preference to email, I can see no reason why 
Swinton didnt send its letters to her by email, or by email and post. Mrs T could then have 
provided the additional information required and so have avoided the cancellation. 
Mr T thought Swinton should have put the cancellation on hold until it had heard from them. I 
can see that Mrs T was obliged by the policy terms and conditions to tell Swinton of any 
changes in her circumstances, which I think could reasonably include her residence. But I 
cant see that shed told Swinton that they were away from their main address for four 
months. So I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Swinton to know this or to put the 
cancellation on hold until it had heard from them.
So I cant say that Swinton acted fairly or reasonably in administering Mrs Ts policy. The 
impact was that Mrs T had the upset of finding that she was uninsured and then she had to 
arrange alternative cover. I think Swinton reasonably refunded Mrs Ts cancellation charge 
and it said it found her alternative cover at a lower cost. So I cant see that the cancellation 
had any further impact on Mrs T.
Putting things right
The investigator recommended that Swinton should pay Mrs T £100 compensation for this 
trouble and upset. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. And I require Swinton Group Ltd to pay 
Mrs T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service 
in administering her policy.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman