DRN-1861609
The complaint
Miss M has complained that St. Andrews Insurance Plc has suspended an unemployment 
claim she made on her mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. She says that 
the information St Andrews is asking for in support of the claim is unreasonable.
What happened
I wrote a provisional decision in April 2020 in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint and in which I set out the following background information:
Miss M had made a previous successful claim for unemployment between 1 September 
2017 and 4 June 2018. This was because her self-employed business had ceased trading 
due to poor sales.
She then made a new claim for unemployment for the period beginning 22 January 2019. St 
Andrews accepted the claim and began paying out on it. Miss M was required to complete a 
continuing claim form each month and to provide supporting evidence, such as three pieces 
of job search evidence per month.
On 23 June 2019, Miss M contacted St Andrews to say she could only produce one piece of 
job search evidence for the preceding month due to problems with her phone. Because of 
this, Miss M was told that her case would be passed to an assessor for review.
In reviewing the case file and the information that Miss M had provided in support of her 
current claim, that flagged up inconsistencies with what she had told them previously in 
relation to her first claim. For instance, the first claim was for the period 1 September 2017 to 
4 June 2018. Miss M had signed monthly declarations during this period stating that she had 
not undertaken any paid or unpaid work since the commencement of her claim. As far as St 
Andrews had been aware, Miss M was totally unemployed for that period. However, 
evidence that came to light during the current claim was that:
Miss M had undertaken casual work during the period of the first claim.
Miss M said she had been self-employed from June 2016 to June 2018, however she 
had needed more income. Her social media accounts appeared to show that she had 
still been trading during the period of the first claim.
Miss Ms self-employed business had taken on premises which opened on 4 May 
2018 and yet Miss M didnt declare a return to work until 4 June 2018, when she 
started a permanent employed job.
That Miss M had a business partner that had never been mentioned before.
In relation to the current claim that started in January 2019, further potential inconsistencies 
came to light, which were that:
Miss Ms social media accounts suggested that she was continuing to trade in her 
self-employed business.
That Miss M was undertaking voluntary work.
According to St Andrews, Miss M had never informed them of any of the above, which she 
was required to do under the terms of the policy. It therefore asked her to provide the 
following information:
Job search evidence that shes previously been unable to provide  because Miss M 
had confirmed shed be able to access it through the job website that shed used.
A letter from the voluntary organisation she was working for, confirming her hours 
and whether the work was paid or unpaid.
Copies of bank statements from 1 September 2017 to date.
Documents relating to her previous casual work.
A copy of the letter that Miss M said she had sent to St Andrews to inform it that her 
self-employed business would be opening premises on 4 May 2018.
Details of Miss Ms business partner and documents confirming that Miss M had 
suffered a financial loss following the opening of her business premises in May 2018.
St Andrews told Miss M that it would review her ongoing claim upon receipt of this 
information.
Miss M did respond to some of the issues. So she said that the voluntary work was in fact 
training which had been cancelled and she was no longer going to undertake work with that 
organisation. She said she probably wouldnt be able to find a copy of the letter she had 
written and it was unreasonable to expect her to be able to find it now. She said that shed 
checked the dates and she didnt have a business partner at the time of the first claim. She 
said she thought shed rung St Andrews to tell them about the casual work but that it didnt 
matter anyway as shed be told by them that working part-time wouldnt affect her claim. She 
said that although she was registered as self-employed from June 2016 to June 2018, she 
didnt make any money during that time. 
Although Miss M did respond to some of the enquiries, as far as Im aware, she didnt 
provide any of the evidence that St Andrews had asked for. St Andrews therefore told Miss 
M that it was suspending the claim until it had received everything it was requesting. 
Following on from that, and because it heard no more from Miss M, my understanding is that 
they have now cancelled the policy and are requesting repayment from Miss M of the total 
amount that she received for both claims.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M doesnt think that St Andrews should be able to impose restrictions on the current 
claim based on concerns raised over a previous claim. However, information that she 
provided as part of her second claim had the effect of casting doubt on the validity of her first 
claim. And that, unfortunately, casts doubt on the validity of Miss Ms second claim. I 
consider it is reasonable for St Andrews to maintain an overview of a policyholders history. 
It wouldnt make sense for St Andrews to be seeking repayment of the first claim whilst 
simultaneously paying out on the second. And not all of the information that has been 
requested relates purely to the first claim, as detailed in the bullet points above.
Miss M seems to particularly object to being asked for a copy of the letter that she says she 
sent about her return to work in May 2018 and for copies of her bank statements.
Miss M says she did send St Andrews a letter but that shes unlikely to be able to find it now. 
She says she has since been through a divorce and, if anywhere, the letter is most likely to be on her ex-husbands laptop. She thinks it is therefore unreasonable that she is being 
asked for this. Given the change in Miss Ms circumstances, I agree that may be one of the 
reasons why she might be unable to produce this letter. Therefore, if Miss M really is unable 
to find a copy of it, St Andrews should take this into account, alongside all of the other 
evidence that Miss M is able to provide, when reviewing the claim.
With regard to her bank statements, Miss M says she doesnt want to give them to St 
Andrews as she feels it will judge her. She says she has been in financial difficulty due to 
her chance of circumstances. Insurance companies regularly deal with policyholders at times 
when they are unwell or suffering financially, which is why they are making a claim. I 
understand Miss Ms discomfort, but overall, I consider that St Andrews request for bank 
statements from September 2017 is a reasonable one. In fact, given the irregularities in the 
evidence provided so far, Im satisfied that it is reasonable for St Andrews to have asked for 
all of the information that it has requested.
In response to my provisional decision, Miss M says she clarified with St Andrews over the 
phone that a certain amount of voluntary work or casual work wouldnt affect the claim and 
that she followed its advice. But, as I understand it, those conversations were in relation to 
potential work. Miss M would still have needed to inform St Andrews if she actually 
undertook any such work and I havent seen any evidence that she did so.
Miss M also queried why St Andrews needed bank statements for periods when she wasnt 
claiming. It was explained that St Andrews request was as a result of the discrepancies in 
the previous information provided.
More recently Miss M has stated that she is trying to get all of the information together that 
St Andrews has requested. However, she has said that, due to recent ill health, she will 
need extra time to do this.
As Miss M now appears to be complying with St Andrews request for information, I see no 
need to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I do 
not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
To be clear, St Andrews has only suspended Miss Ms claim until it receives more 
information from Miss M to validate it further. I would expect St Andrews to fully review the 
claim and make a decision on continuing it or declining it, once it receives the required 
information.
My final decision
St Andrews request for further information to validate the claim is reasonable. Therefore, my 
decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman