DRN-2336975
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the motorhome vehicle she acquired through a conditional sale 
agreement financed by PCF Bank Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to end 
the agreement and reject the vehicle.
What happened
Mrs B tells us that in late March 2019 she acquired the new motorhome vehicle through a 
dealer Ill refer to as M. She says that faults showed within a month and shes now 
experienced numerous problems with the vehicle. The faults included the battery persistently 
draining and becoming flat; sink blocked; and leak under the bed. She says that the 
problems have persisted. And that after the vehicle again experienced a flat battery at the 
end of August 2019, Mrs B states that she contacted PCF in September 2019 and told it she 
wanted to reject the vehicle. She says PCF has since refused her request.
PCF accepts there were faults with the vehicle when it was supplied. But it says it hasnt 
been given the chance to arrange for the vehicle to be repaired. And that it wont support 
Mrs Bs request to reject it.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 September 2020. I said that I 
intended to uphold the complaint. And that I was satisfied it was reasonable for Mrs B to 
arrange with M and return the vehicle to it (M) for repairs. And that I doubted if PCF wouldve 
done anything different. I also said that even after PCF became aware of the faults it had 
taken several months for these to be repaired. And that it hadnt been reasonable to expect 
Mrs B to wait this length of time. Being without the vehicle for this length of time had caused 
her significant inconvenience. I thought it was fair and reasonable Mrs B should now be 
allowed to reject the vehicle as it hadnt been of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Mrs B has responded accepting my provisional view. PCF hasnt replied. I thank Mrs B for 
her response. And as Ive not been provided with any further information, Im not minded to 
change my provisional decision. This is largely repeated in my final decision which is set out 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. PCF supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I can understand why Mrs B would be upset at the numerous problems she experienced with 
this vehicle. It was effectively a new vehicle when she acquired it and the sales invoice 
shows it was first registered in late 2018. It was supplied to her with just 24 miles recorded 
on the odometer.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of price, previous use and durability. The cash price which Mrs B paid was almost £38,000 
and the vehicle, as effectively new, should have been supplied without even minor defects.
Mrs Bs complaint is that the motorhome that was supplied had numerous faults and that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. In addition, she complains that repairs were unsuccessful and / 
or took too long to complete. She lost faith in the vehicle and wants to reject it.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Summarised, the CRA gives the consumer two options to reject goods which dont conform 
to contract when supplied. The short term right to reject usually has to be exercised within 30 
days of supply. Otherwise the trader / supplier has one opportunity to repair the goods so 
that they are restored to a condition where they do conform to contract. If the repairs fail, or 
take an unreasonable time to complete, the consumer can then exercise the final right to 
reject the goods. This is what Mrs B has tried to do.
Theres ample evidence that this vehicle had various faults which as essentially a new 
vehicle should not have been present. The battery persistently drained and Ive seen the 
information from two reports from a recovery company Ill call R. It attended the vehicle on 
8 April and 31 August 2019. It found the battery to be flat on both occasions. This was 
apparently due to a fault with the split-charger.
Mrs B then arranged for the vehicle to be examined on 9 September 2019 by a company Ill 
refer to as J. It confirmed the battery was being drained by body conversion equipment. 
And it also reported that an incorrect battery was fitted, and the terminal couldnt be correctly 
connected.
Earlier, in May and June 2019, Mrs B had also reported water ingress. And I note that on 27 
January 2020 the annual habitation check carried out by M revealed that the vehicle was 
found to be damp in the area of the off-side wheel box and nearside rear window. 
On 21 September 2019 Mrs B wrote to PCF outlining the faults with the vehicle. And she 
said she wanted to reject the vehicle and obtain a full refund. PCF issued a final response 
letter dated 24 January 2020 in which it declined to agree to the request to reject and stating 
that the vehicle had been repaired.
PCF has said it wont support Mrs Bs rejection of the vehicle as it wasnt given the 
opportunity to have the vehicle repaired before she asked to reject it. I dont agree with this 
submission and Ill explain why.
The finance agreement here is a conditional sale agreement. This means that PCF retains 
legal ownership of the vehicle until Mrs B has repaid the full amount. But whilst the vehicle is 
in her possession the terms and conditions require that she keeps the vehicle in good condition. As M initially supplied the financed vehicle, it was entirely reasonable for Mrs B to 
turn to M when the faults were discovered. I find it implausible to think that PCF wouldve 
acted any differently.
Following the report of R at the end of August 2019, and subsequently Js report, the vehicle 
seemingly wasnt picked up by M until December. So even after Mrs B wrote to PCF seeking 
to reject the vehicle it seems to have taken several months for repairs to be undertaken. I 
understand this may have been in part due to the manufacturers of the component ceasing 
to trade.
Where the supplier is entitled or permitted to undertake repairs the CRA states that these 
should be carried out within a reasonable time and without causing significant inconvenience 
to the consumer.
I remain of the view that Mrs B was entitled to reject the vehicle due to the repeat battery 
faults and that PCF shouldve accepted her request. Even if I accepted PCFs view that it 
had not previously been given the opportunity to repair the vehicle theres no doubt it was 
aware of the issues in September 2019. And apart from the delay in arranging repairs, the 
vehicle was discovered at the annual habitation check to have areas of damp. The vehicle at 
this stage was around 15 months old. I wouldnt expect a vehicle of this age to be exhibiting 
problems with damp. This would additionally call into question the durability of the vehicle.
The vehicle was not fully repaired until March 2020. In my opinion this delay of around six 
months is far beyond any reasonable time to expect a consumer to wait. And being without 
meaningful use of the vehicle from the end of August 2019 until March 2020 is obviously a 
significant inconvenience. I note that at the date of the habitation check the vehicle had an 
odometer reading of only 619 miles. And even part of this mileage would be accounted for 
by return journeys to M which Mrs B says is a 58 miles round trip from her home.
Ive taken on board that PCF has referred to a court case in 2019 which it feels is relevant. 
The issues under consideration included whether the original motor dealer was acting on 
behalf of the supplier (finance company) when determining if a repair opportunity had been 
afforded to the supplier. As far as Ive been able to check this was a County Court decision 
at first instance. And doesnt create any legal precedent. Ive already explained that I dont 
apply the law directly and I dont consider this case has any application here.
For the reasons Ive already given, Im satisfied the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And I find that Mrs B is entitled to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
Mrs B should be refunded the cost of the inspection report by J and the habitation check by 
M. Along with insurance and reasonable storage costs where incurred. I wont ask PCF to 
refund road fund licence costs as if the vehicle is off road and unused a SORN declaration 
couldve been made.
In her reply to my provisional decision Mrs B did inform me that PCF had insisted the vehicle 
be maintained in a roadworthy condition  which included current road fund licence costs. 
But I still thought that the vehicle couldve been subject of a SORN declaration. And Mrs B 
has advised our investigator that she doesnt wish to press this issue further.
Putting things right
PCF should now take the following action:
1. End the agreement with nothing for Mrs B to pay for any period after 21 September 
2019, when she notified PCF Bank Limited of her wish to reject the vehicle;2. Arrange collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mrs B;
3. Refund Mrs B her cash deposit;
4. Refund Mrs B monthly rental payments made for any period accruing after 21 
September 2019, pro rata where necessary;
5. Upon proof of payment, refund vehicle insurance, and storage costs from 21 
September 2019 up to date of collection;
6. Refund Mrs B £168 being the cost of Js inspection;
7. Refund Mrs B £210.60 to cover costs for the habitation report and inspection;
8. Pay £300 to Mrs B for distress and inconvenience;
9. Arrange for the removal of any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mrs 
Bs credit file. And arrange to have the agreement recorded as settled.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to sums arising from items 
3,4,5,6 and 7 above.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I require PCF Bank Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the immediately preceding 
section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman