DRN-3210092
The complaint
 Mr M complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc imposed unfair charges at the end of his car 
lease agreement and failed to let him know that puncture repairs were covered under his 
maintenance agreement. 
What happened
 In July 2017 Mr M entered into a lease agreement for a new car. This was due to end on 16 
August. In July 2020 Mr M was in contact with the broker about extending the lease but 
concluded he would seek an alternative solution. On 23 July he asked the broker what is 
the protocol for the car pickup?. It responded on 24 July that Hitachi would contact him to 
make the arrangements to collect the car.
As he didnt hear from Hitachi he made contact on the day after the lease ended and was 
told that due to the pandemic the processes were different. However, the car was collected 
on 26 August. Hitachi charged Mr M for the excess period he had held the car after the end 
of the lease.
At the end of the lease Mr M also discovered that repairs to punctures were covered by his 
maintenance agreement. He had taken his car to the approved dealer which had carried out 
the servicing and it had repaired three punctures, but it had told him that this wasnt covered 
by his agreement.
Mr M complained to Hitachi and it offered to credit his account by £250 as a goodwill gesture 
for the cost of the puncture repairs, but it said the additional charges remained payable.
A complaint was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt think it should be upheld. Mr M submitted further information which was put to 
Hitachi and it agreed to cover the cost it would have incurred for the puncture repairs 
bringing the total credit to £334.44. Mr M didnt agree and asked that the matter be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I noted the contract signed by Mr M in 2017 stated: Upon the expiry of the fixed period of 
hire or earlier termination under clause 6, you will no longer be in possession of the Vehicle 
with our consent and you must immediately return the Vehicle to such place as we may 
reasonably direct.
We asked Hitachi about its returns process and it has provided a copy of the letter sent to Mr 
M at the outset, but nothing issued as the end of the lease was approaching. It seems the 
onus was on Mr M to make contact and find out what to do about the car. That struck me as 
unusual, but Hitachi is entitled to operate its own processes.
It seemed clear Mr M was aware that the contract was coming to an end as he was talking to 
the broker about extending it. It advised him that he would hear from Hitachi and when 
nothing happened he made contact. I considered that was a reasonable approach for him to 
have taken. I recognised that the broker is independent from Hitachi, but it had an official 
capacity in the setting up of the lease and in potentially extending it. I could see that Mr M 
would have every reason to assume he was being given correct advice.
I explained that my role is to consider what is fair and reasonable and it seemed unfair that 
Mr M, having taken reasonable steps and without any reminders or information from Hitachi 
as to what was required at the end of the lease, had ended up with an unexpected bill.
I also noted that Hitachi has a seven-day grace period and Mr M made contact one day after 
the end of the agreement. It took a little longer for the car to be collected and I presumed 
some of this was due to the pandemic. I suspected that in ordinary times it may have been 
possible for the car to be collected within the seven-day grace period and for Mr M to have 
avoided any charge.
So, I considered, on balance that Hitachi, should waive the charge for the excess days. As 
for the matter of the puncture repairs I consider the revised sum offered by Hitachi to be fair. 
While I could see why Mr M assumed the dealer was approved and would have known to 
charge Hitachi rather than him he didnt contact Hitachi to clarify the position. This was made 
clear in the information made available to him when he entered into the agreement and I 
didnt consider the full cost need be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Hitachi said it respected the provisional decision. However, it pointed out that the email Mr 
M received from the broker had not been seen by it and this may have influenced its original 
decision. It said that Mr M had retained the car beyond the end of the agreement and he did 
have use of it despite the contract requiring him to return it. Hitachi asked that I give 
consideration to these points when making my final decision.
Mr M accepted the decision but made two points. He said the goodwill gesture in respect of 
the tyre wasnt a goodwill gesture, but something it was committed to under its no quibble 
tyre policy. He was also concerned that his credit rating may have been affected since a 
debt collection agency had been pursuing him for payment.
I appreciate the responses from both parties. Having considered these my view of the matter 
remains broadly the same. Mr M did have use of the car beyond the end of the agreement, 
but only for a matter of a few days. Given the lack of clarity around the returns process I 
dont consider it reasonable for him to pay for that period. I am satisfied he was actively 
seeking to return the car and took action to arrange for this to happen. Quite reasonably he 
relied on the brokers advice that he would hear from Hitachi and when that didnt happen he 
made contact.
On the matter of the tyres I dont consider it material whether the response by Hitachi was 
described as a goodwill gesture or not. The substance of the matter is that it made a fair 
payment to Mr M. 
I do agree that it would be inappropriate for any reference to this matter to be recorded on 
Mr Ms credit file. 
Putting things right
 Hitachi should, waive the charges it imposed and update Mr Ms credit file if necessary. My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to waive 
the additional charges for the delayed return of the car along with the goodwill offer of 
£334.44. It should also remove any references it may have made to this debt on Mr Ms 
credit history.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman