DRN-3084253
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Startline Motor Finance Limited registered a marker against him at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr O applied for a loan with Startline. Startline says that when he gave it his address history, 
he left off an address which had negative information linked to it. It registered a marker 
against him at CIFAS for application fraud, on the basis of an undisclosed address.
Mr O explained that, following a toxic relationship, hed been moving addresses frequently 
and may well have forgotten to mention that one. But it was just a mistake, not deliberate. 
He said the marker had led to his accounts being closed, and trouble getting a mortgage.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. Theyd asked 
Startline for evidence to support the CIFAS marker, but received little. They didnt think there 
was sufficient justification for the marker to remain. They said Startline should remove the 
marker. Though they found there were other factors which led to Mr Os accounts being 
closed and his trouble getting a mortgage, so they didnt recommend compensation.
Mr O accepted the investigators view, but Startline didnt agree. It felt it was reasonable to 
expect Mr O to remember his address history. It said the missing address had recent 
adverse information, so it could assume Mr O had left it out intentionally. It said Mr O had 
given inconsistent details about his employment history in later loan applications.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Startline 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. It needs to be able to show that it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or 
attempted, backed up by evidence which would support it being reported to the authorities.
It is not in dispute that Mr O failed to mention an address on his address history. That may 
have been enough for Startline to have had a suspicion or concern. But the question is 
whether Startline had sufficient grounds to conclude that this was an intentional attempt to 
commit fraud, or not.
Startline does not appear to have made a significant investigation into the matter at the time. 
For example, I cant see that it spoke to Mr O or asked for clarity before adding the marker  
and it really should have given him the opportunity to explain himself. Further, despite our 
investigators requests, it has not provided basic evidence such as its credit searches  so 
its not fully clear how significant this missing address even was.
This is a point of concern. It is difficult for me to see how Startline could be satisfied that 
Mr O intentionally tried to deceive it without really looking into the matter or trying to clarify 
the situation. I certainly dont agree with Startline that it can just assume Mr O had tried to 
commit fraud simply because the missing address had adverse information linked to it.
I also note Startlines comments regarding Mr Os later applications, and I can understand 
why it thought to mention this. But at the time Startline added this CIFAS marker, those other 
applications hadnt happened yet and were not relevant. And Mr Os employment situation is 
not particularly relevant to a CIFAS marker registered for an undisclosed address.
Mr Os testimony seems broadly plausible. Its reasonable that he could have made a 
mistake, not least if he was in a tough situation and was moving around. 
I am, of course, conscious that it is also a plausible possibility that Mr O intentionally tried to 
deceive Startline. But that alone is not a good enough basis on which to register a CIFAS 
marker. Startline needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern about the possibility 
of fraud. It needed to be able to substantially evidence that this was fraud, and not merely a 
mistake or misunderstanding. But because of its lack of investigation at the time, it does not 
appear to be able to do that. So I am not persuaded that Startline had sufficient grounds to 
apply this CIFAS marker, nor can I safely conclude that the marker is fair. Therefore, I direct 
Startline to remove the marker in dispute.
Lastly, Ive considered the issues Mr O has faced since the marker was added. He explained 
his accounts were closed and hes had trouble getting a mortgage  for which he has my 
sympathy. But Im afraid that, from what Ive seen, his accounts were closed due to multiple 
factors, rather than just the CIFAS marker. Similarly, his mortgage broker seems to have 
said it was other negative information that was preventing him from getting a mortgage. So 
I dont think I can fairly tell Startline to pay Mr O compensation for those issues.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint, and direct Startline Motor Finance 
Limited to remove the disputed marker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman