DRN-2830629
The complaint
Mr B complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI). His complaint relates to how UKI treated 
a claim he made under his motor insurance policy as a fault claim and wrongly reduced his 
No Claims Discount (NCD) at his next renewal. Mr B is also unhappy that UKI didnt tell him 
how they calculated a reduction in his premium following the reinstatement of his NCD and 
that they automatically renewed his policy and included an element of cover without his 
consent. Mr B also complains he didnt receive a response from UKI to letters he sent them.
References to UKI include its agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In 2019 Mr Bs vehicle was damaged in a hail storm while he was driving abroad. Mr B made 
a claim for the damage, which was accepted and settled by UKI. Mr Bs policy was then 
automatically renewed the following year, although Mr B says that he didnt consent to this 
automatic renewal. Mr B also noticed that the premium had increased significantly (to 
£296.80). When Mr B challenged the increase, UKI said that this was because his claim had 
been recorded as a fault claim, meaning that he was held partly to blame. Mr B wrote to UKI 
several times to question that decision, saying that he was not responsible for the hail storm 
and the damage it caused. Mr B also questioned the guaranteed hire car section of the 
policy, saying that he did not recall opting for this element of cover.
UKI subsequently replied to Mr B in a Final Response Letter. UKI apologised for not replying 
to each of Mr Bs letters and accepted that Mr Bs NCD should not have been affected 
because of the circumstances of the claim. Consequently he was due a refund of £117.60 on 
the premium charged at renewal. UKI said they couldnt provide a detailed breakdown of the 
reduction as their pricing structure was commercially sensitive. UKI also said that Mr B had 
agreed to continuous payment authority when renewing his policy in 2020, but that they had 
removed that authority in response to Mr Bs first letter. UKI noted that guaranteed hire car 
cover was a standard benefit under the policy and Mr B was not charged additionally for it.
Mr B was unhappy at UKIs response and complained to this service. The main elements of 
his complaint were his claim being treated as a fault claim and that while his NCD had been 
reinstated, UKI hadnt provided a detailed explanation of the premium reduction. He was 
also unhappy at having written to UKI on four occasions, but not receiving a response to the 
first three letters. He asked for compensation in recognition of how UKI had handled matters.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that UKI had handled Mr Bs 
claim in a fair and reasonable manner and that they had correctly recorded the claim as a 
fault claim on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) system used by insurers. She also 
thought that UKI had correctly calculated the refund of premium. She also concluded that 
UKI had acted fairly in respect of the continuous payment authority and the guaranteed hire 
car element of the policy.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In asking for a review Mr B restated his unhappiness at not receiving responses 
from UKI to his letters, and that it was only his fourth letter that prompted a response from 
UKI (admitting that he was due a refund on his premium).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mr B.
Mr Bs complaint covers several issues. While his complaint to this service didnt specifically 
mention some of the elements of his complaint to UKI, I have considered those elements.
 
Firstly, the issue of whether Mr B gave consent to UKI for continuous payment authority, so 
his policy would be automatically renewed. Ive seen the evidence from UKI that Mr B gave 
his consent prior to renewal of his policy in 2020, and Im persuaded that this was the case. 
But Ive also noted that UKI subsequently removed the authority in response to Mr Bs 
request. I think thats reasonable. 
  
Secondly, the guaranteed hire car element. Ive looked at the policy and can see this 
element is included as standard. Its also clear there isnt a separate (additional) charge for 
this element. Ive also noted UKIs point that there is no obligation to use this element. Again, 
I think thats reasonable.
 
Turning to Mr Bs complaint to this service, the first aspect is how they treated the claim for 
damage in the hail storm. UKI told us that, having settled the claim, they classified it as a 
fault claim on the basis that they were not able to recover any of the costs of settling the 
claim from a third party. I can understand that approach, albeit I can also appreciate the 
impression given to Mr B that it implies fault on him personally for the claim. Overall, I think 
UKIs approach is reasonable. But Ive also considered what this means in practice for Mr B.
UKI have said that they apply a fair claim commitment which extends to consumers who 
make a claim for damage to their vehicle and they are not to blame. What this means  and 
its also set out in the policy documents  is that such a claim, which would include storm 
damage, wouldnt affect a policyholders NCD. This distinguishes such claims from those 
where a policyholder is to blame (such as where they caused an accident). I think this is fair, 
as Mr B wouldnt suffer adversely from making such a claim.
But UKI didnt apply this approach when Mr Bs policy came up for renewal, meaning he was 
charged a significantly higher premium. UKI subsequently recognised their mistake and 
reinstated his NCD record and made a refund of premium. I think thats fair.
Mr B is also unhappy at not being provided with a detailed explanation of how the refund has 
been calculated. I want to reassure Mr B that while this information is, by its nature, 
commercially sensitive, I have looked at it carefully, including a detailed breakdown of how 
Mr Bs premium was calculated, both before and after the reinstatement of his NCD record. 
Ive noted that the refund includes the impact of both the reinstatement of Mr Bs NCD as 
well as treating the claim as no fault. I think thats reasonable and Ive concluded that UKI 
have acted fairly in calculating the refund due and the revised premium. Mr B also told us 
that in the previous year (2019) his premium was £260. So, the revised premium of £179.20 
for 2020 is a substantial reduction.
 
The second aspect of Mr Bs complaint is that UKI didnt reply to letters that he sent them, 
until the fourth letter he sent (by registered post). Ive looked at the case notes provided by 
UKI and their additional representations to our investigator. What this indicates is that Mr Bs 
earlier letters were received, but that UKI responded by sending system-generated letters 
that asked Mr B to contact them directly to discuss the issues he had raised. While these letters are system-generated and cant be reproduced as direct copies, Im satisfied that this 
is what happened. Ive also seen the text that these letters would have contained. Mr B also 
indicated to our investigator that he had received the letters, asking him to phone UKI, which 
he described as mass-produced. 
While Mr B may have expected personalised responses, I dont think UKIs approach was 
unreasonable, as their view was that discussion of the issues with the appropriate 
department would be a better way of seeking to address the issues raised by Mr B. Again, I 
think this is reasonable. So, Ive concluded that UKI havent acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman