DRN-3753047
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the service he received from Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) when making a claim on his tyre 
insurance warranty.
What happened
Mr S made a claim to Mapfre for two damaged tyres which were identified during an MOT. 
Mapfre declined the claim as Mr S reported it the day after his policy expired.
Mr S raised a complaint through our service which we referred to Mapfre as Mr S hadnt yet 
raised it directly. Mapfre issued a final response confirming that its decision had been 
correct. However, it checked Mr S MOT online, and was satisfied the loss occurred while 
Mr S car was still on cover. So, Mapfre decided to accept and settle the claim. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint. She said Mapfre should pay Mr S 
£100 compensation, in addition to settling the claim, in recognition of the length of time it 
took to get to the correct claim outcome and the impact this had on Mr S.
Mapfre didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mapfre says its decision to decline the claim was correct because the claim was notified 
after the policy expired. But it hasnt provided a copy of the policy terms and conditions or 
highlighted the specific term which supports that this is a requirement for a successful claim 
to be made.
In any event, given that the loss occurred while the policy was live, I dont consider that it 
was a reasonable decision to decline the claim on that basis. This is because I cant see that 
Mapfre would have been prejudiced in any way by the fact Mr S reported the loss the day 
after the policy expired (and the day after the loss was discovered). Mapfre seems to have 
accepted this point, as following receipt of the complaint it accepted and settled the claim. I 
think this was the right thing to do.
Mapfre says Mr S didnt substantiate his claim at the time of loss, such as by providing his 
MOT failure certificate. But Mr S says the garage  which completed the MOT and 
repaired/replaced the tyres  did provide the relevant evidence to Mapfre, on his behalf, at 
the time. 
Ive seen no supporting evidence to back up either position. But nor have I seen anything to 
suggest that Mapfre advised Mr S to supply this evidence in support of his claim. And 
considering Mapfre was later able to verify the claim by checking Mr S MOT online, Im not 
persuaded it was fair or reasonable to decline the claim on the basis Mr S allegedly didnt 
provide his MOT certificate.
Mapfre says it would be unfair to expect it to pay compensation because Mr S initially made 
his complaint to our service, rather than to Mapfre directly. So it says Mr S and our service 
are mainly responsible for the length of time it took for the claim to be accepted, and any 
delays on Mapfres part were minimal.
I dont accept Mapfres position here. I say this because I think Mapfres decision to decline 
the claim was wrong in the first place. So, I think the subsequent actions taken by Mr S stem 
from Mapfres initial error. I also dont think its reasonable to suggest that Mr S should have 
needed to complain (regardless of who he complained to first) in order to get a valid claim 
accepted when it should have been from the outset. 
Ultimately, I think it would have been unnecessarily frustrating and distressing for Mr S to 
have a valid claim declined, and to have to go through the inconvenience of making a 
complaint in order to get it settled. So, in addition to covering the claim, I think Mapfre should 
pay Mr S £100 to compensate him for the impact of Mapfres error.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Mr S complaint.
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. must pay Mr S 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman