DRN-3062552
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs M say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold that PPI policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M told us PPI was sold to them at the same time they took their mortgage out in 
a Lloyds branch in 1997. Lloyds said it couldnt tell us where the PPI was sold, although it 
confirmed the mortgage started in 1997. Although Mr and Mrs M had a joint mortgage, the 
PPI was set up to cover Mr M only  not Mrs M. 
Other than that, the background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which 
includes Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
As I said above, the parties dont necessarily agree as to how this PPI came to be sold. I 
havent seen anything that would cause me to doubt what Mr and Mrs M recall about the 
method of the PPI sale, so I have treated this as a face to face sale in a Lloyds branch.  
The first thing Ive considered is whether Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have 
to take out the PPI if they didnt want it. Ive seen from the reply Mr and Mrs M made directly 
to our adjudicator that they were adamant they didnt agree to the policy. I dont doubt that 
what Mr and Mrs M told us is what they honestly recall from the sale. But I also must bear in 
mind that its difficult to remember precisely what happened over 20 years ago, which is 
when this policy was sold. I can see the PPI premiums would have been documented on 
their mortgage statements, so if Mr and Mrs M didnt know they had a policy, I think theyd 
have queried this at the time. But the evidence doesnt suggest they did. I think its most 
likely they chose the PPI knowing they could refuse it if they wanted to. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats because PPI was sold in a branch and Mr and 
Mrs M could have reasonably thought Lloyds was recommending cover after taking account 
of their personal circumstances. So Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for them. To 
help me decide whether the policy was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
the cover. And Ive also thought about what we know about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances 
at the point of sale. 
As I said above, the policy was set up to cover Mr M only. If a claim had to be made, Mr and 
Mrs Ms mortgage repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months for each claim 
if Mr M became unwell or if he was made redundant. From what I can see, Mr M was eligible 
for the cover. I appreciate he had some sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to and for longer than his full sick pay would have lasted. With PPI, Mr and Mrs M could 
have used Mr Ms sick pay on their other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt 
been a difficult time for them if he was out of work.  
Mr M also told us about some cover he had from his union at the relevant time. But it doesnt 
look as though hed have been able to claim on that cover for 12 months. So it seems to me 
that this cover would have paid out after the end of the PPI policy. The two policies didnt 
conflict with one another. Ive also been told about an investment Mr M had through his 
employer. But in comparing that to the value of his likely salary, it doesnt look as though the 
investment would have lasted for as long as the PPI policy  if it was actually accessible to 
Mr M as and when he needed it. 
In his most recent correspondence to our adjudicator, I can see that Mr M told us that he 
could have relied on assistance from a family member if he ran into financial trouble. I dont 
at all doubt that it would have been the intention of that family member to assist Mr and Mrs 
M. But theres no guarantee that help would have been readily available as required. 
There was nothing about Mr Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for a claim to be made. Whilst I can see that Mr M appears to have had a 
musculoskeletal injury, the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest this injury was causing him 
any ongoing problems at the point of sale. I note that Mr M told our adjudicator that he 
returned to work before the PPI was sold and that the injury had resolved by the time the PPI 
was taken out. I must stress that their mortgage was secured on their home, which could 
have been placed at risk if Mr and Mrs M fell behind with their repayments. Overall, Im 
satisfied the cover was suitable for their needs. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. As Ive set out above, the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and 
Mrs M, nor too dissimilar to what its most likely they reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were given. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M said they were financially 
stretched and that they used their overdraft, but the PPI would have cost less than £20 per 
month at the point of sale and the evidence before me doesnt suggest that was unaffordable 
for them. Overall, I think the cover could have been useful if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have declined the cover had Lloyds given 
them more or better information about it. 
While the policy contained exclusions on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale, the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. So I think they would have still thought they had some 
good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman