DRN-2833959
The complaint
Mrs H is complaining about the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a claim on 
her home insurance.
I can only consider things that happened up to 19 June 2020 when Ageas finished looking 
into this complaint and sent its final response letter. I understand however that Mrs H has 
had ongoing issues and has made further complaints to Ageas after this date. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mrs H contacted Ageas to make a claim on her Home Protection 
insurance because of a suspected water leak in her hallway causing the flooring to lift. 
Mrs H held home emergency cover with another insurer so Ageas advised her to use this in 
the first instance. Mrs H used this to arrange for a plumber to attend but he said the water 
could be coming from the bathroom and he hadnt been authorised to find the leak as Mrs H 
didnt have trace and access insurance with her home emergency insurance.
Ageas then told Mrs H to call a plumber out herself to find and fix the leak. Mrs H had trace 
and access cover with her home insurance policy with Ageas. Ageas said it would not cover 
the cost of actually fixing the leak so Mrs H would need to pay for this herself. She would 
also need to pay the policy excess. 
However there were floods in the local area so it was very difficult to find a plumber and Mrs 
H couldnt get one to attend until January 2020. The plumber gave Mrs H a quote for the 
work but Ageas said it was too high, and gave her the phone number of company P to call 
out. P came out but said the problem might be with Mrs Hs boiler. A plumber and an 
engineer looked at the boiler, but thought the problem was a leak somewhere else. 
P came out again to try to find the leak but wanted the floor tested for asbestos first. 
Asbestos was found in the flooring and had to be removed. To do this, the bath, toilet and 
shower in the bathroom also had to be removed. Ageas coordinated the work by different 
contractors. Unfortunately when the contractors arrived to remove the asbestos, the 
bathroom had not been stripped. Then the bathroom was stripped but there was a delay in 
the contractors coming to remove the asbestos. The sanitary wear was supposed to have 
been removed and replaced on the same day, following the removal of the asbestos, but this 
did not happen.
The leak was found and mended, but there were then further problems. There was water 
damage to the kitchen floor. And issues with the bathroom as the shower was wetting the 
exposed concrete floor due to there being no seal between the shower doors and base after 
the shower was re-installed. Towards the end of May 2020 Mrs H asked if the bath, which 
was being stored in the spare bedroom, could be plumbed back in so that she wouldnt have 
to use the leaking shower. This was done.  
The property had to be dried out before the work could be completed, and this had not been 
finished by the time Ageas sent Mrs H the final response letter on 19 June 2020.
Mrs H was not happy and complained to Ageas. Ageas said it upheld her complaint because 
it took too long to appoint P to help detect the leak. Ageas apologised.
Mrs H was not happy with the response from Ageas and complained to this service. Our 
investigator said that a lot of the impact on Mrs H could have been avoided had Ageas acted 
sooner, as it admitted it failed to do. Ageas said Mrs H was offered alternative 
accommodation due to the property not being habitable, but she refused. Ageas also said it 
was not its responsibility to fix the leak so it could not be held fully responsible for the delays 
in fixing it. Ageas said it would accept a payment to Mrs H of £500 for her trouble and upset. 
The investigator was of the view that this was reasonable in all the circumstances. However 
Mrs H did not agree with this suggestion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
Mrs H says no alternative accommodation was offered to her and that damage to her 
property was ignored during the claim. She doesnt feel that £500 is enough to recognise the 
problems shes had. Mrs H says she has had to make a lot of phone calls and also pay for 
the pipe work and the excess on the claim. Ageas accepted the investigators view about 
resolving the complaint.
Mrs H is a vulnerable consumer with a number of health problems, and has had help with 
dealing with the claim and with this complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I will explain why. 
On 7 May 2021 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said  
Mrs H says she was without hot water for approximately 3 months in early 2020, and 
without heating in her bathroom from early 2020 to after the date I can consider in this 
complaint. Ageas says it was not aware of this. Mrs H says she told Ageas but its response 
was just to tell her to chase up P, who would then just say they were waiting for reports. 
Ageas said it did not know that Mrs H was without heating and hot water in the winter of 
2019/2020 and also that it offered her alternative accommodation. It is not entirely clear 
exactly when Mrs H was without heating and hot water, but I have seen an email from P to 
Ageas dated 21 February 2020 in which P told Ageas Mrs H had been without hot water 
since November. P said it was arranging for an asbestos report in order to progress the 
claim so it should have been clear to Ageas that the problem was not resolved. I have seen 
a report from P saying the pipework into the bathroom was capped on 23 March 2020 so 
Mrs H could have heating and hot water. So Ageas was aware for at least a month that Mrs 
H had no hot water, and did nothing to assist her by, for example, offering her alternative 
accommodation. 
Ageas says it did offer Mrs H alternative accommodation, but Ive seen Ageas customer 
contact notes and the first time this was offered was 1 April 2020 and was for the removal of 
the asbestos not the lack of hot water.
Ive seen an email from P to Ageas dated 23 April 2020 asking for someone to please 
contact Mrs H as she hadnt had confirmation of the visit to remove the asbestos and This is 
clearly distressing her. So Ageas was aware that the lack of effective co-ordination of the work in the bathroom was distressing Mrs H, but still the work to remove and replace the 
sanitary wear was not co-ordinated with the asbestos removal.
It took much longer than it should have done to find and fix the leak and deal with the 
subsequent problems. I can see that Mrs H had to make a lot of phone calls to try and sort 
out this claim, and was subjected to considerable disruption and stress, which she says has 
had a significant impact on her health.
Mrs H says she has been prescribed anti-depressants and experienced extremely high 
blood pressure partly as a result of this stress. She says she stopped answering the door to 
visitors because of people making comments about the on-going work.
Ageas says not all of the delays were its responsibility as it was not its responsibility to fix 
the leak. I accept this to an extent, but I can see that that some of the delays were caused by 
a lack of co-ordination of the different contractors and I think Ageas should take some 
responsibility for this. Ageas does accept that it took too long to appoint P to find the leak. 
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
I cant consider making a payment to Mrs H for the excess on her policy as this is something 
she agreed to when she took out the insurance, and she would have had to pay it regardless 
of how quickly the issues were resolved. Also I cant consider making a payment to Mrs H for 
the cost of mending the pipe work to fix the leak, as this is not something covered by her 
insurance policy. Unfortunately it seems as though the pipes under the floor were not 
installed correctly, which led to the leak.
However I intend to require Ageas Insurance Ltd to pay Mrs H the sum of £850 for the 
trouble and upset she experienced. This includes the distress and inconvenience of being 
without hot water, the extended problems with using the bathroom, and the stress and 
anxiety and effects on her health of trying to sort the claim out. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Ageas replied to my provisional decision and said it would be happy to pay Mrs H £850 for 
her trouble and upset.
Mrs H replied and said she noted that Ageas says it was her responsibility to fix the leak. 
She said she did try to get the leak fixed but Ageas said her quote from her plumber was too 
high. She was then told she must use P, and she didnt play any part in holding them up. Mrs 
H also said, with regard to the pipes not being installed correctly, that her home was built 
some time ago and would have been signed off by building inspectors at the time.
Whilst I acknowledge Mrs Hs comments, I believe I have addressed these points already 
and they do not change my final decision. 
My final decision
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs H the sum of £850 for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced. This includes the distress and inconvenience of being 
without hot water, the extended problems with using the bathroom, and the stress and 
anxiety and effects on her health of trying to sort the claim out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman