DRN-1855085
 
The complaint
Mr O on behalf of Mrs O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked her account without giving 
a reason or warning. Mr O is unhappy with the service he received from Lloyds. He would 
like compensation of £5,000 for the inconvenience and distress caused.
What happened
Mrs O had accounts with Lloyds, two joint accounts and a sole account. This complaint deals 
with her sole account. Im aware that Mr O and Mrs O also have two joint accounts with 
Lloyds. They have raised a complaint regarding those accounts. However, this decision will 
focus on Mrs Os sole account. Mr Os and Mrs Os other complaints will be addressed 
separately.
On 8 January 2018 Mr O went to the branch to reset his on-line banking details. That day he 
noticed that he wasnt able to use his card for purchases. After two days of trying to use his 
account he went back to the branch, but he was told they didnt have an explanation for this. 
Eventually after a couple of visits he was told Mrs Os account was blocked. 
 
During one visit the bank asked Mr O to provide ID and having done so he was told his 
accounts would be unblocked in 24 hours. However, the bank didnt remove the blocks. So, 
Mr O complained to Lloyds.
At the end of February Mr O was allowed to remove the funds from Mrs Os account and he 
closed the accounts with Lloyds on 28 February 2019.
Lloyds investigated the complaint and said that there had not been an error by the bank, and 
they had blocked the account to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. They 
didnt tell Mr O how long the block on his wifes account would last. However, they 
acknowledged they should have provided Mr O with better service. The bank said it 
shouldnt have told Mr O he would be able to access his account by visiting a branch with ID. 
And said its staff couldve explained things more clearly. They offered Mr O £75 for their 
failures in customer service. 
Mr O was unhappy with the response from Lloyds. He rejected the compensation offered.
Mr O complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into his complaint. He said Lloyds were meeting their 
regulatory obligations when they blocked Mrs Os account. He said Lloyds werent obliged to 
tell her why the accounts were blocked. He also said that Lloyds were entitled to close the 
accounts under the terms and conditions.
Mr O disagreed with the view. He said that he had closed the account not Lloyds. He also 
explained that not having access to any money made it very difficult to pay bills and their mortgage. He also said he understood that the maximum time an account could be blocked 
for was three days and Lloyds had blocked his wifes account for two months so she should 
get compensation. He also said that his wife had been operating the account properly and 
therefore Lloyds should tell him why they had blocked the account.
Our investigator responded to Mr O. He said that he agreed that Mrs O hadnt had access to 
her funds for two months and he apologised for assuming that it was Lloyds who had closed 
the accounts. He reiterated that Lloyds hadnt made any errors in blocking the account and 
they were meeting their regulatory obligations. Our investigator also said that Lloyds wasnt 
obliged to tell Mr O the reasons for the block on the account. He said that although blocking 
an account for two months was a long time, he didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong 
and so although he appreciated the inconvenience, he wasnt able to ask Lloyds to pay 
compensation.
As there was no agreement the complaint has come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mrs Os account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. Businesses are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. Lloyds has said that Mrs Os account was 
blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Mr O says he has no idea why Lloyds blocked his wifes account and it came as a complete 
shock to him. He says the blocks meant he couldnt pay bills, or his mortgage and his wife 
couldnt go to work because they had no money for fuel. 
Whilst I understand Mr Os strength of feeling, as Ive already explained businesses have a 
legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at the 
information Lloyds relied upon, Im satisfied that Lloyds were complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they blocked Mrs Os account. So, I cant say they have done 
anything wrong. The terms and conditions of Mrs Os account also permit Lloyds to block an 
account. Having considered those terms, Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line with them. 
I know Mr O wants Lloyds to explain the reason they blocked his wifes account. And I can 
understand Mr Os frustration that he hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But as the 
investigator has explained, Lloyds is under no obligation to provide this information to him, 
as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say Lloyds have done anything wrong by not 
providing this information to him. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require the bank to 
do so.
In summary, Ive already said that Lloyds has procedures they must follow to comply with 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Im satisfied that is what they were doing when they 
reviewed Mrs Os account. So, I dont think Lloyds have done anything wrong. I appreciate being without money was extremely stressful for Mr O and his family, but I am satisfied that 
Lloyds acted fairly when they blocked Mrs Os account and I will not be asking them to do 
anything else.
The investigator noted that the bank had acknowledged that they could have provided better 
service to Mr O, they offered Mr O £75 in recognition of that. The investigator agreed that 
Lloyds should not have told Mr O he would be able to access his account if he visited a 
branch with ID. And staff could have explained things more clearly. The investigator thought 
that the offer of £75 was fair in the circumstances. I share that assessment, and whilst I 
appreciate Mr O wont agree, I dont think it necessary for me to award any more. I simply 
leave it up to Mr O to decide whether, on reflection, he wishes to accept that offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything more to resolve 
Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31July 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman