DRN-2931588
The complaint
Ms L complains that ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED trading as Autonet Car 
Insurance (Autonet) unfairly cancelled her motor insurance policy and without enough  
notice.
What happened
Ms L bought a motor insurance policy to start on 11 June 2020. Autonet acted as an 
intermediary between her and an insurer. The policy was to cover Ms L and her husband 
(but not their son).
On 11 June 2020, Autonet wrote a letter to Ms L asking her about what it had found 
recorded on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. As she hadnt 
replied, on 15 June, Autonet wrote a seven-day notice to cancel the policy.
Ms L contacted Autonet on 18 June. She said the previous insurer had said it would remove 
a claim from CUE. But Autonet wrote a confirmation dated 22 June 2020 that it had 
cancelled the policy. It sent Ms L a partial refund of premium.
Ms L complained to Autonet. By a final response dated 22 July, Autonet turned down the 
complaint. Unhappy with that, Ms L brought her complaint to us in August 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Autonet had correctly applied the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ms L disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Autonet threatened to cancel the policy if she didnt get in touch within the allotted 
time. However, she did contact them, but they still cancelled the policy. 
This left her with no insurance for a number of days until she checked her bank 
account and discovered to her astonishment a partial refund. This caused an 
enormous amount of stress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy contained the following term about cancellation:
11. THIS MOTOR POLICY MAY ALSO BE CANCELLED:
i) by Us or Our authorised insurance advisors by giving You seven days notice in 
writing where there is a valid reason for doing so. We will send Our cancellation letter 
to Your last known address and will set out the reason for cancellation in Our letter. If 
We do cancel Your Motor Policy, You will be entitled to a refund of the unexpired 
portion of Your premium. Valid reasons for cancellation may include but are not 
limited to:
 Where You have failed to answer honestly and to the best of Your knowledge all 
questions asked in the preparation of Your quotation and contract.
 Where You fail to supply requested validation documentation (i.e. proof of No 
Claims Discount, proof of address, copy driving licence etc)
From the seven-day notice, Im satisfied that  as regards the cancellation - Autonet was 
acting on behalf of the insurer. I consider that it was the insurer rather than Autonet that was 
responsible for the cancellation.
I accept that the notice contained the following:
In order to prevent cancellation of the policy number above please call our customer 
services team on the telephone number above to discuss this issue within the next 
seven days.
And I accept that Ms L did contact Autonet within the seven days. She provided a police 
letter that showed that an incident on 16 November 2019 related to her son (who wasnt 
covered by the Autonet policy).
On the evening of 19 June 2020, Autonet told Ms L that the previous (2019) insurer wouldnt 
give it any information. Autonet asked Ms L to get the previous insurer to confirm that the 
claim was in her sons name rather than her husbands name. 
Unfortunately, Ms L left matters on the following basis:
I am not prepared to do anymore ringing around in regards to this policy.
Notwithstanding the police letter, I consider that there was a valid reason to cancel the policy 
and Autonet didnt treat Ms L unfairly by cancelling the policy. 
I dont consider that she had any reasonable grounds for believing that the policy would 
continue after the seven days expired. As I would expect, Autonet sent a letter to confirm 
cancellation of the policy.
Ive seen a letter from the previous insurer relating to two claims. The letter said that a claim 
in September 2019 shouldve been removed from CUE, and that a claim in November 2019 
related to Ms Ls son. 
But as the letter was dated after the cancellation, I cant say that Autonet shouldnt have 
gone ahead with the cancellation.
For the above reasons I dont hold Autonet responsible for treating Ms L unfairly in relation to 
the cancellation. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Autonet to pay Ms L 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED trading as Autonet to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021. Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman