DRN-3781679
The complaint
Mr M complains about the amount that hes been charged by Hyundai Capital UK Limited, 
trading as Hyundai Finance Contract Hire, for a missed service and damage to a car that he 
returned when his hire agreement ended.
What happened
I issues a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2022 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
A new car was supplied to Mr M under a hire agreement with Hyundai Finance in 
February 2019. The car was collected from him when the agreement ended in 
February 2022 and it was inspected by a third party on behalf of Hyundai Finance. 
The inspection report identified damage to three of the cars doors and that a service 
had been missed. Mr M was charged £250 for an incomplete service history and a 
total of £200 for the damage to the doors.
He complained to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association and Hyundai 
Capital about those charges. The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association said 
that the damage charges had been correctly raised by Hyundai Finance and Hyundai 
Finance said that the charges had been applied correctly. Mr M wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that the charge for the missing service of £250 had been applied correctly 
and that the damage to the car was outside fair wear and tear so the charge of £200 
had been applied correctly.
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in 
summary, that:
the agreement states a fee of £100 plus VAT for a failure to service the car so 
his liability for the missed service should be limited to £100 plus VAT;
the picture of the right rear door doesnt show any bare metal or penetration 
of the primer coat and theres only one scratch so the £100 charge for the 
damage to that door should be removed;
one dent is shown on the left rear door and its below the moulding lines so it 
should be considered normal wear and tear under the agreement and the 
charge removed; and
he accepts that there was damage to the left front door and hes already paid 
the charge for it.
I said in my provisional decision: I consider that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld in part 
for these reasons:
the car was collected from Mr M when the hire agreement ended in February 
2022 and it was inspected by a third party on behalf of Hyundai Finance - the 
inspection report identified damage to three of the cars doors and that a service 
had been missed;
Mr M accepts that a service had been missed but says that the charge for that 
should be £100 plus VAT;
the hire agreement says: The vehicle must be serviced in accordance with the 
manufacturers recommended service intervals, using genuine parts, at a 
franchised dealer. If you do not meet this obligation, you may be liable to pay a 
fee of £100 plus VAT for each service interval which was not undertaken by a 
franchised dealer;
Hyundai Finance says that the £100 plus VAT charge applies if the car isnt 
serviced by a franchised dealer and that the charge that its applied to Mr M is for 
the wear and tear guidelines not being adhered to for which the charge isnt 
specified so hes been charged £250;
its clear that the car hadnt been:  serviced in accordance with the 
manufacturers recommended service intervals, using genuine parts, at a 
franchised dealer   so Mr M hadnt met the obligation set out in the hire 
agreement and the service wasnt undertaken by a franchised dealer so I 
consider that the fee of £100 plus VAT thats set out in the agreement is 
applicable;
I accept that that may not have been what Hyundai Finance intended but it is its 
agreement and it could have specified the charge that would be applicable if the 
car had missed a service  but I consider that it was fair and reasonable for Mr M 
to understand that his liability for the missed service would be £100 plus VAT;
the inspection report includes photos of damage to three doors  Mr M accepts 
that there was damage to the left front door and he says that hes already paid 
the charge for that damage so I havent considered that charge any further;
I consider that the reflection board used in the photo of the left rear door clearly 
shows a dent through the swage line of the door  the hire agreement includes a 
return condition schedule which says: Multiple dents in any one panel and any 
dent greater than 10 millimetres in diameter on the bonnet, boot, roof, or above 
the body moulding lines on the sides of the vehicle is considered abnormal;
the dent in the left rear door is on the swage line and above the body moulding 
lines and appears to me to be more than 10mm in diameter so I consider that the 
damage is abnormal wear and tear and thats its fair and reasonable for 
Hyundai Finance to charge Mr M for that damage;
the inspection report describes the damage to the right rear door as scratched 
through paint and the photo clearly shows two dark areas on the door and I 
consider it to be more likely than not that those dark areas are where theres a 
scratch through the paint;
the return condition schedule says: Any scratch which penetrates the primer 
coat, dependent upon its position on the body, is considered abnormal wear and 
tear; and: Multiple scratches to the finish that cannot be removed by buffing 
constitute abnormal wear;
I consider that the damage to the right rear door is also abnormal wear and tear 
and thats its fair and reasonable for Hyundai Finance to charge Mr M for that 
damage;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the charges of £50 and £100 that Hyundai Finance has applied for the damage to the doors is 
inappropriate and I find that its fair and reasonable for it to charge those amounts 
to Mr M; and
I find that Hyundai Finance should reduce the amount that its charged Mr M for 
the missed service from £250 to £120 (which is £100 plus VAT) but Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.
Subject to any further representations from Mr M and Hyundai Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. Mr M says that its clear that the 
damage to the left rear door is below the moulding line and the picture doesnt show clearly 
the size of the dent. He also says that penetrating the primer coat would need to evidence 
bear metal and the dark areas on the right rear door dont show any bare metal, no 
scratches are evident and no information has been supplied to show that buffing was 
unsuccessful. Hyundai Finance has accepted my provisional decision and has agreed to 
reduce the £250 charge applied for the missing service to £120.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. The 
damage to the left rear door is below the swage line but above the body moulding lines on 
the side of the car. The swage line is a crease or curvature in the side of the cars body used 
to create visual distinction and the body mouldings are decorative and protective parts fitted 
to the cars body. In this case, the relevant body moulding line will be below the door. I 
consider it to be more likely than not that the dent shown in the photo of the left rear door 
and in which a reflection board is used is more than 10mm in diameter. 
I accept that no bare metal is showing where the right rear door has been damaged but the 
photo of that door shows two areas of damage to the paintwork where the coloured paint has 
been removed leaving two dark areas. I dont consider that the damage would be removed 
by buffing or that the damage would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear. I 
consider that the damage is abnormal wear in accordance with the return condition 
schedule.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the charges of £50 and £100 
that Hyundai Finance has applied for the damage to those doors is inappropriate and I find 
that its fair and reasonable for it to charge those amounts to Mr M. Hyundai Finance has 
agreed to reduce to reduce the £250 charge applied for the missing service to £120.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Hyundai Finance to 
reduce the amount that its charged Mr M for the missed service from £250 to £120  and it 
has agreed to do so. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it 
to reduce the amount that its charged Mr M for the damage to the doors or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and I order Hyundai Capital UK Limited, 
trading as Hyundai Finance Contract Hire, to reduce the amount that its charged Mr M for 
the missed service from £250 to £120.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman