DRN-3451767
The complaint
Mr C complains that ReAssure Limited surrendered his investment bond in error.
What happened
Mr C had an investment bond with ReAssure. On 7 July 2021, his financial adviser contacted 
ReAssure to make a withdrawal from the bond. Mr C wanted to take the maximum tax-free 
amount for the year. The adviser included calculations to make it clear what Mr C wanted. A 
week later, Mr C called ReAssure to check the forms had been received to make the 
withdrawal. ReAssure confirmed that it had the instructions. On 16 July 2021, Mr C received 
a letter saying a chargeable event had taken place for tax purposes. He then discovered that 
ReAssure had surrendered his bond in error.
ReAssure apologised for its error and sent Mr C £250 compensation. It offered to reinstate 
his bond if he sent the money back and put things right with HM Revenue and Customs 
(HMRC). Mr C responded to ReAssure to say that it hadnt addressed all the issues he 
raised. He said the compensation was too low to reflect the stress this issue has caused 
him. He also explained that he was running up costs with his financial adviser having to deal 
with the problem created by ReAssure. He said hes lost his income of £500 per month that 
he was taking. Mr C, and his financial adviser, continued to communicate with ReAssure to 
attempt to get clarity about Mr Cs tax position as well as trying to sort out a way forward.
Mr C complained to the Financial Ombudsman as he had lost faith in ReAssure and wasnt 
sure whether to reinvest his money with it due to the scale of the error. Mr Cs adviser 
continued to contact ReAssure to arrange a call back to discuss a way forward but has 
explained that he never received a response.
Our Investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She said that ReAssure had acted 
unreasonably and this had caused Mr C a great amount of distress given his age and 
medical condition. She recommended ReAssure pay Mr C a total of £500 compensation. 
She also felt ReAssure should pay for Mr Cs adviser fees following the surrender as well as 
any lost interest.
ReAssure disagreed with our investigator. It said it felt the £250 compensation it already paid 
is reasonable and it has provided an option for Mr C to reinvest his funds. It didnt think it 
was reasonable for it to pay any of Mr Cs advisers fees and it disagreed that interest should 
be awarded.
Mr C feels there may be a potential tax charge due to the bond surrender and says hes lost 
his personal allowance and income from the bond.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 April 2022  an extract is provided below and forms 
part of this decision. In this I explained what I thought ReAssure needed to do to put things 
right. In summary I said that it should pay an additional £500 compensation  bringing the 
total compensation for distress and inconvenience to £750. I also said ReAssure should pay 
£450 to Mr C towards his advisers fees to cover the costs of its error. I did, however, say 
that I thought ReAssure had offered to put Mr C back into the position hed have been in by 
reinstating the bond, so I didnt think hed suffered a financial loss in terms of tax and his 
investment bond.
Both ReAssure and Mr C responded to my provisional decision. ReAssure felt that an 
additional £500 compensation was excessive as it had offered to put Mr C back in the 
position hed have been in had it not made an error. It said it felt an additional £250 (bringing 
the total compensation for distress and inconvenience to £500) would be more reasonable in 
the circumstances. ReAssure also asked for a copy of Mr Cs advisers invoice but didnt 
provide any additional comments after this was sent. 
Mr C didnt feel that enough consideration had been given to his attempts to settle the issue 
early on. He feels that the compensation in my provisional decisions isnt enough. He also 
pointed out that the original cheque he received from ReAssure for £250 hasnt been cashed 
in so would need to be reissued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has submitted additional evidence in this complaint. Ive taken on board the 
comments made by both parties but my decision remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision  the relevant extract from this is set out below and forms part of this 
decision.
I would, however, like to directly address the comments that Mr C and ReAssure have made.
Firstly I do understand Mr Cs disappointment. Hes attempted to sort the situation out and, 
as I mentioned in my provisional decision, ReAssure hasnt been helpful in this regard. 
However, Im mindful that there was an opportunity to put things right here in terms of 
reinstating Mr Cs bond, and Ive told ReAssure to pay Mr C the costs that hed incur from his 
financial adviser that I think are directly attributable to the mistake it made. Ive noted that he 
hasnt cashed in his cheque for the initial compensation offered so Id expect that ReAssure 
addresses this by ensuring Mr C receives the full compensation.
ReAssure believes total compensation of £750 is excessive in the circumstances, but Ive 
seen that it appears to reference what it would normally do. When looking at compensation 
for distress and inconvenience, I must consider the impact the error has had on the specific 
complainant. Mr C is elderly and suffering from a very serious illness  something that 
ReAssure is aware of. After it made the error, Mr C and his adviser made multiple attempts 
to sort the issue out and, understandably, had questions.  I cant see ReAssure made an 
adequate attempt to engage with Mr C. So, whilst I think it has offered to put Mr C back in 
the position by reinstating his bond, this doesnt make the experience any less distressing for 
him. Mr C has had the distress of finding out his whole bond had been surrendered  
disinvesting it and removing it from its tax protection. And hes had continual distress at the 
failure of ReAssure to engage in multiple attempts to understand the consequences and put 
things right. So, my decision on compensation remains unchanged. ReAssure must pay 
Mr C a total of £750 compensation  which is £500 more than it originally offered. 
Mr C says he hasnt cashed the initial cheque, and its been more than six months so its 
likely the entire amount will need to be issued by ReAssure. I will leave it to ReAssure to 
check the status of the original payment and ensure Mr C gets the compensation that this 
decision has determined.
Extract from provisional decisionSurrender of the bond
Its not disputed that ReAssure made an error in surrendering Mr Cs bond. The instructions 
from Mr Cs adviser were very clear and I cant see any reason for the bond to have been 
surrendered. My role here, is to determine what ReAssure needs to do to put things right.  
I can see that ReAssure has offered to reinstate Mr Cs investment bond and tell HMRC of 
the error to ensure he doesnt lose out. This is what Id expect it to do. However, Mr C has 
lost faith in ReAssure due to its error  and subsequent lack of communication which Ill 
address below  and I can understand why he may not want to reinvest. Mr C is elderly and 
has a very serious illness. Hes relied on his financial adviser to try and get answers to 
questions from ReAssure but ReAssure hasnt communicated well. Ive addressed where I 
think ReAssure couldve done better below. 
Financial loss
Mr C has explained that he may be liable to a tax charge due to this error. Hes also said 
hes lost income from the bond. Ive taken a closer look at this to determine whether 
ReAssure is responsible for any potential tax or income loss.
I understand Mr C wanted to take a tax-free amount from his bond, and hes done so on 
many occasions before. He refers to taking a £500 income from the bond, but that is in the 
form of withdrawals  rather than the bond generating that level of income. As ReAssure has 
offered to reinstate the bond, I cant see that it is responsible for paying any tax charge that 
now may come up. I can appreciate that Mr C no longer wishes to have his money in his 
bond with ReAssure, but I can see ReAssure has offered to put things right in the way Id 
expect here. Ill address the communication attempts below, but I cant agree that ReAssure 
should pay Mr Cs tax charge that may come out of surrendering his bond, as it has offered 
to reinstate it which would solve the issue.
The income Mr C was taking was withdrawals from his bond. He now has the full value of 
the bond so I cant agree hes lost out on his income. And as Ive said above, ReAssure has 
offered to reinstate the bond to put him back in the position hed have been in had it not 
been surrendered and this is fair and reasonable.
Communication
Aside from the error ReAssure made in surrendering the bond, I can see that it hasnt 
communicated effectively with Mr C. There were multiple times that Mr C and his adviser 
asked ReAssure to arrange a phone call to discuss the next steps without any call being 
received. I think the lack of returned calls really added to the stress of the situation ReAssure 
had caused by surrendering Mr Cs bond.
Mr C is an elderly man suffering from a very serious illness. ReAssure was aware that his 
frequent withdrawal instructions came from his financial adviser. So, its disappointing that it 
didnt, when given the multiple opportunities, liaise with Mr C or his adviser when they had 
asked. Its clear from ReAssures call notes that there were a lot of attempts by Mr C and his 
adviser to sort the issue out but I cant see they were called back, or given a dedicated 
person to speak to as they had requested. ReAssure were aware of Mr Cs circumstances, 
so I think it wouldve been aware of the stress this situation was continuing to cause him.
I can see that ReAssure has paid Mr C £250 for the distress and inconvenience its error 
caused but I dont think this is enough. The initial shock of having a letter to say his whole 
bond had been surrendered wouldve been large. But the continuing issues in 
communication when trying to sort it out, as well as his concerns over the tax implications 
that werent answered promptly by ReAssure, has caused Mr C ongoing distress at a time of his life when hes already suffering. So, I intend to direct ReAssure to pay an additional £500 
compensation. It couldve dealt with things far better. I can see Mr C was willing to reinstate 
his bond a number of times but ReAssures communication continued to put doubt into his 
mind. So, it hasnt helped him with the difficult situation that its error caused in the first place.
Adviser costs
Mr C complained throughout that he was building up costs through his adviser trying to sort 
the issues out. I think its reasonable that Mr C used an adviser to communicate with 
ReAssure, it appears he had been doing this previously and he wasnt in good health. I 
asked Mr C to provide the fees hes been charged and his adviser has sent me a copy of his 
invoice as well as a breakdown of the time spent dealing with the issue. There are things 
that I think Mr C wouldve been charged for regardless, so I wont be asking ReAssure to pay 
the full invoice. And Ive noticed Mr Cs adviser has charged for emails he was copied into by 
Mr C  but this was Mr Cs decision and I dont think it would be fair for ReAssure to pay for 
this. But I think its clear that Mr C has been charged for things he wouldnt otherwise have 
been charged for but for ReAssures error  and the direct time that his adviser spent trying 
to communicate with ReAssure is something that wouldnt have been needed had ReAssure 
not made this error.
The invoice Mr Cs adviser has sent comes to £819 inclusive of VAT. Having looked at the 
initial meetings prior to the issue happening, and the times where hes been copied in to 
emails, and the time hes chosen to communicate with this service including providing the 
invoice Ive deducted a number of the minutes listed. Im happy to provide a copy of this to 
ReAssure but having considered it all, I think it would be fair for ReAssure to pay £450 
towards this invoice. This would cover the number of times Mr Cs adviser tried to 
communicate with ReAssure and help Mr C understand what he could do to resolve the 
issue of the surrendered bond.
To summarise, I think ReAssure needs to do more to put things right for Mr C. I do 
acknowledge that it has offered to reinstate the bond and this would put Mr C back in the 
position hed have been in had the error not occurred. It is up to Mr C to decide if he now 
wants to do that. But during the time hes tried to get the issue resolved, ReAssure hasnt 
communicated well which has caused Mr C significant distress and inconvenience, as well 
as incurring costs with his financial adviser.
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited must do the following:
- Pay Mr C a total of £750 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused (which 
includes the initial £250 it offered)
- Pay Mr C £450 towards the invoice from his adviser to cover the costs hes incurred 
due to its error and lack of communication
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited must follow the 
instructions Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Charlotte WilsonOmbudsman