DRN-2339537
The complaint
 H and H, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc delayed in investigating the 
whereabouts of a missing cheque and in carrying out its compliance checks and provided 
poor customer service.
 
What happened
 On 25 February 2020 H and H arranged for a payment for £115,000 to be made the 
companys Santander business account. This was for a property transaction.
On 26 February, the company contacted Santander to check if the £115,000 had arrived but 
Santander said it had no record of this payment. It suggested H and H should go back to the 
sending bank as it thought it had made a mistake with the account details. H and H went 
back to the sending bank and obtained proof that the payment had been made correctly. The 
company complains that the information provided by Santander at this time was incorrect as 
the cheque had already been received but was awaiting clearance. It says, as a result, it 
wasted several hours in going back to the sending bank for information that was 
unnecessary.
The following day H and H contacted Santander again to see if the cheque had been 
received and to explain the urgency of the transaction and the consequences of any delay. 
Santander carried out an internal investigation that found that this cheque had been flagged 
up for further compliance checks which would need to be completed before it could be 
released to the companys account. The payment was credited to H and Hs account on 28 
February. 
H and H say that Santander received the cheque on 25 February but didnt take any action 
with regard to the compliance checks until 27 February. Its unhappy with the delay and feels 
Santander only took action when prompted by its calls and after it had escalated this to a 
manager. H and H is also unhappy that Santander added to the delay by contacting the 
company to ask for information that was already on the account. H and H say Santanders 
compliance process is slow and disjointed. 
Santander accepted that thered been some mistakes in the way it handled these calls from 
H and H, for which it offered H £75 compensation. However, it said carrying out compliance 
was part of its regulatory requirements so it couldnt agree this was a mistake.
Our investigator upheld H and Hs complaint in part. It was clear Santander had given 
incorrect information in some of the calls from H and H on 26 and 27 February. This was 
poor service but he felt the compensation already offered by Santander was reasonable so 
he wouldnt be asking it to do anything more. He acknowledged that H and H felt the 
investigation and compliance checks had taken too long but there was nothing to show that 
Santander wouldnt have started investigating this payment even without H and Hs calls. 
And while he understood the companys frustration at the time taken to carry out the 
compliance checks, such checks were part of the banks regulatory requirements so he 
couldnt say it had done anything wrong or tell it to change its processes. And because the 
property purchase had gone ahead and completed, thered been no actual financial loss so 
he couldnt ask Santander to pay anything towards this.
H and H disagreed and said if it hadnt been able to agree an extension to the completion 
deadline on the property it was buying, it would have lost the property along with the deposit 
it had already paid. It didnt feel the compensation took into account the stress this had 
caused. In addition, it had been given misleading information by two or more members of 
Santanders staff about his payment and the explanations it had been given for this were 
incorrect. This suggested this was a policy approach by the bank not just a mistake. 
H and H also said that the problem had only been resolved because of the companys 
experience in CHAPs payments and without that it didnt feel it would have been resolved 
when it was. The company felt that, as CHAPS payments should be credited on the day, 
Santander should have begun its investigation into why this hadnt happened straight away 
and not waited until 27 February. It was still not satisfied that the investigation would have 
begun when it did without it chasing it up. It considered £500 would be reasonable for what 
had happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Where the information on any particular point is missing, unclear or contradictory Ive made 
my decision on the balance of probabilities or in other words whats more likely than not to 
have happened taking into account the circumstances of the case.
The facts of this matter are relatively straightforward but its the impact of what happened 
that has led to the complaint being referred to me. Having reviewed the information available 
I consider that the compensation should be increased to £150 as Ill now explain. I should 
add that both Santander and H and H have accepted my recommendation on this so I dont 
consider its necessary to issue a provisional decision before making a final decision.The complaint relates to a payment of £115,000 made by H and H to its Santander business 
account. The money was to be used to complete on a property purchase and the deadline 
for this payment was 28 February. If it wasnt paid by then, there was a very real possibility 
that the sale might fall through and that H and H would lose both the purchase and the 
deposit already paid. I can understand why the company was so concerned at any delay in 
receiving the payment.
Santanders explained that the payment was identified as needing further compliance checks 
before it could be released to H and Hs account. These checks are part of the banks 
security measures to protect both the customer and the bank so I cant tell Santander to 
change them. I can however look at the way Santander dealt with them- and the payment in 
general- to see if that was reasonable.
Santanders agreed that when H and H first contacted it on 26 February it made a number of 
assumptions that were incorrect. This included not recognising the nature of the payment 
and then suggesting that the sending bank had made a mistake with the details used. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that this was other than a misunderstanding by the bank 
but, as a result, one of the directors of H and H wasted several hours in contacting the 
sending bank and obtaining information that was unnecessary and irrelevant. It seems the 
real situation would have been clear if more enquiries had been made so I can understand 
the companys frustration at the way this was dealt with. Ive taken that into account in 
deciding on the compensation below
I know H and H feel that Santander only began to investigate its concerns on 27 February 
because it had escalated the complaint. However, Santander, like all banks, will have 
internal time targets for handling such issues as compliance checks. I cant comment on the 
specific time scales that apply as thats commercially sensitive information but I havent seen 
anything to suggest Santander wouldnt have carried them out in this case within a 
reasonable time even without the calls from H and H. Its fair to say that when H and H 
spoke to a manager on 27 February, however, the urgency of the situation became clear 
however and Santander then ensured it completed the checks as quickly as possible. I think 
thats reasonable and what Id have expected it to have done in the circumstances.
Ive seen that H and H feel that some of the information Santander was asking for as part of 
these checks was already available and that it simply wasted time by asking for it again. But 
I think it was reasonable for Santander to want to make sure that the information it was 
holding was still relevant and up to date. That part of the checks it has to make so I cant 
reasonably criticise Santander for this. And I havent seen anything to show that the system 
overall was inadequate.
Putting things right
 For the reasons set out above I agree with H and H that the service provided by Santander 
in the initial calls was poor. It resulted in H and H spending a significant amount of time in 
following up information that wasnt relevant or required. This happened on more than one 
occasion so I can understand the companys frustration, both at the incorrect information and 
the time it wasted. I also think that if H and H had known the delay was not because the 
money hadnt arrived but because it hadnt yet cleared, it would have felt less anxious. For 
these reasons I dont consider that £75 is sufficient for the impact of Santanders mistakes 
and Ive decided that £150 would be more appropriate.
Both Santander and H and H have accepted this but I think its appropriate to issue a final 
decision to avoid any confusion.My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold H and Hs complaint in part and direct Santander UK Plc to 
pay H and H £150 compensation for the impact of its poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H and H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman