DRN-4389398
The complaint
Mr H complains that Marsh Finance Ltd, who Ill call Marsh Finance, were unreasonable to 
demand payment of the balance on his account, after the car he was financing was reported 
stolen.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
When Mr H agreed to voluntarily surrender the car in October 2020 the car was to be sold at 
auction and any funds realised for the car were to be deducted from the balance Mr H owed 
on his account.
While I understand it is Mr Hs assertion that the car was taken by the auctioneers who 
Marsh Finance appointed in December 2020, I dont think that is likely to have been the 
case. I say that because:
The auctioneers have confirmed they couldnt trace the car and didnt recover it.
There seems little point in the auctioneers not collecting the car as I think its 
reasonable to suggest they wouldnt receive full payment for their services until it was 
collected and sold.
The police were unable to locate the missing vehicle and I think its likely they would 
have investigated matters with the auctioneer before reaching that conclusion.
Mr H hasnt been able to provide the CCTV footage of the car being taken away that 
he said he had. It wasnt provided to Marsh in January 2021 when the car was 
reported stolen either. I think its likely he would have ensured that coverage was 
preserved given how important it was in supporting his claim.
Theres no record of the car and I think that supports the view it was stolen.
On that basis I dont think Marsh Finance have been unreasonable to demand full payment 
of the balance on the agreement. It was Mr Hs responsibility under the terms of the 
agreement to insure the car and, in the absence of such insurance, the balance will need to 
be paid by him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman