Complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard acted irresponsibly 
when it increased her credit card limits and failed to heed warning signs. She also complains 
that it didnt properly assess her circumstances or engage with her when she was in financial 
difficulties.
Background
Mrs P, who is represented by her father Mr P, had a credit card account with Barclaycard. 
Mrs P says that in or around 2013 her husband took control of the card and changed the 
direct debit payments so that they were collected from his own account. She says he was 
abusive towards her and used the card for his own personal spending. She says that during 
this period Barclaycard continuously increased the credit limit on the card. 
In February 2017, her husband, who she subsequently divorced, handed the card back to 
her. It was then she realised there was a significant debt outstanding on the card. She 
contacted Barclaycard in February 2017 and explained her personal and financial difficulties. 
Barclaycard agreed to put the account on hold and subsequently refunded all interest 
charged since February 2017. It also accepted a payment of £6,000 in full and final 
settlement of the account (the debt outstanding was over £11,000 at that time). Barclaycard 
also marked Mrs Ps credit file with a partial settlement marker.
Mrs P complained to Barclaycard about what had happened (Ill refer to this as the 2017 
complaint). She said that it had acted irresponsibly when it had repeatedly increased the 
credit limit on the card. She said that Barclaycard hadnt properly assessed her 
circumstances. If it had done this, she says that it wouldve known that shed stopped 
working in 2014. She says there were warnings which should have alerted Barclaycard to 
what was happening. She says the warnings included the changed spending pattern on the 
card and the fact that the person paying the monthly direct debit was no longer the 
cardholder.
Barclaycard looked into Mrs Ps concerns. It said it was satisfied that it acted responsibly 
when it made its decisions to increase the credit limit. It said the minimum payments on the 
card had always been paid, the card limit had never been exceeded and Mrs P hadnt 
contacted it to say she was in financial difficulties. It also said it had reviewed the spending 
pattern on the card and it was satisfied that the card had been used for general spending. It 
said that, prior to February 2017, it had no reason to believe Mrs P had any personal or 
financial difficulties. Barclaycard issued its final response on 2 November 2017.
The account was closed after the partial settlement of £6000 was paid in January 2018.
In February 2019 Barclaycard again wrote to Mrs P. The letter said:
DRN-1991304Following a recent review of our operating procedures we have identified that for 
customers who had fallen behind on their payments, we did not always meet our 
expected standards for assessing customers circumstances or engaging with them.
As a consequence we may not have offered you the support most appropriate to your 
financial situation. In recognition of the potential distress and inconvenience you may 
have suffered, as a consequence of us not meeting our expected standards, we are 
making a payment to you of £75.00 (the Inconvenience Payment). This will be paid 
directly to you in cash.
We will not look further into your case and provide further deserved redress unless 
you contact us regarding any other circumstances or losses in relation to this.
Mrs P contacted Barclaycard (Ill refer to this as the 2019 complaint). She said that shed 
suffered significant losses and distress as a result of how shed been treated by Barclaycard.
She said that this was precisely the issue that shed raised with Barclaycard in 2017. At that 
time theyd denied any failures. But, she said that they were now admitting that theyd made 
failures and so they should provide further compensation.
Barclaycard investigated the complaint. It said it had no indication, prior to February 2017 
that Mrs P had any personal or financial difficulties. It also said she hadnt reported to it that 
her card was being used by her husband. It said after shed told it about her difficulties it had 
put the account on hold and any charges or interest after that date had been refunded. It 
also said it had accepted £6000 as partial settlement of the debt and had closed the 
account. Barclaycard said it was satisfied that it had properly reviewed her circumstances at 
the time and no further compensation would be paid.
Mrs P didnt agree and so the complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator said 
that there was no evidence of any missed payments on the card or the limit being exceeded 
prior to February 2017. She also said that from what she could see the card had been used 
for everyday spending and there was nothing that would have alerted Barclaycard to the 
circumstances Mrs P was experiencing. Because Mrs P hadnt declined any of the increases 
and hadnt contacted Barclaycard prior to February 2017 our investigator thought that it had 
acted fairly and reasonably. So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs P didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so my present 
intention is also not to uphold this complaint. But, because Ive reached my decision 
for different reasons to our investigator Ive decided to set out my reasoning first to 
allow the parties to provide any further comments.
There are a number of issues that have been raised. So, Ill deal with each one 
separately.
The 2017 complaint
Ive looked at the issues that Mrs P raised in the 2017 complaint. At that time shed 
complained that Barclaycard had acted irresponsibly when it had progressively increased the credit limit on her card. Shed also included reference to the warning 
signs that she said Barclaycard should have spotted. Barclaycard considered these 
points and issued its final response letter on 2 November 2017.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isn't permitted to consider every complaint that's 
brought to it. We're governed by the DISP rules which can be found in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook (available online).
One of those rules, DISP 2.8.2, says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
..more than six months after the date on which the respondent
sent the complainant its final response.
Unless:
in the view of the Ombudsman the failure to comply with the time limits was as 
a result of exceptional circumstances or
the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the 
complaint
Barclaycard issued its final response letter on 2 November 2017. Ive looked at that 
letter and it includes a clear statement that if Mrs P disagreed with what had been 
decided she could bring her complaint to this service but that she must do so within 6 
months. If she didnt do that the letter says that Barclaycard wouldnt consent to this 
service looking into the complaint.
In her complaint to this service Mrs P has acknowledged that the issues shes raised 
about Barclaycards failure to properly assess customer circumstances when 
measuring ability to service credit card debt are precisely the same as those that 
shed raised in the 2017 complaint.
Although Barclaycard hasnt raised an objection to this service considering the issues 
in its final response letter dated 2 November 2017, the rules which apply require it to 
provide its consent.
So, unless Barclaycard provides its consent, I wont be able to look into any issues 
that are materially the same as those that were raised in the 2017 complaint.
The 2019 complaint
The 2019 complaint was triggered by the letter which Barclaycard sent in February 
2019. In that letter Barclaycard admitted that it hadnt always met its own standards for 
assessing customer circumstances or engaging with them. Its important to note that 
the letter specifically refers to this failure being related to customers whod fallen 
behind on their payments.
Mrs P didnt fall behind on her payments until after February 2017 which was when 
she informed Barclaycard about her personal and financial difficulties. Mrs Ps 
treatment by Barclaycard after February 2017 didnt form part of the 2017 complaint. 
So, Im satisfied that this service can look into that aspect of the 2019 complaint.When a customer has financial difficulties wed expect Barclaycard to treat them 
positively and sympathetically. Ive looked at the actions that Barclaycard took in Mrs 
Ps case after she informed it about her financial difficulties. It agreed to put an 
immediate hold on the account in February 2017 for 30 days and repeated this in 
September and October 2017. It also refunded all interest and charges that were 
applied to the account for the period from February 2017 until the date that the 
account was settled.
It is the case that Mrs P was expected to make payments during this period but all of 
the payments were applied towards reducing the outstanding debt. So, Im satisfied 
that the outstanding debt didnt increase after Mrs P advised Barclaycard of her 
difficulties. I think that was fair and reasonable.
This then left the matter of the outstanding debt. As Ive stated above Barclaycard had 
considered the complaint Mrs P had raised about how that debt had come about. It 
had decided that the debt was still due and owing. It had issued its final response 
letter in November 2017 and Mrs P didnt refer that complaint to our service within the 
six month time limit.
It was after the final response letter had been issued that negotiations took place 
between Mrs Ps representative and Barclaycard about how much the settlement 
figure should be. Barclaycard accepted a significant reduction on the outstanding 
balance which Mrs Ps representative agreed to pay. So, I dont think, given the 
circumstances here that Barclaycard acted unfairly or unreasonably after Mrs P told it 
about her financial difficulties.
Having considered everything, I dont intend to uphold the 2019 complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is:
 I cannot look into the 2017 complaint unless Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard provides its consent; and
 I do not intend to uphold the 2019 complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Barclaycard has accepted my provisional decision. Its also said that it doesnt consent to our 
service considering the matters that were dealt with in its final response letter dated 2 
November 2017.
Mrs P has made several comments about my provisional decision which Ill summarise 
below:
Mrs P realised the level of the indebtedness on the card in February 2017. This was 
when her former husband handed back the credit card. The divorce took place 
subsequent to this.
A key issue is that Barclaycard failed in its duty of care to Mrs P. She says she was a 
vulnerable customer. Barclaycard shouldnt have increased the credit limit without 
checking affordability. It wasnt reasonable for Barclaycard to increase the credit 
limits just because minimum payments were being made.
When the monthly payments started to be paid by someone who was not the 
cardholder, and not responsible for payment of the debt, Barclaycard shouldve 
treated this as a warning.When the debt kept on escalating after this, the account shouldve been flagged.
Because of the very difficult circumstances she found herself in she wasnt in a 
position to alert Barclaycard to the situation until after her former husband had left the 
house.
Mrs P is disappointed that Barclaycard may not consent to these matters being 
looked into. She says that the 2019 letter from Barclaycard was an admission that it 
hadnt assessed customer circumstances. It was this letter which triggered what was 
described in the provisional decision as the 2019 complaint. So, Mrs P thinks 
Barclaycard should permit our service to rule on the 2017 complaint issues and the 
financial difficulties its mismanagement caused.
So I now need to reach a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
In her complaint to this service Mrs P has acknowledged that the issues shes raised 
about Barclaycards failure to properly assess customer circumstances when 
measuring ability to service credit card debt are precisely the same as those that 
shed raised in the 2017 complaint.
Having thought about each of the points Mrs P has raised in response to my provisional 
decision, my view remains the same. Barclaycard responded to all of the issues shes 
raised, including issues about the change of the person making the payments and the 
successive increases to the credit limit. Its letter of 2 November 2017 was a final response 
letter.
So, Im satisfied, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision that our service cannot 
consider any matters which are materially the same as those dealt with in the final response 
letter dated 2 November 2017. This is because her complaint wasnt brought to our service 
within six months of the date of that final response letter. And, Barclaycard hasnt provided 
its consent. 
Ive also thought again about whether Barclaycards letter in February 2019 changed the 
position and whether that letter was an acknowledgement that it hadnt properly dealt with 
Mrs P in the period prior to February 2017. But, having done so, I dont think that it was such 
an acknowledgement. The 2019 letter was about how Barclaycard dealt with customers who 
had fallen behind on their payments. Thats what the opening sentence of its February 2019 
letter makes clear.
Mrs P didnt fall behind on her payments until after February 2017  which Mrs P says was 
when her former husband handed her credit card back to her. It was at that time she 
contacted Barclaycard to tell it about her financial difficulties. So, Im satisfied the 2019 letter 
was about how Barclaycard treated her after that date. 
In her response to my provisional decision Mrs P says that the 2019 complaint (as 
described) isnt at issue. So, I dont think she's disputed my provisional decision that 
Barclaycard acted fairly and reasonably after she told it about her financial difficulties.
Having taken everything into account, whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mrs 
P, I dont uphold this complaint and I dont require Barclaycard to take any action.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Irene Martin
Ombudsman