DRN-2795972
The complaint
In summary, Ms B has complained that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited, didnt correctly 
report details of payments she made for a credit card account; to credit reference 
agencies.
What happened
Ms B had a credit card account. In December 2012, the outstanding debt on that account 
was purchased by Capquest. In October 2017, it instructed company B to manage the 
account and arrange collection of the monthly payments on its behalf.
From October 2017 the monthly payments were to be made to B, but Ms B continued to 
make them to Capquest. B managed the account, but Capquest was responsible for 
reporting information about the account to credit reference agencies.
In January 2018 Ms B obtained a copy of her credit report. She was concerned that arrears 
and late payments were showing on it in relation to this account. She didnt think this 
information was correct and raised a complaint with B. That complaint was referred to our 
service but wasnt upheld.
Ms B then raised a complaint with Capquest. It didnt uphold her complaint. It explained 
that it didnt think it had done anything wrong and said a late payment had been made in 
March 2019. But it agreed to remove late markers on her credit file which had been agreed 
by B, as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms Bs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. He upheld her complaint in 
part as he thought there had been some mistakes in the reporting of Miss Bs payments. And 
he thought Capquest should pay Ms B £100 for the inconvenience she had been caused.
Ms B didnt think she had received information about her arrears in 2016 and 2017. In 
summary she said part of her complaint was that Capquest hadnt provided her with the 
information she had asked for. She also said she had made a payment in December 2018 
and the additional payment made by Capquest was its error. She also believed an 
incorrect deduction had been made in February 2019. And she didnt think her account 
should have
any arrears on it for 2018 or 2019.
I wrote to the parties on 31 March 2021, setting out why intended to uphold Ms Bs 
complaint. I asked for responses to my provisional decision by 30 April 2021. Capquest 
acknowledged receipt of the decision and said it would respond before 30 April 2021. No 
response was received from it.
Ms B also acknowledged receipt of the decision.  In summary she said that she wasnt sure 
what information Capquest had provided regarding her credit files from 2017 onwards. She 
provided photos of her credit file from a credit reference agency and asked that I look at this. 
She asked that this be corrected in line with that held on other credit files.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its important that Capquest provided information to credit reference agencies that 
was in line with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) principles for the reporting 
of arrears to credit reference agencies.
This requires lenders to report data that is fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up 
to date. Lenders have to report missed payments and arrears.
It seems to me that one of the difficulties with Ms Bs account was that from October 2017, 
when B took over the management of her account, Ms B continued to make her monthly 
payments to Capquest. It has said that this led to delays in the payments being applied to 
her account. I accept that it is a matter for Capquest how it managed the account and it 
was entitled to ask Ms B to make the payments to B rather than to it.
But ultimately Capquest were the owners of the account. And whilst Ms B didnt make the 
payments in the manner Capquest asked her to from 2017, she did make the payments. 
And it looks like the majority of those payments were received by Capquest by the agreed 
payment dates.
Although I understand Capquests explanation to Ms B about how the payments were 
recorded as being when they were received by B, I dont think it was treating Ms B fairly in 
this case, by recording the payments as late, if they were received by Capquest on time. 
And as Ms B had been making payments directly to Capquest for a number of years, I can 
understand why she may have wanted to continue to make payments in that way.
Having initially reviewed the file I asked our investigator to obtain further information about 
the payment history for Ms Bs account, and the information Capquest provided to credit 
reference agencies. Capquest has provided information about the amounts and timing of 
payments to the account. From what Ive seen, I do have concerns about how the 
payments were recorded before and after B took over the management of the account.
I say this because for example In October 2013 the account is shown as OK which it says 
indicates repayment requirements were fulfilled. The records its provided show that 
between November 2013 and January 2014, the account payments as being AA. Its said 
this is a general code to show the account is in early arrears. But I find it difficult to 
understand why the payments have been recorded in this way, when Capquests records 
also show that Ms B had made the required monthly payments for all four of the above 
months. And there is an identical record for the months of March, April and May 2014.
But Ive also seen that some of the payment records appear to in Ms Bs favour. I say 
this because for example the payment records for September and November 2016 
record that the amount due in those months wasnt been fully paid. But the reported 
status shows as OK which doesnt appear to accurately record what has happened on 
the account.It also appears that from December 2017 all the payments were recorded as OK, when 
there were discrepancies between what Ms B paid, and sums that were requested over and 
above the usual monthly payment of £33.50 that Ms B had been asked to pay since 
Capquest purchased the debt in 2012. And I cant see that it was explained to her why she 
was being asked to make payments in some months, that were over and above the monthly 
repayment that had been agreed.
It seems from what Capquest has said that this may have been because B was notified of 
payments that were late and werent credited in the month they were paid for. But for the 
reasons Ive already explained above, I dont think Capquest was treating Ms B fairly by 
recording the payments in that way.
In summary, it seems to me the information recently supplied by Capquest, indicates that 
the data it provided to credit reference agencies, isnt in line with the ICO principles that Ive 
summarised above. Whilst the payments from late 2017 until the account was closed in late 
2019 appear to have been reported as OK, there have been discrepancies in the 
recording of entries prior to this.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms B has said in response to my provisional decision. And 
Ive considered the photos of the credit report that shes provided. Capquest isnt 
responsible for how information is reported by credit reference agencies. Its obligation is to 
provide credit reference agencies with information that reflects the payments made by Ms B 
and its payment agreements with her. 
It seems from what Ms B has said, that information recorded by other credit reference 
agencies is correct. So that doesnt suggest to me that Capquest has provided incorrect 
information to them. If Ms B thinks that the credit reference agency, shes referred to has 
incorrectly recorded information, then she will need to raise her concerns with them directly. 
Putting things right
So, to put things right, in addition to recording the late payment markers in the way that it 
has already agreed to do, Capquest should pay Ms B £100 for the inconvenience she has 
been caused as a result of not recording her payments correctly. In addition, it should 
correct her credit file to accurately reflect the payments she has made before December 
2017.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint about 
Capquest Debt Recovery Limited. And it needs to put things right in the manner that Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman