DRN-3888498
The complaint
Mr C complains about the price quoted by Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) to renew his 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C received a quote of £370.79 to renew his policy which he says was 75% higher than 
the previous year, so he complained. Tesco responded and explained the price they offered 
was based on their current risk assessment and existing ratings. They said they understand      
Mr Cs details hadnt changed but this isnt all they use to determine the cost of cover. They 
explained they use a series of risk assessments called rating factors to calculate a price. 
They said they regularly review their rates and this can sometimes lead to an increase for 
some customers. They explained their reviews are necessary to ensure customers are 
receiving the correct premium for their risk details and are in line with Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) guidelines. Tesco explained, as Mr C is a valued customer, theyve been 
able to apply a discount to the policy and the best price they can offer is £322.58.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. He thought Tesco hadnt treated Mr C unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ive looked at the renewal quote originally sent to Mr C and this is just over £160 more than 
what he paid the previous year. Following the loyalty discount, the quote was then just over 
£115 more. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. Tesco have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how Mr Cs price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price he was 
quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other Tesco 
customers in Mr Cs position will have been charged a lower premium. 
I acknowledge Mr C would like to know more about the changes in risk which have led to the 
change in premium. As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about Tescos risk 
model, but I can see part of the reason for the change in price was brought about by new 
rules for general insurance pricing introduced by the FCA in January 2022. They apply to 
motor and buildings insurance only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these 
rules when offering renewals. The rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals 
generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr C was offered his renewal by Tesco, so 
they did need to follow these at the time. And, given theyve done this, I cant say theyve 
acted unfairly if this has resulted in a change in price.  
Tesco have described the changes theyve made to their rating structure and how this has 
led to Mr Cs premium increase. Its for a business to decide what risks theyre prepared to 
cover and how much weight to attach to those risks. While we dont have the power to direct 
a business on what their risk model should look like, we can look to see whether theyve 
acted fairly.
As I've said, I cannot share all the information Mr C would likely want to see to understand 
why his premium increased as it did at renewal. A large reason for the change is in response 
to the FCA pricing rules and Tesco taking the steps they needed to, allowing them to be 
compliant with these. But they have also explained that they changed their view and 
approach on flood risk. As a result, the weighting and cost added to Mr C's policy for flood 
risk increased. 
Mr C may feel this is unfair, he hasnt moved house so why should something that feels so 
intrinsic to the location of the property be changed when his house hasnt. But Tesco, like all 
insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes 
to the premium. They have explained this was a change across all their policies as they 
changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the 
change and Mr C hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change their 
view on the flood risk on his property.  
In addition to this, I can see Tesco did, in their renewal quote, remind Mr C that he could 
shop around to see if he could get a better price. Mr C first took out his policy with Tesco in 
2018 so, as there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide specific wording 
about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mr C fairly, I think theyve also 
acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I can see, when Mr C complained about the price, Tesco did apply a loyalty discount. A 
business shouldnt offer a price higher than the ENBP and Im satisfied Tesco havent done 
that here. So, Im satisfied the discount they applied here wasnt to correct a mistake theyd 
made with the original quote but was as a result of a loyalty discount. So, I think Tesco 
increased Mr Cs premium at renewal correctly in keeping with the changes made to their 
risk ratings and underwriting guidelines. And, in addition to this, I think they treated Mr C 
fairly and reasonably in applying a loyalty discount. I understand Mr C feels insurance pricing should be in line with inflation and, while I agree 
this might be one of the factors an insurer might take into account, it wont be the only one  
and in this case I can see Tesco have taken into account other factors. I note Mr C says he 
has spoken with his neighbours, but their premium hasnt increased by the same percentage 
his has. I do acknowledge why this will worry Mr C but, as mentioned above, different 
insurers will apply different factors. Thats not to say an insurer offering a higher premium 
has made an error compared to an insurer offering a cheaper premium  but rather, it 
reflects the different approach theyve decided to take to risk.  
I understand Mr C will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why hes upset about the 
price increase given he feels hes been a loyal customer with Tesco for many years. I wish to 
reassure Mr C Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned 
a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. 
Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman