DRN-3708790
The complaint
Mr B complains HDI Global SE unfairly declined a claim on his commercial insurance policy, 
following a fire.
What happened
Mr Bs policy covers multiple properties he owns. He made a claim in December 2020 after a 
fire damaged one of the properties. The property in question is two adjoining buildings. The 
buildings were let to two different tenants and used for commercial purposes.
Mr Bs claim was declined due to an alleged misrepresentation about the use of the building 
in which the fire started. Whilst Mr B has dealt with several different parties, HDI is the 
insurer that underwrites the cover, so its responsible for his complaint. 
At renewal each year, the policy administrator asked Mr Bs broker to check the renewal 
documents and confirm if there had been any changes.
In March 2018, the broker confirmed it had been through the renewal details with Mr B. The 
broker noted changes to the use of four of the insured properties. In respect of the property 
that suffered the fire, the broker confirmed: This now has a garage and a (I havent 
quoted the use of the adjoining building as its not relevant to this complaint, and the 
information could potentially be used to identify the property by those who read the 
published final decision). 
HDI previously had the occupancy of the building now being used as a garage, listed as a 
motor accessories manufacturer. Due to an oversight, the policy administrator failed to 
update the occupancy from motor accessories manufacturer to garage.
In March 2019, the broker highlighted to the policy administrator that the occupation of the 
property hadnt been updated to a  and a garage. The policy administrator went on to 
update the occupation of the adjoining building. But the building where the fire started 
remained recorded as a motor accessories manufacturer.
In August 2019, a new tenant took over the building where the fire started. The tenant was 
operating a MOT station and tyre fitting service.
In February 2020, the policy administrator asked the broker a number of questions ahead of 
the March 2020 renewal, including: Any changes to the Risk / Occupancies? The broker 
noted he had been in contact with Mr B, and it answered: No change. 
Mr Bs policy renewed in March 2020, and the building continued to be recorded as a motor 
accessories manufacturer. The fire occurred in December 2020. HDI declined Mr Bs claim 
on the basis it wouldnt have covered the building had it known it was being used for tyre 
fitting. 
HDI accepted that, in March 2018, Mr B confirmed the building was being used as a garage. 
But, HDI said the use changed in August 2019, which Mr B didnt inform it about. HDI noted 
that, ahead of the 2020 renewal, Mr B was specifically asked whether there had been any 
changes to the risk and occupancies of his properties, to which Mr B answered no.
Mr B referred a complaint to this service. One of our investigators thought Mr Bs complaint 
should be partially upheld. He accepted HDI was entitled to avoid the policy and refuse any 
claims. However, he didnt think the misrepresentation was deliberate, so he thought HDI 
should refund the 2020/21 premiums for the property in question.
HDI agreed with our investigators recommendations. But because Mr B was unhappy with 
the outcome, his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining I intended to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Because Mr Bs policy is a non-consumer contract, the Insurance Act 2015 is the relevant 
misrepresentation legislation that applies to this complaint. 
To summarise, the Act explains:
-Mr B had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk.
-If Mr B breached his duty, and the breach is qualifying, there are specific remedies 
available to HDI depending on whether the breach was deliberate or reckless, or 
neither deliberate or reckless (also referred to as innocent). 
-A breach is deliberate or reckless if the policyholder knew they were in breach of 
their duty, or they didnt care whether they were in breach.
-A breach is qualifying if, but for the breach, HDI wouldnt have entered into the 
contract, or would have done so on different terms.
So, the first part of the test is whether Mr B breached his duty to make a fair presentation of 
the risk. The Act sets out the following:
-Mr B had to disclose every material circumstance which he knew or ought to have 
known  or failing that, Mr B had to give sufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries;
-Mr B had to make disclosures in a reasonably clear and accessible manner; and
-every material representation made as a matter of fact must be substantially correct, 
and every material representation made as a matter of expectation or belief must be 
made in good faith.
As per one of the loss adjusters reports, prior to August 2019, the building was operated as 
a motor engineers, providing mechanical servicing.Im not persuaded Mr B knew, or ought to have known, the change of use from mechanical 
servicing to MOT station and tyre fitting was a material circumstance. Overall, I find it 
reasonable that Mr B  who wouldnt have been aware of HDIs underwriting criteria  
continued to describe the occupancy as a garage.
HDI clearly covers commercial properties being used as a garage. However, HDI is aware it 
doesnt cover garages that provide a tyre fitting service. In such circumstances, I would 
reasonably expect a prudent insurer to make further enquiries when the property to be 
insured is referred to, or described as, a garage. 
Had Mr B been asked about tyre fitting services when he first told the policy administrator 
the occupancy had changed to a garage in March 2018, I would accept he ought to have 
known the change of tenant in August 2019 was a material circumstance (given they 
provided a tyre fitting service). However, I havent seen HDI made such enquiries in 
March 2018.
Whilst there was a change of tenant in August 2019, I havent seen HDI has ever needed to 
know who the tenants were for the insured properties, but rather, it only needed to know the 
use of the insured properties. Equally, in February 2020, HDI didnt ask if there had been a 
change of tenant. HDI asked if there had been a change of occupancy, which as per the 
policy schedule, was referring to the use of the properties. I accept the Act doesnt give 
consideration to whether the insurer asked clear questions when deciding whether the 
insured made a fair presentation of the risk. However, in the circumstances that I have 
described, Im not persuaded it can reasonably be said Mr B ought to have known the 
change of tenant was in itself a material circumstance (given that the new tenant was 
continuing to use the property as a garage).
On balance, Im more persuaded that Mr B gave sufficient information to put HDI on notice it 
needed to make further enquiries, than Mr B failed to disclose a circumstance he ought to 
have known was material. So, I intend to decide HDI should now consider Mr Bs claim in 
accordance with the remaining policy terms. 
As I understand it, Mr Bs policy wasnt avoided following the claim declinature (with cover 
continuing for the other insured properties). However, if the policy was avoided, HDI will 
need to reinstate it. In addition, HDI will need to amend its records and any central 
databases so any record of the avoidance is removed. 
If HDI does go on to settle Mr Bs claim and hes unhappy with its approach  or the amount 
it offers for financial loss or in respect of distress and inconvenience  he can make a new 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service if he wishes to do so.
   
For the avoidance of doubt, Ive not considered whether Mr B has suffered financial loss or 
distress and inconvenience  because HDI hasnt, to date, settled the claim. My intended 
decision is HDI should reinstate the policy (if it was avoided) and consider the claim in 
accordance with the remaining policy terms.
In my provisional decision, I also said:
My provisional decision is HDI Global SE should:
-reinstate Mr Bs policy if it was avoided, and remove any record of the avoidance 
from its records and any central databases; and
-consider Mr Bs claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms.If my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, this will be a direction and 
not a money award. However, the effect of this direction is that Mr Bs policy will be subject 
to the £355,000 limit on a money award in relation to this claim. If, having considered this 
claim, HDI decides its appropriate to settle it, the £355,000 limit will apply to the amount 
payable.
HDI disagreed with my provisional decision. To summarise, HDI said:
- The policy was issued based on Mr Bs statement of fact. He was required to check 
the information was correct and complete. It was also highlighted to him that if any 
of the information was incorrect, he should notify his broker and obtain a revised 
statement of fact and/or policy schedule.
- Mr B was asked to set out the occupation of the insured properties and the type of 
businesses undertaken at those premises. For the building in question, Mr B 
confirmed the occupation to be motor accessories manufacturer.  
- Mr B was informed of the following:
- He had to tell HDI about any material circumstances which affect his 
insurance. 
- A circumstance is material if it would influence HDIs judgement in 
determining whether to provide cover or the terms of the cover.
- If hes unsure whether a circumstance is material, he should ask his 
insurance advisor.
- If he fails to tell HDI about a material circumstance it could affect the extent of 
cover provided under the policy,
- The policy contains the following alteration in risk condition: This policy shall be 
avoided with effect from the date the event occurs if after commencement of this 
insurance:  there has been any alteration to the Property Insured and/or the 
Premises and/or the Business after the effective date of this insurance which 
increases a risk of loss, destruction, damage, accident or injury."
- The policy also contains a non-disclosure, misrepresentation, and misdescription 
condition. I wont repeat that condition, but its in-line with the Act I set out in my 
provisional decision.
- The premises in question was being operated as a motor accessories manufacturer 
until August 2019, when they were taken over by a business whose trade was 
described as a MOT station and tyre fitting service. 
- This change of trade and occupation wasnt advised to HDI at the time of the change 
or subsequently at renewal in March 2020. The Act applies to the fair presentation of 
the risk on renewal. HDI pointed towards sections 3 (3) and 3 (4) of the Act, which 
set out the fair presentation of risk requirements that I detailed in my provisional 
decision.
- There were two breaches of the duty of fair presentation: a) failure to notify a material 
circumstance of a change of trade/occupation; and b) failure to correct a material 
representation that become inaccurate by the time of renewal. HDI quoted the 
following from an insurance contract law book: -"material presented to insurers when the risk is first taken out carries over to 
any renewals, so that if any of the statements made in that original material 
have altered, then the assured is under a duty to correct those statements 
and is guilty of implied misrepresentation or non-disclosure if he fails to do 
so.
- For the March 2020 renewal, the answer to the question about trade/occupation was 
inaccurate as the premises was now occupied by a business conducting a different 
trade. The risk of loss, destruction, damage, accident, or injury would have 
increased.
- Mr B would have had knowledge of the material change in the trade/occupation at 
the time of the renewal and this ought to have been disclosed to HDI or his broker. 
Mr Bs duty included disclosure of what he knows or ought to know, and the Act 
explains knowledge includes what should reasonably have been revealed by a 
reasonable search of the information available.
- Section 7 (3) states: A circumstance or representation is material if it would influence 
the judgment of a prudent insurer in determining whether to take the risk and, if so, 
on what terms. Section 7 (4) gives the following example of a circumstance which 
may be material: anything which those concerned with the class of insurance and 
field of activity in question would generally understand as being something that 
should be dealt with in a fair presentation of risks of the type in question."
- In the circumstances of commercial property owners insurance, trade and occupation 
of the premises is generally understood as being something that should be dealt with 
in a fair presentation of risks of the type in question. 
- HDI pointed towards the questions asked about the trade/occupancy of the premises 
when the policy incepted, and it said by reference to the statement of fact, the policy 
terms, and the declaration, Mr B and the broker can have been under no illusion as 
to the relevance and materiality of the trade/occupancy of the insured premises.
- HDI also pointed towards its December 2019 underwriting guide which it says states: 
"Occupancies not listed above and shown as "declined" in the commercial trade list 
are illegible trades. HDI says garages are one such illegible trade. 
- HDI says it was induced by Mr Bs presentation of the risk, and had he not breached 
his duty to make a fair presentation of the risk, it would have only renewed the policy 
with the acceptable trades, and the property in question would have been removed 
from cover.
Mr B agreed with my provisional decision, but he questioned the award limit. To summarise, 
he said:
- The claim may fall within £355,000. But if the claim is higher, Mr B accepts he would 
have to proceed via the court route given the Financial Ombudsman Services 
£355,000 award limit for this case. 
- Mr B would like HDI to be directed to settle the claim subject to the policy terms and if 
theres later a dispute over the settlement, Mr B will re-approach this service if the 
expected settlement if within £355,000 or pursue others routes if the expected 
settlement exceeds £355,000.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, HDI reiterated the information provided to Mr B at 
inception and the various renewals. Those circumstances arent in dispute, so I wont 
comment further on those points.
HDI points towards the alteration in risk policy condition. Im mindful the Act allows insurers 
to contract out. To summarise, an insurer can include policy terms that puts the policyholder 
in a worse position than the Act, providing certain conditions are met. The insurer must take 
sufficient steps to draw the disadvantageous term to the attention of the policyholder before 
the policy is taken out, and the term must be clear and unambiguous as to its effect. Unless 
those conditions are met, a term which puts the policyholder in a worse position than the 
provisions of the Act, is of no effect.
Ive not seen HDI brought the alteration in risk policy condition to Mr Bs attention before he 
took the policy out. In any event, simply highlighting the condition wouldnt go far enough, in 
my view. HDI would need to explain the implications, in respect of the condition applying 
rather than the Act. I also dont find the alteration in risk policy condition to be clear and 
unambiguous, given the non-disclosure, misrepresentation, and misdescription policy 
condition follows the approach of the Act. Therefore, Im satisfied the Act applies here, 
rather than the alteration in risk policy condition. 
Ill now turn to the Act. Its not disputed that Mr B had a duty to make a fair presentation of 
the risk. In my view, the part of the Act thats relevant to the outcome of this complaint, in 
respect of Mr Bs duty, is:
- Mr B had to disclose every material circumstance which he knew or ought to have 
known  or failing that, Mr B had to give sufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries.
Prior to my provisional decision, HDI provided information that supports it was declining to 
cover tyre-based trades from around 2018 onwards. So, I accept tyre fitting was a material 
circumstance when the new tenant, who was providing tyre fitting services, took over the 
building in August 2019 and when the policy renewed in March 2020.
In response to my provisional decision, HDI also said its December 2019 underwriting guide 
shows it wasnt accepting garage trades. I havent seen a copy of that guide, but I also 
accept a garage was a material circumstance when the policy renewed in March 2020.
I also accept Mr B ought to have been aware of the activities being carried out by the tenant 
who took over the building in August 2019.
In HDIs response to my provisional decision, it said the building was operating as a motor 
accessories manufacturer until August 2019. However, as per the information previously 
provided to our service (which I set out in the background section of both my provisional 
decision and this final decision), HDIs statement is incorrect.During the March 2018 and March 2019 renewals, Mr B told HDI the trade/occupation had 
changed from motor accessories manufacturer to garage. On both occasions, HDI didnt 
update its records, or ask what services were being provided by the garage. The tenant at 
that time was providing mechanical servicing. But irrespective of whether HDI updated its 
records in March 2018 and March 2019, Mr B had disclosed the trade/occupation had 
changed to garage before the new tenant took over the premises in August 2019. 
As I noted in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded Mr B knew, or ought to have known, 
the change of use from mechanical servicing to MOT station and tyre fitting was a material 
circumstance. Im more persuaded it was reasonable for Mr B to consider both of those 
trades/occupations to be a garage. So, I find it reasonable that in February 2020, Mr B 
answered the question Any changes to the Risk / Occupancies? with No change. 
Furthermore, even if the Act required Mr B to disclose every material circumstance, whether 
or not he knew the circumstance was material, the Act makes it clear its enough for him to 
have given sufficient information to have put a prudent insurer on notice it needs to make 
further enquiries. Im persuaded Mr B had given sufficient information.
HDI has provided information to show it wasnt covering tyre-based trades when the policy 
renewed in March 2019. Yet, despite being made aware at that time the building was now 
being used as a garage, HDI made no enquiries about the services being provided by the 
garage. It remains my view a prudent insurer would have made such enquiries. Had HDI 
done so, Mr B would have likely known the change of tenant in August 2019, whilst still a 
garage, was a material circumstance. Furthermore, HDI also says, irrespective of tyres, 
garages werent an acceptable trade when the policy renewed in March 2020. But HDI 
had previously been told the building was being used as a garage.
I acknowledge that in March 2020, Mr B didnt flag the trade/occupancy was still incorrectly 
recorded as motor accessories manufacturer rather than garage. I accept that had Mr B 
done so, HDI may have been prompted to make enquiries. However, on balance, Im not 
persuaded it would be reasonable to rely on Mr Bs oversight in March 2020, given HDI 
failed to update its records during the previous two renewals when he did flag the 
trade/occupancy had since changed to garage.
So, in conclusion, I remain of the view HDI hasnt applied the Act in a fair and reasonable 
manner, bearing in mind the circumstances leading up to the claim. Therefore, my final 
decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
Ill now turn to our award limits. Any direction I make is subject to our award limits. The 
applicable award limit for this case is £355,000.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, it becomes legally binding. So, HDI would need to consider 
the claim subject to the remaining policy terms. If HDI goes on to accept the claim, it would 
be for HDI to determine the settlement amount. Importantly, my final decision would only 
bind HDI to pay up to £355,000. As such, if the settlement amount exceeds £355,000, it 
would be up to HDI whether it paid Mr B more than £355,000.
If theres a dispute about HDIs further claim decision, or the settlement, Mr B is free to bring 
a new complaint to our service. However, its unlikely we would be able to direct HDI to pay 
more than £355,000 in total.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, and HDI limits the settlement to £355,000, he may not be 
able to go to court to ask for more compensation. If going to court is something Mr B would 
want to explore in the event HDI limits the settlement to £355,000, he should consider 
getting independent legal advice before accepting my final decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is HDI Global SE should:
- reinstate Mr Bs policy if it was avoided, and remove any record of the avoidance 
from its records and any central databases; and
-consider Mr Bs claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms.
My final decision is a direction, not a money award. However, the effect of this direction is 
that Mr Bs policy will be subject to the £355,000 limit on a money award in relation to this 
claim. So, if having considered this claim, HDI decides its appropriate to settle it, the 
£355,000 limit will apply to the amount payable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman