DRN-4049015
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) has refused to refund the money he has lost 
following him falling victim to a scam.
Mr R is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr R 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr R found an advert for the business Bittrust (X) online and started discussions 
with it about investing in cryptocurrency. X convinced Mr R to make investments with it.
X explained to Mr R that he would have to make payments into the investments via 
cryptocurrency exchanges and helped him setup these accounts using the screen sharing 
application AnyDesk.
Mr R made the following payments to X:
Date Merchant Amount Payment Method
7 July 2021 All Prime Pay £250 Debit Card
13 July 2021 Luno £1 Transfer
15 July 2021 Luno £1,000 Transfer
19 July 2021 Convertency.EU £909 Debit Card 
28 July 2021 Convertency.EU £999 Debit Card
9 November 2021 Luno £3,000 Transfer
5 April 2022 Luno £2 Transfer
5 April 2022 Luno £10 Transfer
5 April 2022 Luno £3,000 Transfer
14 April 2022 Luno £3,000 Transfer
14 April 2022 Luno £4,500 Transfer
14 April 2022 Luno £4,500 Transfer
14 April 2022 Luno £6,000 Transfer
Mr R was able to see his investments growing via the platform provided by X and having 
made a substantial profit decided to make a withdrawal. X explained Mr R would have to 
make further payments before funds could be released, but after making these payments Mr 
R was still unable to make a withdrawal, and it became apparent he had fallen victim to a 
scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Rs complaint but didnt it should be upheld. Mr R disagreed, 
he said BoS should have done more to protect him from the scam. Mr R also said he was 
vulnerable at the time of the scam due to the passing of his mother.
As Mr R disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both Mr 
R and BoS set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether BoS should refund any 
of the money Mr R has lost because of this scam.
Recovering the payments Mr R made
Mr R made some payments by transfer and others via his debit card. But all the payments 
Mr R made were to accounts in his name at different cryptocurrency exchanges before the 
funds were transferred to X.
As the payments Mr R made from his account with BoS were to another account in his own 
name BoS has no method of recovering the funds.
Should BoS have reasonably prevented the payments Mr R made? 
Its accepted that Mr R authorised the payments that were made from his account with BoS, 
albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr R is responsible. However, 
banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether BoS should have been aware of the scam and stepped in, and 
if it had stepped in, whether it would have been able to stop the scam.
The payments Mr R made from 7 July 2021 to 28 July 2021 were all for amounts up to, but 
not exceeding £1,000, and the payments were made on separate days. Mr R was making 
these payments to new payees, but it would not be reasonable for me to say BoS should 
step in every time one of its customers pays a new business a relatively low sum. 
On the 9 November 2021 Mr R made a payment of £3,000 to Luno as part of the scam. This 
payment did trigger BoS fraud prevention systems and it stepped in to have a conversation 
with Mr R. I have listened to a recording of this conversation.
During the call the BoS representative asked Mr R several questions designed to uncover 
key characteristics of a scam like the one Mr R was falling victim to. Mr R confirmed several 
times that no one was helping him with the investment he was making and that no one else 
was involved.
Mr R has since told our service he was coached by X and told not to mention X, or that 
anyone had contacted him, otherwise the payment could be blocked.
The answers Mr R provided to BoS disguised the scam and I think it was reasonable that 
due to the incorrect information provided by Mr R, BoS was unable to uncover the scam.
Had BoS asked further questions when Mr R attempted to make further payments into the 
scam, I think its likely he would have once again followed the instructions given to him by X 
to have the payments approved. So, I dont think BoS missed an opportunity to prevent this 
scam from taking place, and it is not responsible for any of the money Mr R lost.
Mr R has told us that his mother had recently passed away and that this made him more vulnerable at the time of the scam. I understand this was a difficult time for Mr R but I havent 
seen enough to say this affected his decision making in regards to making the payments, or 
the incorrect answers he gave BoS. So, this doesnt change my decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman