DRN-1167509
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy because TSB Bank plc no longer print his account statements in branch.
What happened
Mr D holds accounts with TSB. He went into his local branch every now and then to get his 
statements printed. When Mr D recently went into the branch to get his statements, TSB said 
they no longer offered this service.
TSB said there were a number of other ways Mr D could get paper copies of his statements. 
Mr D told TSB he couldnt print the statements at home as he didnt have a printer. TSB said 
Mr D could get his statements from an ATM, or it could order a copy for him in the branch to 
be sent out in the post. It also suggested Mr D could receive his statements monthly by post.
Mr D complained to TSB. He said he hadnt been given a valid reason why it no longer 
offered this service, and said he liked the option of getting his statements printed now and 
again. TSB didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, so he asked our service to investigate the matter.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that TSB had acted reasonably in offering Mr D other ways to get his statements.
Mr D disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint, and for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why below.
Our investigator has already explained to Mr D that TSBs decision to stop printing 
statements in branch was a commercial judgement. I wont be commenting on its decision to 
do this here, as that would be a matter for the regulator. What I will determine is whether 
TSBs actions were fair and reasonable in response to Mr Ds request to get his statements 
in branch.
Having considered everything, I do think TSB has acted reasonably here. I can see it offered 
Mr D the option of getting monthly paper statements. And it said its staff could assist him in 
getting a copy from an ATM, or by ordering statements to be delivered. And I can see it 
acknowledged Mr D didnt have a printer at home so focussed on other solutions for him.
I appreciate Mr Ds comment that moving to monthly paper statements is a waste of paper. 
But I cant reasonably ask TSB to do anything differently when it has given Mr D a number of 
alternatives to receive his statements. So I dont require TSB to do anything further in regard 
to this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman