The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage during a branch 
meeting in 1997. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say there was no discussion about PPI and that it was added to their 
mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. However Ive seen a copy of the PPI 
proposal form dated 14 November 1997. Mr and Mrs S have chosen to split the benefit 
70/30 in favour of Mr S, which suggests that there was some discussion about how the 
policy would best meet their needs. And Mr and Mrs S have both signed the form.
Ive also seen a copy of the PPI Welcome letter that Lloyds sent to Mr and Mrs S on 20 
January 1998 which thanks them for choosing the policy. This enclosed the policy schedule 
setting out the level of benefit, the benefit split and the cost.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs S have provided their genuine recollection of events. But 
the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ss memory has 
faded. Based on the available evidence, I consider that Mr and Mrs S would have known that 
they had a choice about taking out the PPI. It seems to me that they decided to buy it, 
knowing they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs S to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending the PPI to them, 
it needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs S say that both of their employers would have given them sick pay of six months 
full pay, followed by half pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
DRN-1599050potentially for longer than Mr and Mrs S would have received full pay. The couple havent 
mentioned any other means, such as savings that they could fall back on.
Mr and Mrs S decided to split the benefit so that Mr S would receive 70% and Mrs S would 
receive 30%. It makes sense to split the benefit to reflect the fact that Mr S was the higher 
earner at the time. Overall, I havent seen anything about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances that 
made the policy an unsuitable recommendation.
Lloyds also needed to provide Mr and Mrs S with enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them. I consider that Mr and 
Mrs S would have known something about the PPI  that it would cover their mortgage 
repayments they were unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because 
I dont think theyd have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs S werent affected by 
any of those things. As I think they had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. It follows that I 
dont uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have said that theyve had another complaint about mortgage PPI upheld. I 
dont know the details of that case. However, based on the evidence Ive seen in relation to 
this complaint, I am not persuaded that this mortgage PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman