DRN-3584309
The complaint
Mr C has complained about a conservatory installation he funded using a fixed sum loan 
with Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (MHCC).
What happened
Mr C paid £11,300 for a conservatory from a company Ill call D in July 2018 using a 
fixed sum loan from MHCC. D installed the conservatory and Mr C signed a satisfaction 
note in September 2018.
In March 2020 Mr C complained to MHCC there were problems with the conservatory. 
He said there were gaps and a draft coming from the door. He said the gaps were 
causing damp issues. Over the next few months MHCC liaised with D about the problem. 
D was hesitant to visit Mr Cs property because the relationship had broken down. D also 
indicated Mr C may have caused the damage by drilling a screw through the wall. It said 
the rear wall was also full of algae which was outside the conservatory but at the same 
elevation. So D thought the damp was travelling through the hole drilled by Mr C. D also 
said Mr C had pulled part of the trim off near another area of damp. D said it had offered 
to use sealant to resolve the issues.
Things werent getting resolved so MHCC and D decided to instruct an independent firm 
to carry out a report. This was carried out in September 2020. And the report said, in 
summary:
Sealant down the right-hand side has a hole near the bottom and paint coming 
away near the top.
Silicone coming away from the render.
Lead only into render approximately 10mm and it should be deeper.
Hollow soffit fitted upside down so water will tunnel along the groove.
Sills not sealed to brickwork externally.
MHCC and D liaised with the firm that carried out the inspection and asked for a quote to 
put things right. The inspection firm said to replace the soffit boards and lead to fix the 
high-level leaks it would charge £720 for materials and £800 for labour. But there was still 
the issue with the leaks between the sills and brickwork which cant be accessed with the 
frames in-situ. So it said the only way to carry out a proper repair would be to remove the 
frames and roof and to refit from scratch ensuring the sills are sat properly into full beds of 
silicone. It said this would cost around £3,500 but it couldnt guarantee the product. It said 
there was no quick fix.
Mr C has also provided a letter from another tradesperson that says the full 
conservatory needs taking down for the necessary work to be carried out and theres 
no guarantee this will resolve everything.
MHCC highlighted D thought some of the damage was caused by Mr C but it accepted it 
was responsible for some of the issues. So to resolve the complaint, MHCC and D 
ultimately offered Mr C £1,500. This was calculated as £630 for labour and materials plus 
compensation. Mr C wasnt happy with the offer. He said he accepted hed exposed an 
area to see where the damp was coming from. He said hed removed some of the plastic 
strip, plaster and two tiles. The drilled hole wasnt near the area of damp. He said it was 
coming from under the sill and from other areas.
Mr C brought the complaint to our service to consider. And one of our investigators 
thought MHCC should pay Mr C £3,500 in line with the independent firms conclusions. 
She also thought MHCC should pay £300 compensation. Mr C wasnt happy with the 
offer. He was worried about what would happen to the guarantee. He also highlighted 
there was no mention of consequential losses such as the need to replaster and repaint. 
He also didnt think the compensation was sufficient. He said he wanted it repaired or 
replaced or taken away with a refund. He also highlighted hed struggled to find a firm 
whod carry out works on the conservatory. And he said the replastering would cost 
around £300.
MHCC also didnt agree. It said the hole Mr C drilled and the algae outside the 
conservatory contributed to the leak. And it thought the cash settlement was the fairest 
way to proceed.
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend 
any discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to 
assure Mr C and MHCC that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on 
something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on 
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr C paid for the conservatory using a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and our service is able to consider complaints relating to 
these sorts of agreements.
I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 makes MHCC responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier
(D) under certain conditions.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. Mr C paid for 
goods and services using the fixed sum loan from MHCC. The goods being the 
conservatory, and the service being the installation.
The CRA implies terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality, 
fit for their intended purpose and as described. It says traders must perform the service 
with reasonable care and skill. The CRA also sets out what remedies are available to 
consumers if statutory rights under a goods or services contract are not met.
It looks like D has acknowledged its responsible for some of the issues highlighted on 
the independent inspection. And based on what the inspection says I dont think its in 
dispute theres been a breach of contract because I dont consider the installation was 
carried out with reasonable care and skill. What is in dispute is how much of the issue 
was caused by something not linked to that. And the evidence here is very limited. I 
simply dont have sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mr C has significantly 
contributed to the issues, or that the problems were caused by something not linked to 
the installation.It wouldve been helpful had the independent inspector been given some details about 
what faults MHCC or D thought they should not have been responsible for. Without that, 
and based on the findings in the report, I cant safely conclude the issues werent 
primarily down to poor workmanship from D. I say this because the issues seem to be 
down to the conservatory not being sealed properly. The inspector noted silicone was 
coming away; the lead wasnt installed into the render deep enough; the soffit was upside 
down allowing water to tunnel along the groove; and the sills werent sealed to the 
brickwork externally. And it seems reasonable to conclude that if the conservatory is not 
sealed properly theres a good chance of water ingress which could cause the damp Mr C 
has complained about.
Where theres a breach of contract under a services contract, consumers have certain 
rights. They may have the right to repeat performance as well as the right to a price 
reduction.
Consumers can also seek other remedies. Repeat performance should be carried out 
within a reasonable amount of time and without significant inconvenience caused to the 
consumer. Consumers can ask for an appropriate price reduction if that doesnt happen, 
or if the repeat performance is impossible.
In Mr Cs case MHCC has offered him a cash sum so he can arrange a repair along with 
some compensation. But Im mindful that, based on the evidence I have available, this 
would only resolve the high-level leaks. Given Ive not been shown all the issues werent 
down to the workmanship of D I dont consider thats a fair resolution.
So Ive next thought about our investigators recommendation. She recommended MHCC 
pay Mr C £3,500 in line with the independent inspection firms estimate of what it would 
cost to resolve the issues. But it hasnt said if this is definitely the cost. It also said it 
wouldnt be able to guarantee the work. And this doesnt cover any repairs to the damage 
caused by the damp. Im also mindful another firm has said this might not resolve things. 
So if I were to direct MHCC to do the same, Im not sure I can safely conclude this will 
resolve the issues.
Taking everything Ive said above into account, and given how long ago Mr C complained 
about the faults, I dont consider proper repeat performance has been offered or carried 
out within a reasonable amount of time. While I can understand MHCCs explanations for 
why D didnt want to return, it did ultimately have other options such as asking another 
trader (like the inspection firm) to carry out repairs. And Mr C was ultimately willing for D 
to return. I think the damp is causing significant inconvenience. Im not persuaded that a 
payment of
£3,500 will fully resolve the issue. It looks like the majority of the conservatory will need to 
be dismantled before any repairs can be carried out. And its not clear those repairs will be
successful. So Im minded to say the fairest thing now will be for MHCC to arrange to 
have the conservatory removed.
Mr C was able to use the conservatory. But his use was impaired. It sounds like it was 
only in the warmer months where he could enjoy it to some extent, at least for the last 
couple of years after he complained. Compensation for distress and inconvenience is 
limited with this type of complaint. I need to think about what a court might award in a 
similar case. Courts do consider whats known as general damages. But awards in 
building cases where distress and inconvenience have been caused tend to be modest. 
MHCC can be held liable if the breach of contract caused Mr C physical inconvenience or 
discomfort as a result of living in a defective home. And, to some extent, I think thats 
whats happened here.When deciding how to put things right, Ive taken into account what Ive said above. Ive 
also considered there will be costs to put things right for Mr C once the conservatory is 
removed. And hes had the costs of decorating the conservatory, some of which he may 
incur again if he decides to purchase another. Theres no exact calculation to use, but Im 
minded to say the conservatory should be removed and Mr C should receive a full refund. 
I also think Mr C should be compensated for having to make good the damage. Hes said 
hes been given a quote for replastering of around £300.
I think MHCC should reimburse him for any costs he incurs to make good on receipt of an 
invoice. I appreciate the costs might be different to what hes already had quoted given 
the removal of the conservatory. Im minded to say these costs should be capped at £500. 
And I think compensation for distress and inconvenience is effectively offset against the 
use hes had of the conservatory seeing as though hes getting a refund. I think this offers 
a fair way to draw a line under things. If Mr C thinks the costs to make good will be 
drastically different to what Ive said above, he should provide evidence in response to 
this provisional decision.
Ive finally thought about how MHCC dealt with the claim. I think it was proactive in 
contacting D and the independent inspection firm. A lot of the delays here were down to 
D, and I dont doubt that MHCCs services were impacted as a result of Covid-19. But, on 
the whole, while I acknowledge Mr C didnt ultimately accept MHCCs proposal, I think its 
overall claim handling was fair. So Im not going to direct it to do anything else.
Mr C responded to ask if certain works would be covered. And he also wanted to know 
whether the concrete base would be taken away. He told us that before the conservatory 
was built, he had a lean-to. So he questioned if the conservatory was taken away what 
would be in its place? Mr C said he spent around £500 getting the tiles laid, around £300 for 
plastering, £300 for electrics and around £200 for an extra radiator. But hes not been able to 
provide evidence of the costs. 
Mr C highlighted hed spent a lot of time trying to resolve things. And he thought he should 
receive a full refund along with something to replace the conservatory. Alternatively, he 
thought he should receive a full refund and the conservatory to be left in place, as its better 
to have something there than nothing at all. 
MHCC responded to say there was insufficient evidence the installation was structurally 
unsound. MHCC also said Mr C had acknowledged hed damaged the conservatory by 
removing the plastic strip, plaster and 2 tiles to find out where the draft was coming from. It 
asked if there was any evidence from inspections that Mr C was unable to get a 
tradesperson to carry out repairs. It questioned whether the removal of the conservatory was 
proportionate. And it also said it works with a new company that could carry out an 
independent report.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the responses. And while theres no perfect solution, I think my 
recommendations in the provisional decision offer a fair way to resolve things.  
Mr C seems primarily unhappy hes going to be left without something in place of the 
conservatory. He tells us he had a lean-to there before. But he also tells us that when he 
decided to buy the new conservatory, he arranged to remove the lean-to prior to work 
commencing. So I think, by removing the conservatory, he will be broadly in the same position he was in prior to it being built. And with a full refund he can decide if he wants to 
buy something else in its place. 
It would not be practicable to direct MHCC to reinstall a like for like lean-to to what was there 
before. And I dont consider it would be fair to MHCC to say Mr C should receive a full refund 
and for him to also keep the current conservatory or be provided a new conservatory or lean-
to. 
We asked Mr C if hed be willing to have another firm carry out an inspection. But he said 
hed prefer not to considering how long things have been going on for. Ive already been 
supplied with the results of an independent inspection, so I dont consider we need to get 
another one. And I cant force Mr C to accept another report where theres already one 
submitted  particularly given it was MHCC that arranged it in the first place. 
MHCC mentioned again that Mr C may have contributed to the damage. But Ive already 
explained in my provisional decision why I cant safely conclude the issues werent primarily 
down to Ds workmanship. 
MHCC has said the outcome may not be proportionate. And that theres insufficient evidence 
the structure is unsound. However, it seems that, to resolve things, significant repairs would 
be required. And the evidence Ive seen indicates the conservatory may have to be rebuilt to 
a large extent. MHCC had the opportunity to attempt this with D or the independent firm it 
found but it decided to offer to cover the cost to resolve the high-level leaks. In any event, its 
not even clear a full repair or rebuild would resolve things. And I think the way the 
conservatory has been installed has led to further issues that will need resolving. So for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision, I think removing the conservatory and offering a 
refund seems like a fair way to resolve things. 
Mr C has asked whether the base would be removed. Ive not been told theres any issue 
with the base. So I think if he chooses to accept this decision and have the conservatory 
removed, I think its fair he can choose to keep the base as it is if he wants. Unlike other 
parts of the conservatory, the base cant be used again, and it might be better for all parties 
to leave it as it is.
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Cs request for compensation in relation to the tiles; plastering; 
electrics and heating. But hes not given us evidence of what hes spent and when, and its 
not clear what items he wont be able to use again if he decides to buy another conservatory 
or lean-to. I did acknowledge that theres likely costs he will incur again, but I also set out in 
my provisional decision why I thought, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, 
those could broadly be offset against the use Mr C had of the conservatory. I gave Mr C an 
opportunity to evidence the costs to make good would come to over £500. But hes not 
provided anything to support that. So without sufficient evidence of losses or prospective 
losses Im not minded to change what Ive recommended in my provisional decision.
All things considered, Mr C wants MHCC to do more, but I think my provisional decision puts 
him in a fair position to decide whether he wants to, to a large extent, start again. I also 
appreciate MHCC thinks taking down the conservatory might be disproportionate, and that it 
wants another opportunity to arrange an inspection. Its been a long time since Mr C 
complained. It ultimately had the opportunity to arrange another inspection after it received 
the first. It had an opportunity to arrange repeat performance. Its not clear that repeat 
performance will likely resolve things properly. I need to base my decision on the evidence 
thats presented to me. And taking everything into account, I think what I set out in my 
provisional decision is a fair and reasonable way to draw a line under things for all parties. 
So Im not going to change my recommendations.   My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mitsubishi HC Capital UK to:
1. End the finance agreement with nothing further owing and, in the event 
theres any adverse information relating to the agreement on Mr Cs credit file 
this should be removed.
2. Arrange for the conservatory to be removed at no cost to Mr C.
3. Refund all payments made by Mr C together with 8% simple interest from the 
date each payment was made to the date of settlement*.
4. Reimburse Mr C the cost (up to £500) to make good the property 
after the conservatory is removed, upon receipt of an invoice.
*If MHCC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman