DRN-3792429
The complaint
Mr A complains that Contis Financial Services Limited unfairly closed his account and 
blocked several direct debits that had been set up.
What happened
Mr A applied for an account with Contis through another organisation Ill refer to as F. Contis 
and F had an arrangement that allowed accounts to be opened with Contis if they were a 
member of F.
F sent Mr As details to Contis who opened an account. Shortly after the account was 
opened, Mr A updated his address details with F, who sent them to Contis. After reviewing 
the change of address, Contis decided they no longer wished to offer an account to Mr A 
and sent him notice that it was to be closed.
Mr A complained about this to Contis, explaining that hed spent time setting up direct debits 
with various other businesses and the closure of the account had caused him unnecessary 
stress.
Contis looked into the complaint but didnt change their position, so Mr A brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Mr As complaint 
was looked into by one of our investigators who thought that it was reasonable for Contis to 
close the account, but thought theyd caused Mr A unnecessary difficulties with his cancelled 
direct debits and recommended Contis pay Mr A £50.
Contis disagreed with the investigators recommendations and provided evidence that no 
direct debits were set up on the account.
The complaint has now been passed to me. I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Contis received further information about Mr A, they carried out an internal review and
decided to close the account. Contis have obligations to operate accounts within various
rules and regulations, so I dont think it was unreasonable that they checked the updated
information about Mr A when it was received from F.
Contis are entitled to carry out reviews of account holders and once theyd considered the
new details, they decided to end their relationship with him. This was a decision that followed
the terms of the account that both Contis and Mr A agreed to, so I dont think the closure of
the account was unreasonable.
Regarding the direct debits, I understand Mr A explained that hed spent time setting the
direct debits up with various other organisations, but later couldnt provide any evidence of
this. Contis provided evidence that no direct debits were set up on the account. So, whilst I
appreciate Mr A would have been inconvenienced when he was setting these direct debits
up, I dont think it warrants a payment from Contis.
I say that because Contis opened the account based on information theyd received from F
and once theyd reviewed the updated information, they closed it. I dont think they could
have anticipated the closure of the account based on the original information they received
from F. There will often be some inconvenience when an accounts closed, so I dont think
its reasonable to then require a payment from Contis to Mr A because of this.
I understand the situation caused Mr A distress and thats had an unfortunate impact on him.
But Contis acted to review the account and close it following the receipt of new information,
which I think was reasonable and Im currently not intending to uphold this complaint.
I invited Mr A and Contis to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Contis didnt have anything further to add and Mr 
A was adamant that hed set up direct debits but couldnt provide any evidence of this.
Mr A was concerned about his financial standing as a result of this complaint and the effect it 
may have had on his credit file. Mr A believed that because another complaint against a 
different company was settled, this one should be as well.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add that would change my 
original opinion, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision 
confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision. For the avoidance of doubt, I wont 
be asking Contis to make any payment towards Mr A.
This complaint against Contis is restricted to how they handled his application and 
subsequent closure rather than other matters linked to wider financial issues Mr A has told 
us about. I appreciate his frustrations here, but I cant consider Mr As other concerns in his 
complaint against Contis.
Also, I understand Mr A feels that this complaint should be settled because another 
complaint against a different company resulted in a payment to him. When considering Mr 
As complaint, Ive assessed it based on the circumstances of his experience with Contis, not 
other businesses, which is why I havent upheld it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman