DRN-2561217
The complaint
Mr O complains that 3J Finance Limited wont let him out of an agreement to pay for an 
educational course for his children.  
What happened
In November 2018 Mr O purchased an online educational course for his children from a 
supplier who Ill call E. Mr O says that a representative visited his house to talk about the 
course and told him it was pay as you go. By the end of the meeting Mr O had agreed to 
purchase the course.
Mr O says he later discovered that he had entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with 3J 
to finance the course. He says he was unaware that he had entered into a loan, and that had 
he known this, he would not have entered into the agreement. Mr O said he had recently 
relocated to the UK and that his financial situation at the time was poor, as he was employed 
by an agency with no set hours or guarantee of work.
The loan with 3J was for £5880, payable by 60 monthly instalments. Mr O paid a £60 
deposit, so the total cost of the agreement was £5,940.
3J said that all of the paperwork was clear about the product and the loan agreement and 
that Mr O had signed this at the time. 3J also said that Mr O had been provided with copies 
of all the paperwork and that his 14-day cancellation rights were outlined in this.
When Mr O told E that he no longer wanted to continue the course, it told him to contact 3J. 
3J told Mr O that he was responsible for repaying all of the outstanding balance under the 
loan agreement.
Mr O was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that based on the available information, the 
loan had been misrepresented to Mr O.
3J disagreed. It said that ultimately, Mr O had signed a number of documents showing that 
he agreed to take out a loan. They didnt think it was reasonable that Mr O didnt realise that 
he was entering into a loan agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
3J has responsibilities to Mr O under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. There are two sections 
of the Act which might provide Mr O with protection  section 56 and section 75.
Section 56 has the effect of making the representative who sold the loan the agent of 3J 
during the negotiations leading up to Mr O entering the agreement. This means 3J can be 
held responsible for things which were said during the sales process. Section 75 makes 3J 
responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation made in relation to the purchase 
of the course. 
3J relies on the documents signed by Mr O and says he wouldve been aware that he was 
entering into a loan agreement. But this isnt the only issue here. Its important to look at what 
happened before the documents were signed, and in particular, to look at what the 
representative said. 
There arent any notes of the discussions between Mr O and the representative. Nor has 3J 
provided any comments from the salesperson as to what he/she said. Mr O has given clear 
and consistent testimony that he was reassured that he could cancel at any time. Im 
accepting Mr Os testimony, because his financial and employment circumstances at the 
time make it unlikely that he would knowingly enter into a 60-month loan.
Ive also taken into account that Mr O contacted the course provider to cancel of his own 
volition. This is consistent with what Mr O has said about believing that he could cancel at 
any time, based on what the representative had said to him.
I havent been able to listen to the call recording of the first time Mr O contacted the course 
provider to cancel. The system notes provider by the business indicate that Mr O asked to 
cancel because his children were no longer interested. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that the representative told Mr 
O that he could cancel at any time and failed to make it clear that Mr O was entering into a 
loan agreement. Because the statement about being able to cancel at any time wasnt true, 
Im satisfied that this was a misrepresentation for which 3J must accept responsibility. 
I appreciate that a 14-day cancellation period was noted on the paperwork provided to Mr O. 
However, I think its unlikely that Mr O wouldve felt the need to query this because Im 
persuaded that hed already been told by the representative that he could cancel at any time.  
Putting things right
To put things right 3J should:
- Cap Mr Os liability for the loan at the sum of repayments due at the date he first 
asked to cancel. Anything else should be written off.
- If Mr O has paid more than the capped liability, these payments should be refunded 
along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date he made each overpayment to 
the date of settlement
- If Mr O has paid less than the capped liability, an affordable repayment plan must be 
arranged for the balance up to the cap
- Remove any negative information from Mr Os credit file and mark the agreement as 
settled from the date he first contacted the course provider and asked to cancel. If Mr 
O has not yet paid u0p to the capped liability, 3J doesnt need to mark the loan as 
settled until he has paid up to the cap
- Arrange with Mr O for the return of any course materials he received under the 
agreement  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold the complaint. 3J Finance Limited must take the action Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman