DRN-3699575
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mortgage Express is unfairly pursuing him for repayment of a mortgage 
shortfall resulting from its sale of his property in 2009.
What happened
In 2007, Mr H took a buy to let remortgage with Mortgage Express for approximately 
£93,500 plus fees. The mortgage had a term of 20 years and was set up on an interest only 
basis.
The mortgage started to fall into arrears towards the end of 2007 and Mortgage Express 
instructed a receiver to manage the property in September 2008. The receiver sold the 
property towards the end of 2009 and the mortgage was partially redeemed from the 
proceeds of the sale  £55,612.79  on 1 January 2010. That left a debit balance of 
approximately £55,000.
Mr H called Mortgage Express in October 2010 complaining that he thought the property 
was sold substantially below market value. Mortgage Express wrote to Mr H on                     
2 February 2011 saying it didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and confirmed he could refer the 
matter to this Service, but had six months in which to do so. It said the receivers actions  
which would have been the decision to take possession and sell the property, including the 
timing of the sale  would need to be addressed by the receiver.
Mr H wrote to Mortgage Express in September 2011, saying his property was sold at too low 
a price and he refuses to acknowledge the debt. Mortgage Expresss contact notes indicate 
that it unsuccessfully tried to trace Mr H for several years but made contact in 2019.
On 16 July 2021 Mr H complained to Mortgage Express saying he was disappointed it had 
decided to resurrect the issue  its pursuit of Mr Hs outstanding debt with it.
In its final response letter dated 15 September 2021, Mortgage Express said it was satisfied 
that it was still able to pursue the debt. It said Mr H was still liable for the outstanding 
shortfall and it hadnt acted incorrectly by sending him a letter in that regard. The final 
response letter confirmed that Mr H had six months to refer that complaint to this Service if 
he didnt agree with Mortgage Expresss findings.
Mr H didnt agree so he asked us to look into his complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold  
Mr Hs complaint. She said she didnt find that Mortgage Express acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in taking Mr Hs property into possession. And she thought Mortgage Express 
could pursue Mr H for the shortfall.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. However, I noticed that Mr H expanded on the complaint he made to 
Mortgage Express when asking us to consider it.  He complained to Mortgage Express about 
its current pursuit of him for repayment of the debt. But, during our consideration of his 
complaint, he said hes unhappy about when Mortgage Express issued a default notice and 
other issues that occurred around the time of it taking the property into possession, 
including:
its decision to take possession of the property, 
the amount of money it accepted in selling the property,
and fees charged to the mortgage account when Mr H couldnt make payments.
While our investigator addressed those issues, Mortgage Express had only consented to us 
looking into Mr Hs complaint about its current pursuit of the outstanding debt. Having 
checked with Mortgage Express, it confirmed that it did not consent to us looking into any 
aspect of Mr Hs complaint that happened around the time of it taking possession of his 
property, including the issues listed above. Mortgage Express said Mr H made those 
complaints too late.
That meant, before I could consider the merits of any of the complaint points Mr H has 
made, I had to decide whether I have the power to do so. I wrote to both parties with my 
decision in that regard on 2 September 2022. I concluded that we only had the power to 
consider the merits of Mr Hs complaint about Mortgage Expresss pursuit of him for the 
balance outstanding.
I passed Mr Hs case back to our investigator to consider that part of his complaint. She 
found that Mortgage Express hasnt acted unreasonably or unfairly. She said shes satisfied 
Mr H took the mortgage and that Mortgage Express tried to search for him until 2018. She 
said the court order Mr H has referred to says nothing about him not being liable for the 
shortfall debt.
Mr H disagreed so his complaint has been referred back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says his debt would be limited by statute by now had Mortgage Express applied the 
default in 2008 rather than 2010. As confirmed in my decision about our jurisdiction, we 
dont have the power to consider Mortgage Expresss decision to take possession of Mr Hs 
property. That includes the timing of that decision. 
The Mortgage Conduct of Business (MCOB) rules say, if a lender decides to recover a sale 
shortfall, it must ensure that the borrower is notified within six years. But Mr Hs mortgage 
was unregulated, so the MCOB rules dont apply.
Instead, I can consider whether Mortgage Expresss pursuit of Mr H for the repayment of the 
debt was fair and reasonable, mindful of what might be considered good industry practice. 
So, thats what Ive thought about to decide Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H hasnt told us that he didnt take out a mortgage with Mortgage Express for the property 
it went on to take possession of and sell. Mortgage Express has provided copies of a 
mortgage application containing his details and a mortgage offer addressed to him from 
2007. Ive seen no reason to doubt that the mortgage in question was applied for by Mr H 
and used for the remortgage of the property in question.
Mr H hasnt claimed that he repaid the mortgage. Mortgage Express has provided a copy of 
a mortgage statement from 2009 showing a balance of approximately £105,000 and showing 
that no mortgage payments had been made over that 12 month period. A transaction list shows no payments were made since March 2008. And Mortgage Expresss contact notes 
show that receivers were appointed in September 2008 and the property was sold leaving a 
shortfall of approximately £51,000 in January 2010. So, while Im not able to consider 
whether those actions were reasonable or the amounts are correct, Im satisfied that there 
was a significant shortfall on Mr Hs mortgage from the sale of his property. 
Persuaded that its likely Mr H did take out the mortgage and that the sale of the property left 
a significant shortfall, Ive looked at what evidence is available to consider whether  
Mortgage Express has acted reasonably in its pursuit of Mr H for repayment.
Mortgage Expresss contact notes show that, in February 2011, it gained confirmation from 
the Crown Prosecution Service that it had no issues with the action we have taken. I 
understand that action to be the sale of Mr Hs property and using the proceeds to partially 
redeem his mortgage. From that time, the notes show that Mortgage Express had difficulty 
contacting Mr H and it tried intermittently, carrying out traces, until 2018 when a likely 
address was identified. A speculative home visit was arranged in January 2019, but the 
notes say Mr H was spoken to but declined to be interviewed. He was advised to contact 
the lender direct and agreed to do so.
Mortgage Express received a letter from Mr H on 22 January 2019 saying he did not 
acknowledge the debt and would not enter into further correspondence until hed settled 
another priority debt. The contact notes indicate that Mortgage Express wrote to Mr H to gain 
a copy of the court order relating to the other priority debt in July 2019. The notes suggest 
that if the court order said what Mr H had said it did, Mortgage Express would cease pursuit 
of Mr H. In August 2019 Mr H responded saying hed try to obtain a copy of the order from 
the court and provided Mortgage Express with a copy later that month.
For several months Mortgage Express gathered information on Mr Hs potential assets  his 
main residence  and considered the court order hed provided and in June 2020 decided it 
would proceed with its efforts to recover the debt. But it delayed litigation due to the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance in relation to the covid pandemic. Mortgage Express 
wrote to Mr H again on 5 July 2021. That letter confirmed the amount outstanding and asked 
Mr H to pay it or contact Mortgage Express to discuss income and expenditure with a view to 
agreeing a repayment plan.
Mr H responded on 11 August 2021, saying he was unhappy with being chased for the debt. 
Mortgage Express dealt with that as a complaint and issued a final response letter on         
15 September 2021. In that letter it said it was satisfied that it was still able to pursue the 
debt and Mr H should make contact to discuss it.
Having carefully considered its actions  as outlined above  I havent seen anything to 
make me think Mortgage Expresss pursuit of Mr H for repayment of the debt has been 
unreasonable. 
Ive seen that it did consider the court order Mr H drew to its attention and Ive seen that it 
sought legal guidance before proceeding and writing to Mr H on 5 July 2021. I think that 
Mortgage Express seeking legal guidance before acting upon it was a reasonable step to 
take with regard to the court order. Given the notes Ive seen, I think Mortgage Express 
would have ceased its pursuit of Mr H if the legal advice it received suggested that was the 
correct action.
In its letter to Mr H, dated 5 July 2021, Mortgage Express offered to set up a repayment plan 
should he not be able to repay the full amount outstanding. I also think that was reasonable 
as it would have appeared unlikely to Mortgage Express that Mr H would have been able to 
make the full repayment, given the amount owed.Overall, given the power I have and the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mortgage Express 
has acted unfairly in its pursuit of Mr H for repayment of the outstanding debt.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Mortgage Express.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman