DRN-3691035
The complaint
Mr D complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr D acquired a used car by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr D paid a deposit of £400 and was required to make 59 monthly repayments 
of around £250. The total repayable under the agreement was around £15,148.
Mr D says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit search, verifying Mr Ds 
income through a credit reference agency check and using statistical data to estimate his 
expenses. It says that while Mr D had previously defaulted on borrowing the most recent 
default was 13 months prior to application. It says he had no missed payments, county court 
judgements or insolvency information on his credit report.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr D didnt agree.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr D about his income. I say this because it asked about his 
employment and verified his income with a credit reference agency check. Based on this 
Mr D's monthly income was recorded as £2,022.
Moneybarn has explained that it carried out a credit check and used statistical data to 
calculate Mr Ds expenses. Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of its credit check but has 
noted that Mr D had some historic defaults. Given Mr D had experienced financial difficulties 
previously and noting the size and term of the agreement I think it would have been 
reasonable for Moneybarn to a have asked Mr D about his expenditure to ensure it had a 
clear understanding of his specific financial circumstances.
Ive considered what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mr D to provide us with evidence of his 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. While we have some details 
about his other accounts from the time Mr D hasnt provided further evidence such as bank 
statements or a credit file and so he hasnt given us enough information to fairly determine 
what proportionate checks would likely have shown Moneybarn. 
As Mr D hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Moneybarn ought to have known he would struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman