DRN-4070374
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society handled a fraud claim he raised poorly, 
causing him additional stress and inconvenience at a difficult time.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr C was the victim of fraud. He was drugged and his Nationwide 
account card was stolen, the fraudsters were also able to shoulder surf him when he was 
inputting his PIN on an ATM, and so were subsequently able to use his card for cash 
withdrawals and other payments.
When Mr C discovered what had happened, he contacted Nationwide to raise a fraud claim. 
Mr C feels that Nationwide did not properly investigate his claim, dragging out the process 
and causing him additional upset. He also feels that the payments should have been flagged 
by Nationwide as suspicious, potentially stopping some of them from happening. Mr C has 
also noted that he feels he was given incorrect information about the transactions by 
Nationwide and that he was promised a call back that didnt happen. 
Ultimately Nationwide did refund the disputed payments to Mr C, on 8 November 2022, but 
Mr C remains unhappy with his overall experience here. So he asked us to look into his 
complaint.
One of our Investigators considered what had happened, but they felt that Nationwide had 
treated Mr C fairly. They didnt feel that Nationwide had handled the fraud investigation 
poorly, or that it had otherwise provided a poor service to Mr C, so they didnt think 
Nationwide needed to do any more than it had already done  refunding the disputed 
payments.
Mr C disagreed, he maintains that he was given incorrect information and false promises in 
the conversations he had with Nationwide. And he feels that the payments in dispute here 
were suspicious enough that Nationwide could and should have done more to stop them.
As no agreement could be reached, this case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, Ill explain why.
Firstly, while I understand why Mr C feels these payments should have been flagged as 
suspicious by Nationwide, Im satisfied that Nationwide acted reasonably in allowing them to 
be made. The payments were made using Mr Cs legitimate card and PIN, and were not to 
notably unusual or suspicious retailers. And while I understand they Mr C feels they were for 
large amounts in the context of cash withdrawals, in the wider picture of the transactions 
Nationwide deals with every day, I dont consider there was enough here to suggest that 
they were suspicious or otherwise needed further verification.
When Mr C raised his claim with Nationwide he has said that the funds should have been 
returned to him straight away, but the terms of his account make provision for Nationwide 
not to refund disputed payments if it has reason to believe that they were authorised by the 
account holder. And given that it was aware the payments had been made with Mr Cs 
legitimate card and PIN, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide not to refund the 
payments until it had carried out further investigations.
I acknowledge that it did then take around 6 weeks for Nationwide to conclude that 
investigation and refund the payments. Mr C says that he was clear from the start what had 
happened to him, but that Nationwide did not pursue contact with the police to verify exactly 
what had happened and so prove that a fraud had taken place. I can understand why Mr C 
feels the way he does, and I can see that he arranged for a police officer to speak with 
Nationwide on 25 October 2022. But written confirmation of the fraud that was perpetrated 
on Mr C was only sent to Nationwide by the police on 7 November 2022, and the disputed 
amounts were refunded to him the next day. I can understand why Mr C feels this process 
took too long, but I can also see why Nationwide would want to ensure it had appropriate 
evidence to show that a fraud had taken place. 
I also acknowledge that in calls with Nationwide Mr C was left expecting a call back which 
did not come, and that he was given some confusing information about which payments 
were cash withdrawals. I can understand why this caused him frustration, but I think the 
issue regarding the call back was a misunderstanding. And while I agree that the individual 
he spoke to did incorrectly identify some payments as withdrawals, they correctly identified 
the locations of all the relevant payments, and this is the information that was needed for the 
police investigation, so I cant agree that any confusing information has impacted what 
happened.
So, while there were some minor issues in the service Nationwide provided here, I feel that 
in general it dealt with Mr C fairly and reasonably, and I dont consider that any minor failures 
in the service it provided merit compensation. I say this because while I dont doubt that the 
whole situation has been extremely distressing and upsetting for Mr C, it is not Nationwide 
that perpetrated this fraud on him. And when dealing with these kinds of incidents there is 
always going to be a level of frustration and inconvenience, but I dont think that means that 
Nationwide has, overall, acted unfairly here. 
Mr C has been reimbursed for the fraudulent payments, and while I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr C, I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman