DRN-3029062
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 2009. 
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here. As 
well as a condition in childhood, Mr T has told us of a health issue he missed two weeks 
work with around four years before the sale and another that kept him off work for a month 
around three years before the sale.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but thought Halifaxs offer, to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs T paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr and Mrs T have said the PPI was just included with their mortgage. But the policy was 
arranged many years after their mortgage had started. So I dont think it was included 
with their mortgage. I think it more likely Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs T didnt have to 
take the PPI and they chose to take it.
I dont have all the paperwork completed at the sales meeting, but the policy welcome 
letter, sent to Mr T shortly afterwards, refers to him as choosing the optional mortgage 
repayments cover. A demands and needs statement also set out in separate columns 
the cover Halifax had recommended and the cover Mr and Mrs T had selected. In my 
view all this points to the PPI as having been presented at the meeting as optional. Also, 
what we know of how Halifax sold PPI like this in its branches makes me think it likely 
the cover was presented at the meeting as optional.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T, so it had to check the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time, shows the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, the cover was 
affordable, Mr T was eligible for it, nothing about his employment or occupation wouldve 
made it difficult for Mr and Mrs T to claim and what theyve told us about how long Mr Ts 
work benefits wouldve lasted makes me think that, although he had some cover from his 
work, they still had a need for cover in case he was unable to work for a longer time due 
to disability or unemployment. Also, Mr T was the sole wage earner at the time.
The policy excluded disability claims relating to any chronic condition Mr T shouldve 
known of at the start and, unless hed been symptom and treatment free for two years 
before the claim, excluded disability claims relating to any health issue he shouldve 
known of at the start or had seen or arranged to see a doctor for in the year before the 
start. It also limited back pain claims to three months in many situations and had more 
onerous evidential requirements for it in other situations. So, Mr T might not have been 
able to claim if the past health issues hes told us about kept him off work. But taking into 
account all hes told us about these issues, including when they took place, and taking 
into account what Mr T was still covered for and the value of that cover in Mr and Mrs Ts 
particular circumstances, on balance what I have makes me think Halifax wasnt wrong 
to still recommend the cover to Mr and Mrs T, despite these exclusions and limitations. 
While there were also limitations or exclusions on claims relating to mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So I think they wouldve still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found they chose to take it, and I dont think they wouldve 
done without at least a broad idea of what it covered - so it looks to me like they wanted 
this type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for them, as I concluded above, and it seems like it 
wouldve been useful for them if something went wrong in the circumstances it covered. 
Overall, I think the cover was sufficiently similar to what its likely Mr and Mrs T thought 
they were buying from the information its likely they were given. With this and all Ive 
said above in mind, on balance I dont think Mr and Mrs T wouldve declined the cover 
had Halifax done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs T wouldve still taken the PPI. Given their circumstances at 
the time, it couldve provided a useful benefit at what could be a difficult a time were Mr T to 
have lost his job or become too sick to work. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its 
likely Mr and Mrs T thought they were getting. And, in those circumstances, I think they 
wouldve taken the policy in any event.Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value 
because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low 
claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ts particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs T about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mr and Mrs T was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Halifax didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipI dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs T, because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary it has said Mr and Mrs T should get back all the money they paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mr and Mrs T about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because it says that 
meant the policy was poor value, it says I should find that Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have taken 
the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a refund of 
all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs T in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased the policy. So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ts representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above;I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs T paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves 
Mr and Mrs T with the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken if Halifax had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr and Mrs T an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) - if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman