DRN-4145666
The complaint
Mrs O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, wont refund the money 
she lost as a result of an investment scam. Shes being supported by a representative. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Mrs O throughout this decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties, so I wont repeat all the details 
here. 
In summary, Mrs O says she was introduced to the scammer by her neighbour and that the 
scammer told her she could make enough money to buy her dream kitchen and replace her 
car, if she invested in cryptocurrency, as instructed, through a company called Group 500. 
She says the scammer took control of her computer and guided her through the process of 
setting up a new sole account with First Direct and a separate account with a cryptocurrency 
exchange (Payward), through which funds would be sent from her sole account to Group 
500. The payments Ive considered as part of this complaint are as follows:
Date Payee Amount Payment details
106-Sep-21 Payward £5,000 Faster payment 
222-Sep-21 Payward -£457.70 Withdrawal 
324-Sep-21 Payward £10,000 Faster payment 
Mrs O says she realised shed been scammed when she was unable to withdraw funds and 
was instead being asked to invest more. She reported the scam to First Direct in October 
2021. A complaint was raised and later referred to the Financial Ombudsman in December 
2022.
Our Investigator reviewed Mrs Os complaint and upheld it. She concluded that the first 
payment ought to have appeared as suspicious and First Direct should have done more to 
intervene, but that Mrs O should bear equal responsibility for her losses as she hadnt 
carried out any due diligence. She recommended a refund of 50% of the total loss with 
interest on the balance of the first payment at the savings rate from which those funds 
originated, and at 8% simple on the balance of the second payment. First Direct accepted 
that outcome, but Mrs O did not. The matter has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the Investigator and for the following 
reasons.
Authorisation 
Its common ground Mrs O was the victim of a scam and Im sorry to hear about the money 
shes lost. I realise this whole experience has been very upsetting for her. Its also not in 
dispute that she authorised the payments she made to Payward (before they were sent to 
the scammer) and, in general, the starting position is that shes presumed liable for those 
losses in the first instance. That is the case even though I fully appreciate Mrs O had no 
intention of sending her money to a scammer. 
Intervention
There are, however, some situations where I consider that a bank, taking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practice, should reasonably have taken a closer look at the 
circumstances of a payment if, for example, its particularly out of character.
In this respect, I note that the first payment of £5,000 was unusual enough to have triggered 
an alert at First Direct and a text message was sent to Mrs O asking for confirmation that the 
payment was genuine. Ive seen insufficient evidence to conclude that a call also took place 
at that point. But, on balance, given that this was a large payment from a newly opened 
account, which was drained to send money to a cryptocurrency exchange for the purpose of 
paying bills, I dont consider a text message alone to have been proportionate in light of the 
unusual and suspicious circumstances, which ought to have reasonably indicated that Mrs O 
was at risk of financial harm. Therefore, I think that First Direct should have intervened more 
effectively and spoken to Mrs O directly about the nature of that transaction. 
I also consider that if First Direct had spoken to Mrs O and asked probing questions about 
the circumstances of the payment, then its likely the scam would have been unravelled. I 
think Mrs O would have likely listened to a warning from her bank about what her situation 
looked like  and, on balance, I think that off the back of some research into Group 500 and 
scams in general, shed have seen that something wasnt quite right, shed have recognised 
she was at risk  and neither of the payments would have subsequently been made. 
I can see, for example, that a warning from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had been 
published at the time to say Group 500 was targeting people in the UK and that there was a 
lack of protection on the basis of it being unauthorised. There were also negative reviews on 
Trustpilot of others whod been scammed, describing similar experiences as the one Mrs O 
went through. As a result, Im satisfied that First Directs failure to intervene has caused Mrs 
Os loss here, such that it would be fair and reasonable for it to refund the payments.  
Contributory negligence 
The concept of contributory negligence centres around whether a consumer should have 
done something to mitigate their losses or should share some responsibility for them. 
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Os comments that she was introduced to the scammer by 
her friend (and neighbour) whom she trusted and whose investment had tripled in previous 
months. I appreciate she may have found the prospect of significant returns appealing, that 
the scammer was convincing, and that the payment she received on 22 September 2021 
reassured her the investment was genuine. But I think its also fair to say that Mrs O was 
sending a significant amount of money to someone shed never met, whom her neighbour 
had found on social media, and to a company she knew little about. In the circumstances, 
and given the sums involved, Id reasonably have expected Mrs O to carry out some of her 
own due diligence into the investment and, on balance, Im not persuaded that she did. 
Ive already mentioned above that if Mrs O had carried out a search for Group 500 shed 
have likely seen the warning from the FCA and the negative reviews on Trustpilot. In my view, and even if some positive reviews may have since been deleted, there was still enough 
information readily available at the time which should have alerted Mrs O as to the legitimacy 
of the investment. I agree therefore that she should reasonably share equal responsibility for 
her losses in these circumstances.
Post-scam events 
The scam was reported to First Direct in October 2021 and, given the money had been sent 
to Mrs Os own Payward account and then used to buy cryptocurrency, there was very little 
First Direct could have done to facilitate the recovery of the funds by that time.
But I agree that the calls Mrs O made to First Direct to report the scam, both in 2021 and 
2022, should have been better handled. In the first call, Mrs O explained shed been 
scammed and asked if she should speak to the fraud team. In response, she was told that 
the matter couldnt be treated as a scam and she needed to contact the Citizens Advice 
Bureau instead. In the second call, Mrs O once again explained she wanted to speak to the 
fraud team to report a scam. Its disappointing First Direct again failed to take this forward. 
Before issuing this decision, I let both parties to the complaint know that I intended to award 
£150 to Mrs O for the poor service she received from First Direct when she tried to report the 
scam and for the additional distress and inconvenience this caused. First Direct responded 
to say it would agree to make that payment. Mrs O hasnt replied. In the circumstances, I see 
no reason to change the award of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold the complaint and I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc, 
trading as First Direct, to: 
Pay Mrs O, 50% of the total loss, taking into account the credit she received.
Pay Mrs O, interest on the balance of the first payment at the savings rate of the 
account from which that payment originated, and 8% simple interest on the balance 
of the second payment. Interest should be calculated from the date of payments to 
the date of settlement (if HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Mrs O 
with the appropriate tax deduction certificate).
Pay Mrs O, £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Thomas Cardia
Ombudsman