DRN-4187852
The complaint
A partnership which I will refer to as K, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
didnt do enough to prevent their loss as a result of a scam. In particular, they say that the 
bank shouldnt have allowed a scammer to open an account with it.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, in February 2021, K made a payment of about £4,300 on an invoice which they 
believed was from one of their service providers. Unfortunately, unknown to them the invoice 
had been intercepted by a fraudster who had changed the payment details. As a result, the 
payment went to an account with RBS. The scam came to light when the person to whom 
the payment was to be made contacted K for not receiving the payment. 
K informed their bank of the scam who in turn contacted RBS, but unfortunately by that time 
only a small amount remained the recipients account, which was returned to K by RBS. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. They didnt think that Ks loss was caused 
by any act or omission by RBS - either when the recipients account was opened or 
subsequently when the funds were received or when responding to notification of fraud. So, 
they didnt think RBS had to compensate K for the loss. K did not agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. 
K has been the innocent victim here. So, I can see why they consider that RBS could have 
done more to help them. 
However, from what I can see, there wasnt anything particularly suspicious about the 
customers identity when the account was opened. It did later turn out that the customer was 
involved in a scam, but there isnt anything to suggest that RBS could reasonably have 
foreseen when the account was opened, that it would later be used to receive fraudulent 
credit. 
Further, having looked through the account activity since the account was opened, I cant 
say that Ks payment stood out as unusual or suspicious for the bank to have intervened. So, 
I cant fairly conclude that RBS missed an opportunity here to prevent Ks loss.
Finally, by the time RBS was notified of the scam, their customer had already removed most 
of the money from their account. So, there wasnt much the bank could do to prevent Ks 
loss. Nevertheless, I can see that the bank blocked the account as soon as it was advised of 
the scam, recovered what was available on the account, and following its investigation went 
on to close the account.
I am sorry to have to disappoint K. But I can only make an award against a bank if that bank 
has done something wrong, which has led to a loss. In this case, from what Ive seen there 
hasnt been a failing by RBS which has resulted in Ks loss. And as such I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask it to refund their loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman