DRN-3636736
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed funds he sent to a scam investment 
firm. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted in this case that Mr S has been the victim of an investment scam. This case 
concerns two payments, one made on a credit card early on in the scam and a second, 
international payment sent much later in the scam. Mr S became involved in this investment 
in January 2020 and sent his first payment in February 2020. 
The credit card payment was for a very low value and didnt go direct to the scam firm. So I 
see no reason that Lloyds shouldve intervened when this payment was made.
However Im satisfied the international payment was unusual for Mr Ss account and so 
Lloyds shouldve contacted him about it. Ive thought about how this call wouldve gone and 
whether this wouldve meant the scam was uncovered.
By the time Mr S sent the international payment hed been dealing with the scam firm for 
nearly a year. Hed also been able to make a large withdrawal from the investment (nearly 
£9,000) the month before he sent this payment. His representative has explained this gave 
Mr S unwavering faith in the scammers and meant he was convinced it was a legitimate 
investment.
Considering how long hed been investing, and the extremely large withdrawal Mr S had 
just made, Im not convinced Lloyds wouldve been able to unravel this scam with an 
intervention call.
Its clear Mr S was very convinced this was a genuine venture and fully under the spell of the 
scam. And, as his representative has pointed out, a withdrawal of this size doesnt have the 
hallmarks of what wed expect to see for a scam investment. Mr S had also sent large 
payments from other accounts and then received this sum back without difficulty. So I dont 
think, at this late stage in this scam, a call from Lloyds wouldve made him doubt the 
legitimacy of the investment. Even if Lloyds had suggested he do further research, I dont 
think he wouldve felt the need to stop the payment. So I dont consider Lloyds failure to 
intervene and call Mr S changes the outcome here. 
In terms of recovering the payments, Mr S was out of time to raise a chargeback claim for 
the credit card payment. Mr S didnt realise hed been the victim of a scam until over a year 
after hed sent this payment, so I cant say Lloyds was wrong to re-debit the funds and not to 
try and pursue this further. I also note that he had received a considerable amount more 
than hed paid by credit card back from the scammers by this time too. I can see that Lloyds 
responded to Mr S on why a Section 75 claim wasnt successful, but this claim was dealt 
with after the final response we received for this case.
Lloyds did contact the beneficiary bank for the international payment, but it wasnt able to 
recover any funds for Mr S. So there isnt any money to return to him in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman