DRN-1724601
The complaint
Miss L complains about how Bank of Scotland plc handled the administration of her loan.
What happened
In 2012 Miss L took out two loans with Bank of Scotland in order to fund the move of 
premises for her company. In the years following this she had a number of problems with the 
new premises. She felt it hadnt been fit to move into and thought Bank of Scotland should 
have picked this up when it carried out a survey before agreeing the loan. In 2015 she made 
a complaint to Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold the complaint and she brought it to this service. In 2016 an 
ombudsman here made a final decision on the complaint and also didnt uphold it. 
Since then Miss L has made a number of other complaints to Bank of Scotland in relation to 
the loan accounts and connected issues. Most recently she complained that the interest rate 
it offered her wasnt as originally agreed. She also complained that it hadnt provided her 
with interest statements when she had asked, and information relating to the loan had been 
lost. 
Bank of Scotland responded and offered £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused by not supplying the certificates earlier and for the information it 
lost. Miss L wasnt happy with Bank of Scotlands response and brought them to this service.
Our investigator considered her complaint points but said we wouldnt be able to consider all 
her complaints as too much time had now passed. He said we could only look at the interest 
statements and the information that had been lost. And he thought Bank of Scotland had 
done enough in relation to these. 
Miss L didnt agree with this, she said the point about the interest rates should be in our 
jurisdiction as we had considered it as part of her previous complaint. She said she now had 
new evidence that hadnt been considered as part of that complaint as it hadnt been 
available. She asked for her complaint points to be considered by an ombudsman.
Since the complaint has come to me, I have explained to Miss L why I believe her complaint 
about the interest charged on the loan is out of our jurisdiction. So I will only consider the 
remaining complaint points in this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From looking at the correspondence regarding the loans Miss L took out in 2012, I can see 
that it has been a particularly difficult time for her. And I can see that she has experienced a 
number of problems relating to the loans. As explained previously, I can only consider 
complaints that havent been looked at by this service as part of her previous complaint. And 
that have been brought to us within the required time frames as laid out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
The complaints I have reviewed as part of this decision are therefore as follows:
Miss L is unhappy that Bank of Scotland hadnt provided her certificates of interest for 
her loans with it. She said the information she had been provided with wasnt clear. 
Miss L is unhappy that some information and correspondence was lost as it was stored 
on a laptop that broke.
It is the role of this service to consider whether Bank of Scotland has got something wrong. 
And where we find it has, if it has done enough to put things right and treated Miss L fairly 
and reasonably. 
In considering the certificates of interest, I can see that Bank of Scotland did get something 
wrong. It should have provided clear statements. Particularly when these were first 
requested. Miss L has previously raised a complaint about the amount of interest she has 
been charged on the loans as she was concerned this hadnt been correct. So I understand 
why she would want these certificates.
However I can see that since Miss L has complained to Bank of Scotland, it has provide the 
certificates. Further it has offered £150 compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. So although I appreciate that Miss L would have wanted the 
certificates and they should have been provided sooner, I am pleased to hear that they have 
now been provided further I think £150 compensation is sufficient to make up for the distress 
caused and is in line with what I would have recommended.  
I have also considered Miss Ls comments about the information that was lost, following a 
broken hard drive on the laptop of a staff member at Bank of Scotland. Although I 
understand this would be frustrating for Miss L to learn, I dont think Bank of Scotlad has 
done anything wrong here. It is reasonable for employees to use laptops as part of their 
work, and unfortunately sometimes technology does let us down. Bank of Scotland has said 
that it was largely emails that were lost. And the documentation signed by Miss L  which 
has been the subject of previous complaints  wouldnt have been included in this. So 
although I appreciate it would be frustrating to learn that some information was lost on the 
laptop, I dont think this is due to an error by Bank of Scotland. And I dont think the 
information lost impacted Miss Ls ability to bring a complaint. So I wont ask it to do anything 
further in relation to this. 
For these reasons I am satisfied that Bank of Scotland has done enough to put things right 
for Miss L. So I wont requite Bank of Scotland to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman