DRN-4361849
The complaint
Mr I complains about the service he received from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) when it incorrectly applied late payment markers to his credit file. He says 
it caused him to fail a credit search.
What happened
Mr I entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS in March 2019. He says it incorrectly 
reported late payments on his credit file, and it didnt correct this mistake as quickly as it said 
it would. Mr I told us:
In March 2022, with one year left on his hire purchase agreement, he approached a 
local dealership to discuss a part-exchange, and was advised he had a significant 
level of equity in his current car that could be used towards the purchase of a new 
one;
he was unable to proceed with his plans because the dealership was told hed failed 
a credit search;
he was shocked  hed been accepted for credit by MBFS in March 2019, and hed 
not missed a payment since;
MBFS wrote to him to explain it had wrongly reported that hed missed some monthly 
payments, and this had affected his credit file;
MBFS said it had corrected his credit file in November 2022, but that when he 
checked this in January 2023, no corrections or amendments had been made;
after a number of communications with MBFS, it apologised for the mistake, and it 
confirmed that the corrections had now been made.
Mr I says the corrections to his credit file were not made in a timely manner, and while his 
credit file was wrongly impaired, he was unable to access credit generally and he couldnt 
acquire another car. He says he also missed out on the opportunity to use the equity in his 
car towards another vehicle  he simply returned it at the end of the agreement. And he had 
to borrow cars from friends and family until the time the corrections were made to his file.
MBFS upheld this complaint. It said it had experienced some teething problems with a new 
payment system, with the result that some of Mr Is payments in 2022 - March, April, May, 
and June - were incorrectly marked as late payments. It acknowledged it hadnt provided 
the seamless service we would have wished to and it offered Mr I £200 in recognition of 
this.
MBFS said Mr I had asked it to reconsider the level of compensation. It said it had reviewed 
the offer again and increased the level of compensation to £500. MBFS told us that Mr I had 
accepted this increased offer and £500 was paid to him in April 2023.
Mr I didnt think this was fair and reasonable. He said although MBFS had given him £500, 
he thought it should do more, so he brought his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he thought £500 compensation was fair in 
the circumstances. 
Mr I disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken everything into consideration, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, and Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Is worry and disappointment  he was told about some incorrect 
reporting on his credit file caused by MBFS, and it wasnt corrected as quickly as it shouldve 
been. And I empathise with him when he talks about the impact this error may have had on 
his ability to access credit generally.
But I also have to take into consideration that MBFS has apologised for its failings; its 
corrected Mr Is credit file; and its paid £500 in recognition of the poor service it provided  
compensation that Mr I accepted in response to his initial complaint. And Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr I was declined finance solely because of this mistake.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr I told us concerning the equity he had in the car  he 
says when he first made enquiries with the dealership, he had in excess of £5,000 available 
due to the prevailing market conditions for used cars, and this sum was greater than the 
outstanding finance on the car. 
Mr I says he missed out on the opportunity to use this equity because just one year later, at 
the end of the term of his agreement, he was forced to return the car. But Im satisfied that 
with the knowledge that his car was worth more than the outstanding finance on it, Mr I 
couldve made arrangements to sell the car privately rather than handing it back to MBFS at 
the end of the four-year term. That was a decision he chose to make, and I cant hold MBFS 
liable for it.
Taking all this into consideration, Im satisfied that £500 compensation is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint, and Im not going to ask Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to do anything more.
I know Mr I will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive reached the conclusion that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman