DRN-4284164
The complaint
Miss N has complained Santander UK plc wont refund money she lost from her account 
after being the victim of an investment scam.
What happened
In 2020 Miss N took the decision to carry out some further cryptocurrency investment. She 
found a company who were willing to offer her advice. This included setting up a wallet 
overseas. Over a four-month period in late 2020, Miss N sent £23,710 from her Santander 
account to this wallet.
Miss N had already invested in cryptocurrency previously so considered herself reasonably 
savvy. So she was extremely upset and emotionally set back when she discovered this had 
been a scam and she could no longer access her funds.
In 2023 Miss N complained to Santander that theyd done little to protect her from this scam. 
Santander didnt believe they should refund her as they felt every payment shed made 
would have meant she could have seen an appropriate warning.
As Miss N felt the fact she was making overseas payments should have alerted Santander, 
she brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt it was difficult to see what loss Miss N had undergone. He noted more 
than £26,500 worth of credits had been received by Miss N from a similar type of wallet as 
the one she was complaining about. Miss N was unable to demonstrate what credits those 
payments related to. He didnt believe it would be fair to ask Santander to refund Miss N.
Still dissatisfied, Miss N asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
I dont dispute Miss N was scammed and has lost a considerable amount of. She has my 
sympathy about what she has gone through.
Miss N made and authorised the payments. Miss N believed she was making financial 
investments in cryptocurrency. 
Im satisfied those transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs).
Its also accepted that Santander has an obligation to follow Miss Ns instructions. So in the 
first instance Miss N is presumed liable for her loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Santander 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Miss N fell victim to an investment scam. These unfortunately arent particularly unusual and 
are invidious in the way those carrying out the scam inveigle themselves into someones 
trust. 
It is clear from the testimony Ive seen from Miss N that she firmly believed she was making 
genuine investments. Miss N has been unable to provide us with any evidence of 
conversations or emails between herself and the scammers. Despite further questions shes 
also not been able to identify the payments she made to her own wallet which resulted in the 
credits received into her Santander account.
Santander has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions. 
However these transactions didnt register as specifically unusual. 
If as Miss N has told us, shed invested in cryptocurrency previously, and I can see the 
credits into her Santander account, I dont think theres any likelihood that those initial 
payments must also have been made from her Santander account.
This means, I believe, that Miss Ns usual pattern of payments included payments to an 
overseas wallet. So Santander wouldnt have intervened and issued additional warnings as 
she was making those payments. 
However Miss N used her mobile app to make these payments. At the time she made each 
payment, Miss N would have been asked what kind of payment she was making. 
Santanders records show Miss N confirmed she was making payments to her own account 
(rather than say she was making an investment). This resulted in Miss N being presented 
with warnings about safe account scams before then confirming she wished the payments to 
proceed. I can see why Miss N ignored these as she felt these warnings werent relevant to 
her circumstances, but I rather think that even if shed chosen the investment option and 
received a warning about investment scams, shed still have proceeded.
I can see from the limited evidence Miss N presented to us that she emailed the scammers 
later on about her tax position. This suggests to me that even at this stage, she was 
convinced she was involved in something genuine.This means that whatever further actions Santander may have taken would have meant 
Miss N ignoring them.
Overall I think theres enough evidence to suggest Santander took the appropriate steps to 
probe what was going on here. Whilst a bank is always in a better place than an individual 
customer to appreciate the complexity of scams, as stated earlier, it is also accepted a 
banks required to follow its customers instruction. 
I have considered, in the light of Santanders knowledge, whether they should have stopped 
Miss N from making payments at all. But I dont believe they acted improperly here.
I would also confirm that I note Miss N has argued that the large value of credits she 
received related to other investments. Ive taken what shes said at face value despite her 
being unable to provide further evidence of the money she paid out.
Overall I cant fairly tell Santander to refund Miss Ns money.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Ns complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman