DRN-3868585
The complaint
Miss C complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) gave 
her loans which she couldnt afford to repay.   
What happened
Miss C was granted five loans from Lending Stream between August 2018 and 
December 2018. A summary of her borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment 
per loan
1 £100.00 09/08/2018 24/08/2018 6 £28.79
2 £500.00 25/08/2018 26/10/2018 6 £171.26
3 £250.00 10/10/2018 26/10/2018 6 £77.07
4 £710.00 26/10/2018 sold 6 £241.68
5 £60.00 13/12/2018 18/12/2018 6 £18.13
Lending Stream says Miss C had some problems repaying loan 4, and it say the balance 
has been sold to a third-party collection agency. 
Lending Stream considered Miss Cs complaint and issued its final response letter (FRL). 
Lending Stream said looking at the information Miss C declared to it about her income and 
expenditure for loans 1  4 it concluded she had enough disposable income to afford the 
loan repayments. However, in relation to loan 5 it said:
 we have thought about the number of loans and the time between each loan 
being taken out. We can see that it might not have been a good idea for us to make 
these loans.
So, we are partially agreeing to your complaint.
Lending Stream then proposed to pay the following compensation  in total, it said Miss C 
was due a refund of £3.49 (after adding 8% simple interest and deducting tax) in relation to 
loan 5. It also said it would remove negative markers from Miss Cs credit file in relation to 
loan 5. 
Miss C didnt accept the offer and instead referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. The adjudicator didnt consider loan 5 
because Lending Stream had already accepted it shouldnt have been granted. The 
adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint about the remaining loans because she 
considered Lending Stream had carried out proportionate checks before it granted loans 1 - 
3. And the information suggested these loans were affordable. 
However, the adjudicator did conclude that by the time of loan 4, Lending Stream ought to 
have been verifying the information Miss C had provided. The adjudicator reviewed 
Miss Cs bank statements and credit file which she had provided and concluded that even if 
Lending Stream had carried out better checks it still wouldve thought the loan was 
affordable and sustainable for Miss C, so the adjudicator didnt uphold loan 4 either. 
Lending Stream acknowledged the adjudicators assessment and explained it had nothing 
further to add. 
Miss C didnt agree with the outcome that was reached and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint because at the same time as borrowing from Lending Stream, she also 
had an open-ended credit facility that she was having to repay as well. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Miss C could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have taken into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss C. These factors 
include:
Miss C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss C. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay the loans 
 not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that 
Miss C was able to repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is 
the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Cs complaint.
Loans 1  3
These were the first loans approved for Miss C, and at times, she had more than one loan 
running at the same time. This led to a largest monthly repayment, due to Lending Stream, 
of around £248 per month.  
For all of these loans, Lending Stream carried out the same sort of checks. To begin with, it 
asked for information about Miss Cs income and expenditure. The summary spreadsheet 
provided by Lending Stream as well as the application data shows, Miss C told it she 
received a monthly income of £1,580 for these loans.  
For loans 1 and 2 Miss C declared monthly outgoings of £1,000 and for loan 3 she declared 
outgoings of £900. Lending Stream also says it considered these figures and where 
necessary it made adjustments to increase Miss Cs monthly expenditure. 
Following these checks, Lending Stream concluded Miss C had monthly disposable income 
of between £580 and £680 before the loan repayments were taken. This was more than 
sufficient for Lending Stream to believe that Miss C could afford the monthly repayments she 
was committed to making. 
It is worth saying here that although Lending Stream carried out a credit search with a 
particular credit reference agency, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely possible that the information 
Lending Stream received may not entirely reflect the information Miss C may be able to view 
in her credit report. There could be for a number of reasons for this, such as Lending Stream 
only asking for certain pieces of information.
But what Lending Stream couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to 
the information it received.  
Ive considered the summary of the results Lending Stream has provided. Having reviewed 
them, for each credit check Lending Stream was on notice that Miss C already had nine 
active credit accounts  but it didnt know the details of what they were for example they 
couldve been bank accounts, loans, credit cards and / or store cards. 
In addition, Lending Stream knew that Miss C had defaulted on five previous credit accounts 
 which is a significant number. However, the most recent of the defaults was added to her 
credit file 14 months before loan one was granted. 
I accept that this is a significant number of defaults but given the time that has passed since 
the most recent default had been applied, I think it was just about reasonable for 
Lending Stream to have approved these loans. 
Therefore, I think it was just about reasonable for Lending Stream to have approved these 
loans, because I think it wouldve been realistic for it to believe that any repayments 
problems Miss C had, were historic in nature, because there wasnt anything, as far as I can 
see that suggested she was having current financial difficulties. It would not have been proportionate or reasonable for Lending Stream to have reviewed 
Miss Cs bank statements. After all, the loans were for modest sums, and it was the start of 
the lending chain. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream to have relied on the information Miss C provided along with the credit 
check summary to show she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments she 
was committed to making. 
There also wasnt anything else in the information to suggest that Miss C was having 
financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for her. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss Cs complaint about loans 1  3. 
Loan 4
Loan 4 was approved on the same day loans 2 and 3 were repaid and looking at the 
statement of account it would seem that Miss C used some of the money she received from 
loan 4, in order to ensure these earlier loans were repaid. 
Miss C was also taking her largest capital loan to date which had the largest singular 
repayment. These are factors that Ive considered when thinking about the checks 
Lending Stream carried out before this loan was approved. 
Lending Stream carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it had done for loans 1  
3. Miss C declared a monthly income of £1,580 with outgoings of £850. So, 
Lending Stream, based solely on this information, couldve reasonably concluded the loan 
was affordable for Miss C. 
A credit search was also carried out by Lending Stream, this time it used a different credit 
reference agency. The results that it received were similar to the first three loans. It was on 
notice that Miss C had historically defaulted on a number of accounts. But taking account of 
what Lending Stream was told, it was reasonable of it to believe this loan could be repaid. 
However, taking account of the consecutive nature of the borrowing, using this loan to repay 
previous loans and this being the largest capital loan to date ought to have led 
Lending Stream to consider whether it knew enough about Miss Cs finances. 
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to have relied on what Miss C 
declared to it about her income and expenditure even though this information suggested 
Miss C could afford these loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Cs actual financial position to 
ensure the loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for 
evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Miss Cs full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other 
information that Lending Stream mightve needed to consider about Miss Cs.
Miss C has been able to provide both her bank statements from around the time this loan 
was approved as well has her credit file. Ive considered these, but even if Lending Stream 
wouldve viewed her bank statements, I still think it wouldve concluded that 
Miss C would be in a position to afford the loan repayments. Ive explained why below. Had Lending Stream reviewed Miss Cs bank statements it wouldve seen her monthly 
income was greater than she had declared. The figure she declared for her salary income 
was correct, but Miss C also received at least £1,200 a month in benefits, and
Lending Stream couldve taken the benefit payments into account when considering the 
affordability of the loan.
Looking at the bank statements there isnt any evidence that Miss C was borrowing form a 
number of other payday lenders at the time. I can see what appears to be one personal loan 
payment of £155 per month. 
While Miss Cs outgoings do appear to be greater than the amount she declared to 
Lending Stream, I do think, had Lending Stream seen the same bank statements that I have 
reviewed than it wouldve likely concluded Miss C could afford her repayments. 
Ive thought about what Miss C says about using the flexible credit facility she said she had 
at the time but I cant see either payments or credits to it in either September or October 
2018. So, I dont think Lending Stream wouldve been aware of this product at the time 
following a review of her bank statements. 
In addition, looking at the Miss Cs credit file, the information I can see about defaults 
supports the information Lending Stream received as part of its checks  as the credit file 
shows a number of defaults recorded in 2016 and 2017. However, in my view, had 
Lending Stream reviewed Miss Cs full credit file I dont think Lending Stream wouldve made 
a different decision. 
As I dont think better checks by Lending Stream wouldve led it to decline this loan, I am 
therefore not upholding Miss Cs complaint about this loan either. 
Loan 5 
Lending Stream has already conceded this loan ought not to have been advanced and it has 
made an offer of compensation to put things right. The offer of compensation appears to be 
in line with what the Financial Ombudsman Service may have awarded had it been decided 
this loan shouldnt have been granted. 
As this is the case, then there is no need for me to consider the loan about whether a fair 
lending decision was made. I would say, Lending Stream s offer to settle the loan is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So, I say no more about it.
But I have repeated below, for completeness this offer.  
Putting things right
In order to settle the complaint, Lending Stream should do what it has already agreed to do 
in the final response letter. 
A. Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss C 
towards interest, fees and charges on loan 5.
B. Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Miss C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date 
Miss C originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Lending Stream should pay Miss C the total of A and B. D. Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit 
file in relation to loan 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to deduct tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream should give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint about loans 1  4.
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Lending Stream has already made an offer, to 
settle the complaint about loan 5, as outlined in the final response letter (and repeated 
above) and I think this offer is fair in all of the circumstances of the complaint. 
So, Gain Credit LLC should pay this offer to Miss C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman