DRN-3450369
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr M applied for and received, a credit card from AESEL. It initially had a credit 
limit of £3,000. According to his credit file, this limit has varied over the intervening period 
reaching £10,000 in May 2020 and gradually reducing back to £3,000 by November 2021. 
Mr M says he could never afford to repay the credit given to him. He complained to AESEL 
saying if it had done proper checks on his application, it ought to have refused to lend to him. 
AESEL looked into his complaint and rejected it. It said it had performed essential 
application checks and had been unable to establish an error on our part. AESEL said 
Mr M could refer his complaint to our service. 
Mr M was unhappy with AESELs response and referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He felt AESEL should have refused to lend to Mr M and 
explained why to both parties. He told AESEL how he felt it should put things right. 
Mr M accepted what our investigator said, but AESEL didnt respond. As there was no 
agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable lending on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
AESEL needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt 
lend to Mr M irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did AESEL carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M was in a position to sustainably repay the credit?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time 
and did AESEL make a fair lending decision?
Did AESEL act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
There is no set list of checks AESEL had to do, but it could take into account several 
different things such as the amount of credit, Mr Ms financial situation and credit history.
Did AESEL carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M was 
in a position to sustainably repay the credit?
AESEL had to satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay the credit sustainably. That 
is, he should be able to make the payments without undue difficulty, while being able to 
meet other commitments and without having to borrow further. Its not about the likelihood 
of AESEL being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr M.
AESEL said it performed essential application checks which included checking Mr Ms 
credit file. But it has provided no evidence of the checks it says it did, or any detail of what 
it found. Our investigator requested this information prior to reaching his view of the 
complaint and referred to the lack of information from AESEL in his letter giving his 
answer on the complaint. Ive seen nothing which suggests AESEL asked Mr M any 
questions about his income and expenditure or any further questions regarding what it 
found as part of the review of his credit file.
Mr M has provided a copy of his credit file  albeit more recent than his application but 
showing some detail from the time. This shows he had high-cost guarantor loans and was 
using home credit for a sustained period of time, as well as more mainstream credit. 
While the payments were being met, Id have expected a mainstream lender like AESEL 
to have thought carefully about lending new money to someone using facilities such as 
these which are generally aimed at consumers who struggle to obtain finance elsewhere. 
I think the presence of such high-cost credit ought to have alerted AESEL to the fact that 
Mr Ms finances might not be under control, and he may not be able to sustain an 
increase in his indebtedness. I think it ought to have asked more questions of him to 
ensure he could sustainably meet the repayments required. It follows that I dont think 
AESEL carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time and did AESEL 
make a fair lending decision?
Ive outlined above some of the circumstances which I think ought to have led AESEL to 
carry out further checks on Mr Ms finances. I think it would have been reasonable for 
AESEL to get a detailed understanding of Mr Ms income and expenditure, for example by 
asking to see several months of his bank statements.
Mr M has provided us with copies of his bank statements for the period shortly before his 
application for the card. These show he was fully using his overdraft of £3,000 which was in 
excess of his monthly income. Its evident he was regularly spending more money than he 
had coming in and there were numerous gambling transactions - something which Mr M has 
described as a gambling problem.
Having reviewed the information from his credit file and bank statements, it appears to me 
that Mr M was in financial difficulty and simply increasing his indebtedness was unlikely to 
help his situation. It seems Mr M was already borrowing to meet his credit commitments so 
the credit he had already was unsustainable for him. It follows that I think the further credit 
advanced by AESEL would be unsustainable too, so I dont think it reached a fair decision to 
lend to him. 
Did AESEL act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think AESEL has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr M in some other way. 
But I do think AESEL should have refused to lend to Mr M, so I am upholding his complaint.Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. In this case, that would mean putting Mr M in 
the position he would be in now if he hadnt been given the credit card. But Mr M was given 
the card and used the money so its right he should repay what he borrowed. But I dont 
think AESEL should benefit from its decision to lend him the money.
So, I think AESEL should:
1. Refund all of the interest and charges Mr M has paid to date.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, AESEL should reduce the outstanding capital balance 
by the amount calculated above.
3. If, an outstanding capital balance remains, AESEL should ensure it isnt subject to 
any historic or future interest and/or charges, and an affordable and sustainable 
repayment arrangement should be agreed with Mr M. But if Step 2 leads to a positive 
balance, the amount in question should be given back to Mr M and 8% simple 
interest* should be added to the surplus.
4. Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding this credit 
card account. If there is an outstanding balance to pay, AESEL should ensure future 
reporting is in line with the agreement it reaches with Mr M in step 3.
I remind AESEL of its obligation to treat customers in financial difficulties fairly. 
*If AESEL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. American Express Services Europe 
Limited should put matters right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman