DRN-3333569
The complaint
Mr O complains that, in transferring the value of the benefits in his defined benefit pension 
scheme to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), Moore and Smalley LLP (MAS) gave 
him unsuitable advice with regard to the investment funds then chosen..  He also complains 
that MAS didnt give him further advice after the value of his SIPP funds fell.
What happened
Mr O is unwell with a serious health condition. As this could shorten his life, he wanted his 
wife and family to benefit better from his pension. And felt that a transfer away from his 
defined benefit pension scheme could achieve this.
Mr O lives in Australia. In 2018 he asked MAS for advice on transferring the value of the 
benefits in his defined benefit pension scheme into an Australian Self-Managed Super Fund 
(SMSF). He said that the transaction needed to be done in three parts due to Australian 
restrictions. 
During initial discussions in 2018 between MAS and Mr O, they said they told him that they 
could only provide advice to him in the UK. They said that Mr O flew back to the UK to 
receive his formal recommendations. 
In August 2018, MAS advised Mr O to transfer his pension to a UK-based SIPP. Mr Os 
eventual aim was to transfer the money in this SIPP into his Australian pension scheme. In 
order to achieve this aim the money was split into three SIPPs. After assessing Mr Os 
attitude to risk (ATR) MAS advised Mr O to set up two of the SIPPs with a medium to low 
ATR and the other one with a medium ATR. They recommended a fund platform provider 
and funds that they said were in line with Mr Os ATR for the three SIPPs.  
As Mr O lived in Australia, MAS said they couldnt advise him except during his visits to the 
UK. So Mr O couldnt commit to an annual review service with MAS. And MAS said that they 
would classify him as a Consultancy client. This meant that they wouldnt review his 
pensions on an ongoing basis. They recommended that he found a local ongoing service. 
But they said that as the fund platform provider needed the SIPPs to have a financial adviser 
attached to them to deal with ongoing administration, they would provide that service. MAS 
listed what they would provide for the fees they would charge for such a service.  
In March 2020, Mr O first realised that the value of his funds had fallen. So he wanted to 
transfer them into cash in order to prevent further financial loss. But he then discovered that 
he couldnt do that directly with the fund platform provider. He first had to remove MAS as 
his financial advisers.
Mr O complained to MAS. He wanted to know why hed never been told that he could 
instruct his fund platform provider directly if he removed MAS as his agent. He said that if 
hed been told he had this option he wouldve converted his SIPPs to cash as soon as his 
losses had hit 8%. Mr O said hed expected support from MAS with the reinvestment of his 
SIPPs. And felt that theyd been happy to take his money for the initial advice, but then 
seemed to want to offload him. Mr O also said that hed been told he could only get advice 
from MAS if he met them in person. But felt that theyd been able to provide him with advice 
on how to convert his SIPPs into cash over the phone in March 2020.
MAS replied to Mr Os complaint in their 23 April 2020 final response letter. They didnt 
uphold the complaint. They said they couldnt have predicted that Mr O would want to act 
without their advice. And therefore didnt agree that theyd failed to tell him how he could 
instruct his fund platform provider directly. They said they were waiting to hear from the fund 
platform provider whether Mr O could give them investment instructions directly. But they 
didnt agree that the fact that Mr O felt he was now unable to reinvest his cash wouldve 
altered his decision to switch to cash when he did. They also noted that Mr O still had the 
option of appointing an appropriate adviser. They said that it hadnt been possible for them 
to provide formal advice to him while he was in Australia. And that theyd told Mr O in 2019 
that they would need to disengage with him, given it now looked like he might need advice 
while still in Australia. They said that Mr O had told them that hed like to retain their services 
at that time as he was planning another trip to the UK. MAS said that when Mr O told them 
he wanted to move his SIPPs into cash theyd told him they couldnt action his request 
without providing advice to him in the UK. But that as a trip to the UK wouldnt be possible in 
the near future, they spoke to him to try to dissuade him from making a knee-jerk reaction to 
market conditions. But that as hed still wanted to switch to cash, they helped Mr O to find a 
way to instruct the fund platform provider directly. This required Mr O to remove MAS as his 
agent. MAS also told Mr O that they dont monitor individual client portfolios on an ongoing 
basis. 
Mr O asked MAS some additional questions regarding commission payments. They 
confirmed that they hadnt received a commission for recommending the platform provider or 
the funds theyd advised.
Unhappy, Mr O brought his complaint to this service. He felt that MAS had caused issues 
which had led to a financial loss. And wanted them to put this right. He felt that the funds 
hed been recommended were too high risk. He also felt it was unfair that MAS required him 
to travel to the UK to receive financial advice. And felt that he shouldve been given further 
advice when his pension funds started to fall in value. Mr O also felt that it was unfair that the 
SIPPs had been set up so that only MAS, as financial advisers, had authority to instruct the 
fund platform provider to trade.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that MAS had incorrectly 
invested two of Mr Os SIPPs in a medium risk fund, when they shouldve been invested in a 
cautious risk fund. He also felt that MAS should have instructed the fund platform provider to 
invest Mr Os funds into cash on 18 March 2020, when Mr O had contacted them about the 
transfer. Our investigator felt that Mr O had suffered a significant amount of stress and 
inconvenience due to these issues. So he felt that MAS should pay Mr O £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. To put things right, he felt that MAS should 
aim to put Mr O as close as possible back in the position he wouldve been in if the money 
that was invested in the incorrect fund was invested in a lower risk fund. He also felt that 
MAS should identify any potential loss caused by Mr O having to instruct the fund platform 
provider to convert his funds to cash directly. Our investigator also felt that MAS should pay 
interest on the loss they calculated using the same benchmark hed recommended they use 
for the loss assessment.
In response, MAS acknowledged that they shouldve recommended a low to medium risk 
fund, but that they had in fact recommended a medium to low fund. Although this seems 
quite similar, MAS acknowledged that theyd recommended a fund that was slightly riskier 
than it shouldve been. They explained what fund they would have recommended if the ATR 
theyd assessed had been correctly used for the research and in the Suitability Report. MAS 
offered to pay Mr O compensation for being invested in a medium to low risk fund rather than a low to medium risk one. And also agreed to pay the £500 our investigator had 
recommended for stress and inconvenience.
But MAS didnt agree that they shouldve instructed the fund platform provider to invest Mr 
Os funds into cash when Mr O had contacted them about the transfer. They said theyd 
been clear from the start that they couldnt advise Mr O when he was outside the UK. And 
noted that theyd helped Mr O to take action directly, and without their involvement, as soon 
as hed told them what he wanted to do. MAS also didnt agree that they should pay interest 
on the loss calculated as they felt that Mr O had held the funds in cash, which didnt attract 
any interest with the fund platform provider.
Our investigator shared MASs offer with Mr O. But Mr O didnt accept it. As agreement 
couldnt be reached, his complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 March 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. But I dont consider that MAS shouldve instructed the 
fund platform provider to switch Mr Os funds to cash on 18 March 2020. And I dont agree 
with our investigators proposed method for putting things right in respect of the incorrect 
fund recommendation. Ill explain why.
Ill first consider if MAS were responsible for a delay in Mr O moving his funds to cash.
Access to the fund platform provider
Mr O said that when he wanted to move his SIPPs into cash MAS told him they couldnt 
action his request without providing advice to him in the UK. But that as a trip to the UK 
wouldnt be possible in the near future, they spoke to him on the phone to try to discourage 
him from moving into cash at that time. When Mr O had continued to want to switch to cash, 
MAS explained that Mr O first needed to remove them as his agent. He could then instruct 
his fund platform provider to make the switch to cash directly. 
Mr O said that MAS caused a delay in him being able to switch the monies invested in SIPPs 
through his fund platform provider. He said theyd never told him that he could instruct his 
fund platform provider directly if he removed MAS as his agent. And that if they had, he 
wouldve converted his SIPPs to cash as soon as his losses had hit 8%.
MAS said that they couldnt have predicted that Mr O would want to act without their advice. 
And therefore they had no reason to tell him how he could instruct his fund platform provider 
directly.
Our investigator felt that MAS shouldve instructed the fund platform provider as soon as he 
told them he wanted to switch to cash on 18 March 2020. He recommended that MAS 
identified any potential loss that had been caused due to Mr O having to instruct his fund 
platform provider directly.
MAS didnt agree with our investigator. They said theyd been clear from the start that they 
had to give their advice in the UK. And that their relationship with Mr O didnt include 
ongoing advice or reviews. They said theyd previously suggested that Mr O disengaged with 
them, so that he could engage a local adviser. Theyd even provided Mr O with the name of 
a specific adviser in Australia. This couldve prevented any delay in actioning urgent 
requests like this. But Mr O hadnt wanted to move away from them despite this.MAS said they did everything they could to find a workaround for Mr O. And that he gave his 
instruction to his fund platform provider within 24 hours of his request to them. Therefore 
they didnt agree that theyd caused any real delay. 
I note that Mr O first contacted MAS on 18 March 2020 to ask them how he could switch to 
cash. And that he called his fund platform provider on 19 March 2020 to instruct the switch to 
cash, after speaking to MAS and finding out what he had to do. Mr O also told me that he 
thinks the switches took place within 48 hours of his request. 
Ive carefully considered what both Mr O and MAS have said on this part of the complaint. 
Ive also asked Mr O further questions. He told me that he checked the value of his SIPPs on 
or around the 19th of each month. He said hed believed that the funds he was invested in 
were fairly secure. He confirmed that he first contacted MAS about his desire to switch his 
funds into cash on 18 March 2020. 
From what Ive seen, MAS were clear from the start that they couldnt provide Mr O with 
advice while he was in Australia. They tried to encourage him to access suitable advice in 
Australia. They dont provide any of their clients with a service where they monitor 
investment portfolios on an ongoing basis. And theyd been clear with Mr O that they werent 
providing him with ongoing financial advice. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
conclude that they shouldve been monitoring Mr Os fund performance or contacting him in 
the event of a market downturn. 
I acknowledge that Mr O was paying a fee to MAS which did cover some ongoing 
administration. But MAS have explained that, as a firm, they dont conduct execution-only 
business  that is, facilitating transactions without giving advice. And that they wouldve 
deemed passing on Mr Os instructions to be execution-only business. So I can see why 
they didnt consider passing on the switch instructions from Mr O to the fund platform 
provider themselves.
When Mr O originally complained to this service, he said hed lost over £85,000 since 19 
February 2020. When he complained to MAS, he said he was seeking £50,000 redress. He 
explained this amount allowed for him reaching the point at which his risk tolerance wouldve 
led to his switch to cash. But Mr O also told this service that he only checks his funds 
monthly. And Ive already said that I consider that MAS had been clear that they werent 
providing a service where they would be monitoring his fund performance or contacting him 
in the event of a market downturn. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold MAS 
responsible for losses before Mr O first contacted them on 18 March 2020. 
Mr O was able to instruct the switch to cash a day after asking MAS how he could achieve 
the switch. Overall, I dont consider that MAS shouldve instructed the switch on Mr Os 
behalf. And I also dont consider that in not doing so, MAS caused a material delay to the 
process. Therefore I dont intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
Ill now look at Mr Os complaint about investment advice.
Investment advice
Mr O said that MAS shouldve given him advice when his pension funds started to fall in 
value. He also said that they shouldve helped him to reinvest the money after his switch to 
cash. Mr O told this service that hed not reinvested the money. He said he was too scared 
to do anything and had no idea what to invest in.
In their final response letter, MAS said that they couldnt provide formal advice to Mr O while 
he was in Australia. And that theyd been clear about this from the start. They also noted that Mr O still had the option of appointing an appropriate adviser who could provide the advice 
he needed. Separately, and as Ive said above, MAS have also confirmed that they dont 
monitor individual client portfolios on an ongoing basis. And therefore even if they had been 
able to provide advice to Mr O in Australia, there was no expectation of intervention in such 
circumstances. 
From what Ive seen, I consider that MAS were clear that they could only give Mr O formal 
advice face-to-face in the UK. They also proposed that Mr O try to access local advice. But 
he was happy with their service and thought that hed be visiting the UK again soon at that 
time. So he decided not to move to a local adviser. When Mr O realised his funds had fallen 
in value, MAS said they explained why the pandemic had caused a downturn in the markets. 
And attempted to explain that a knee-jerk reaction may not be in his best interests. But Mr O 
still wanted to switch into cash. So MAS helped him to find a way to instruct the fund 
platform provider directly. This required Mr O to remove MAS as his agent. Unfortunately, 
once hed done that, MAS were no longer able to access his information from the fund 
platform provider.
Ive carefully considered everything both Mr O and MAS have said. Im sorry Mr O faced 
such a difficult situation. But Ive not seen any evidence that MAS shouldve acted differently. 
They were clear that they could only provide formal investment advice in the UK. And 
encouraged Mr O to seek more local assistance. I can understand why Mr O didnt think he 
needed to access this. But it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold MAS responsible 
for not monitoring the value of Mr Os funds. As theyd never agreed to provide that service. 
Nor can I hold them responsible for not helping Mr O to reinvest the money after his switch 
to cash. From what I understand, MAS are no longer Mr Os agent. And, in any event, he 
hasnt returned to the UK. And therefore, unfortunately wouldnt have been able to access 
any investment advice from them.  
Ill now look at Mr Os complaint that the funds hed been recommended were too high risk.
Were the recommended investments suitable? 
The 14 July 2018 fact find MAS carried out noted that Mr O expected to move two parts of 
his pension to the Australian SMSF over the next five years. These two parts were to be 
invested on a low to medium risk basis. The other part would be moved later than the first 
two and could be invested on a medium risk basis.
The medium risk part of Mr Os transfer was invested in the Premier Multi-Asset Growth and 
Income Fund. The Key Investor Information for this fund showed that it was a medium risk 
fund. That document recorded the level of risk as a 4 (from a range between 1 and 7). And 
noted that: it has experienced medium rises and falls in value over the past five years. 
I agree with our investigator that as Mr O intended to keep this fund for more than five years 
while waiting for the other parts of his pension fund to be transferred to the Australian SMSF, 
this fund was suitable for him.
For the two parts of Mr Os transfer which were to be invested in a low to medium risk fund, 
the recommended fund was the Quilter Investors Cirilium Balanced Portfolio fund. The Key 
Investor Information for this fund showed that it was also a medium risk fund, rather than a 
low to medium risk fund. That document also recorded the level of risk as a 4 (from a range 
between 1 and 7). And noted that: Funds in category 4 have in the past shown moderate 
volatility. With a fund of category 4, you have a moderate risk of losing money but your 
chance for gains is also moderate. This therefore doesnt appear to match the level of risk 
(low to medium) that MAS assessed in the fact find.The Suitability Report dated August 2018 stated on page 5:
We have completed a fact find, which we use to help us identify your attitude to risk. The 
fact find outlines six risk levels ranging from low risk, cash only investors to high to medium 
risk, 100% equity investors. From this range, we have identified that a medium to low 
attitude to risk would be appropriate for 2/3rds of your pension savings with a medium 
attitude to risk being suitable for the remaining 1/3rd of your pension savings. 
So this shows that MAS had made an error in recording Mr Os ATR for two of the SIPPS. 
Theyd recorded the ATR as slightly higher than they should have. 
Our investigator proposed that in order to correct this error, MAS should put Mr O as closely 
as possible in the position he wouldve been in if the funds that were invested in the Quilter 
Investors Cirilium Balanced Portfolio were invested in lower risk funds. He specified the 
funds he felt should be used instead. These were:
50% fixed rate bonds 
50% FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index 
Our investigator also recommended that once the loss calculation had been carried out, 
MAS should also pay interest on the amount of that loss using the same benchmark as the 
loss assessment from the date Mr O had transferred into cash to the date of settlement. 
MAS didnt agree with our investigator. But they acknowledged that theyd recommended a 
higher risk fund than they should have. They said if theyd correctly recorded Mr Os ATR as 
low to medium when recommending the fund, they wouldve recommended a fund in the IMA 
Mixed (0-35% Shares) Sector. They said this fund wouldve been selected using their 
internal investment process, laid out by their Investment Committee.
MAS offered to benchmark the performance of the Quilter Investors Cirilium Balanced 
Portfolio against the fund that they had on record from their Investment Committee as being 
suitable for a low to medium risk investor at that point in time. 
I asked MAS to provide evidence about the fund they wouldve selected if no error had been 
made. They did this. And Im satisfied that if no error had been made the Quilter Cirilium 
Conservative fund wouldve been the one that MAS recommended  and this would have 
been accepted by Mr O.
Mr O didnt accept MASs offer. But Ive considered if it was a fair offer under the 
circumstances. Having done that, Im satisfied that if MAS had correctly recorded the level of 
risk from the fact find when producing their investment recommendations, they wouldve 
recommended a fund from the IMA Mixed (0-35% Shares) Sector. I consider that using the 
actual fund that shouldve been recommended as the benchmark for redress calculations will 
put Mr O back to the position he wouldve been in had the error not been made. Therefore I 
intend to uphold this part of the complaint. And I intend to require MAS to carry out a loss 
calculation using the fund that shouldve been recommended as the benchmark for that 
calculation. 
Ill now consider the interest recommendation our investigator made. MAS didnt agree with 
the recommendation. They felt that a suitable rate of interest to use would be that payable 
on cash deposits with the fund platform provider. And noted that this was 0%.
If no error had been made with the investment recommendations, I consider two of Mr Os 
SIPPs wouldve been invested in the Quilter Cirilium Conservative fund up to the date of the switch into cash. Im satisfied that Mr O wouldnt have made a different decision to switch to 
cash if hed been invested in a different fund. Therefore I consider that he would still have 
switched when he did. So Im satisfied that Mr O wouldve been invested in cash from the 
date of the switch. This was his choice. And it was made against MASs recommendations at 
the time.
But I also need to consider where Mr O has invested the money since he switched to cash. 
He has confirmed that he never reinvested the money. MAS said that as Mr O held the funds 
in cash, which didnt attract any interest with the fund platform provider, they shouldnt be 
required to pay interest on the loss calculated. 
I know this will disappoint Mr O, but I agree with MAS on this point. I acknowledge that Mr O 
may not currently be invested in cash through choice, but because he hasnt got access to 
the support he needs in order to appropriately reinvest it. But, as I stated earlier, I cant hold 
MAS responsible for that. So I consider that no interest should be payable on the redress 
calculated. But I do think that any difference in the value of the funds, as and when they 
were switched into cash, should be applied to the current value of Mr Os funds. 
By applying any loss, as at the switch into cash, in percentage terms to the current value of 
the pension funds, this will reflect whatever has actually happened to Mr Os funds in terms 
of performance since.
Did Mr O need to be in the UK to get advice?
Our investigator noted that Its up to MAS to set the terms on which they do business. He 
considered whether Mr O had been made aware of the requirement for him to be in the UK 
in order to receive financial advice from MAS.
From what Ive seen, MAS did make this clear to Mr O. For example, in the 17 July 2018 
meeting note they said:
Of course, I explained to him that it is sensible to review his investments on a regular basis 
(Mr O said he could do this online from Australia) and should he want to have advice and he 
was back in the UK, which may be possible depending on health/visiting family, he could 
engage us on an ad hoc basis.
And in the Suitability Report, they noted:
It is important to regularly review your pension plan to ensure that the level of risk and policy 
itself remains suitable for you. Given that you will be unable to meet on an annual basis, we 
agreed that you will be classified as a Consultancy client moving forward, meaning that we 
will not review your pensions on an ongoing basis.   
And:
I strongly recommended an ongoing service with this type of pension contract as any 
changes in your circumstances or the investment performance could result in you receiving 
less in retirement than quoted within this report. Whilst you understand this, as you live in 
Australia you are unable to commit to an annual review service. You can engage our 
services should you return to the UK any time on an ad-hoc basis. 
I acknowledge that Mr O doesnt agree that MAS werent allowed to provide him with advice 
while in Australia. But MAS said they dont have the necessary permissions from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to give financial advice if their client isnt in the UK. And 
from what Ive seen, they made this position clear to Mr O before he appointed them. As the requirement to be in the UK was made clear to Mr O before he received financial 
advice, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that MAS did anything wrong 
when they continued to state they could only provide him with advice on UK soil. 
Ill now consider if compensation should be paid for the distress and inconvenience Mr O has 
suffered.
Distress and inconvenience
Our investigator considered that Mr O had suffered a significant amount of distress and 
inconvenience due to the issues hes faced. I agree. He recommended that compensation of 
£500 would be fair under the circumstances. 
Based on what happened, I agree that £500 is reasonable in this case. And I can see that 
MAS have already agreed to pay this amount in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
Mr O has faced.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr O should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if the funds that were invested in the Quilter Investors Cirilium Balanced Portfolio 
had been invested in the correct low to medium risk fund.
I think Mr O would have invested differently. Im satisfied that Mr O wouldve invested in the 
Quilter Cirilium Conservative fund if MAS had correctly used his assessed ATR for two of the 
three SIPPs. 
What should MAS do?
In the event that I uphold this complaint, my current view is that MAS should determine 
whether Mr O suffered financial loss at the point of switching into cash by having his pension 
funds incorrectly invested. MAS have said that they will establish whether this was the case 
by using the Quilter Cirilium Conservative fund as a comparator.
If that determines a loss, MAS should apply that same percentage of loss to Mr Os pension 
funds as at the date of any final decision along these same lines. So for example, if Mr Os 
funds at the point of switching into cash were valued at £90,000, but should have been 
valued at £100,000, there was a 10% loss, and MAS should therefore ensure that the 
current value of Mr Os pension funds is uplifted by a factor of £100,000/£90,000, ie 1.11. 
If its possible for MAS to do this, given that Mr O is now resident overseas, that uplift should 
take into account any available tax relief and annual allowance (again, probably unlikely 
given Mr Os country of residence), along with not conflicting with any protections which 
might be in place.
If it isnt possible to make a payment into Mr Os plan, then the value of the uplift should be 
paid directly to Mr O, with a notional deduction for income tax which would be payable by Mr 
O in retirement at source from the UK  and assuming that tax free cash would be taken. Ive 
assumed the tax rate to be 20%, which means the overall deduction should be 15%. If Mr O 
wouldnt pay any UK tax on income drawn from the pension funds, but rather tax in Australia, 
Id be grateful if he would inform me what that marginal rate would be.
MAS should also pay to Mr O an additional £500 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience suffered.Response to my provisional decision
Mr O agreed with my findings. 
MAS accepted my provisional decision, subject to the following:
They felt it would be problematic trying to make the compensation payment to Mr Os 
plan. And therefore wanted to pay the value of the uplift directly to him.
They need the current value of his plan in order to calculate the uplift.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No other new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I 
set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require Moore and Smalley LLP to determine whether Mr O suffered financial loss at the 
point of switching into cash by having his pension funds incorrectly invested. MAS have said 
that they will establish whether this was the case by using the Quilter Cirilium Conservative 
fund as a comparator.
If that determines a loss, MAS should apply that same percentage of loss to Mr Os pension 
funds as at the date of any final decision along these same lines. So for example, if Mr Os 
funds at the point of switching into cash were valued at £90,000, but should have been 
valued at £100,000, there was a 10% loss, and MAS should therefore ensure that the 
current value of Mr Os pension funds is uplifted by a factor of £100,000/£90,000, ie 1.11. 
As it would be problematic to make a payment into Mr Os plan, then the value of the uplift 
should be paid directly to Mr O, with a notional deduction for income tax which would be 
payable by Mr O in retirement at source from the UK  and assuming that tax free cash 
would be taken. Ive assumed the tax rate to be 20%, which means the overall deduction 
should be 15%. 
MAS should also pay to Mr O an additional £500 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Moore and Smalley LLP to 
take the action detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman