DRN-2557812
The complaint
N complains UK Insurance Limited dealt with its motor insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
In June 2020 N made a claim on its UKI fleet motor insurance policy. One of its vans had 
been damaged in an attempted break-in. UKI agreed to repair some of the damage identified 
by N from the incident  including a piercing in a panel. But it refused to cover some other 
damage  including scratches to body work and damage to a wheel arch. UKI felt that 
damage wasnt from the break-in but was instead pre-existing.  
In response to a complaint from N UKI explained that its engineer felt the disputed damage 
was pre-existing as it showed signs of oxidation  whilst the piercing didnt. UKI also said the 
scratches werent what it would expect to see following a break-in. So it didnt change its 
position on that damage.  
N made a second claim for the disputed damage. This meant it had to pay a second policy 
excess. It feels all the damage was from the attempted break-in. So it wants it all to be 
considered as one claim with only one excess payable. 
Our investigator didnt feel there was enough to say the disputed damage was from the 
attempted break-in. So he didnt recommended UKI do anything differently. N didnt accept 
that, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For me to say UKI should cover the damage under one claim Id need to think it probably all 
happened during the attempted break-in. But having considered everything provided, I cant 
say it most likely did.  
UKI points to the clean and shiny piercing damage, that everyone accepts is from the break-
in. And it compares this to the scratches and wheel arch damage, which it feels show signs 
of being older  because of the presence of oxidation. It feels the disputed damage isnt 
consistent with a break-in. Instead it says its more typical of an impact. However, N says the 
damage wasnt there before the break-in so must be from it. Its also referred to the vans 
last driver, prior to the break-in, reporting that the scratches werent there before the 
incident. 
I accept its possible the damage is all from the break-in. But I cant say, based on what Ive 
seen, thats probably the case. For example, the scratches, from the photos, do look like 
something more likely to have been caused by an impact. They dont seem consistent, 
unlike the piercing, with the damage that might be expected from a break-in attempt. And of 
course, you have signs of oxidisation, which is an indication that the damage is pre-existing. 
So overall, I cant say UKIs acted unfairly by not considering all the damage under one 
claim. 
Theres been some debate about what damage was reported when N initially made the 
claim. UKIs been asked to provide a recording of that call. It hasnt done so yet, so I havent 
listened to the call. But even if the disputed damage was claimed for initially it wouldnt make 
a difference to the outcome of this complaint. I still wouldnt be persuaded it was most likely 
related to the break-in.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making UK Insurance Limited do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman