DRN-1672412
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out the PPI in 1998. Although they had a joint mortgage, the PPI was set 
up just to cover Mr G.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G say they didnt know that PPI had been added to the mortgage account  
meaning it was added without their knowledge or consent.
Mr and Mrs G arranged the mortgage in 1990. Ive seen the mortgage application form from 
that time. The section for PPI has been left blank, so they werent sold PPI at that time. BoS 
has provided evidence that the PPI was sold in 1998. As the mortgage had been running for 
some time by that point, Mr and Mrs G cant have thought that the policy was a condition of 
getting the mortgage.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mr G completed in 1998. Its clear that cover is 
only being applied for by Mr G. The level of benefit and monthly cost of the policy also 
appear on the form. Mr G has then signed and dated the form at the bottom.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Gs recollection 
of events has faded. Looking at the available evidence, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G 
decided to buy the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember 
doing so.
BoS advised Mr and Mrs G to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending the PPI, it needed 
to ensure that it met the couples needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mrs G was working part time. As the main earner, it makes sense that the PPI was set up 
just to cover Mr G. So it seems that some consideration was given to how the policy could 
best work for them.Mr G says he would have received three months sick pay. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr G would have received full 
pay for. The couple had a small amount of savings. But having the policy would have 
allowed them to retain these or to use them to cover other outgoings at what would have 
been a difficult time. Overall, I think that Mr and Mrs G had a need for the PPI and could 
have benefitted from it.
I think that Mr and Mrs G would have known something about the policy - that it would have 
covered their mortgage repayments if Mr G was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think they would have bought it without knowing anything at 
all about it. And, as Ive mentioned above, the cost of the PPI was stated on the PPI 
application form, so they would have known what theyd be paying for the policy.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr G wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that Mr and Mrs G had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. 
This means that BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. But 
BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because: 
When the policy was sold, BoS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G 
about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr and Mrs G, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman