DRN-4189777
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the delays he experienced when trying to close his two accounts 
he held with ITI Capital Limited (ITI). Mr N has said that as a result of the delays, he has 
suffered a loss of around £7,000 and wants this returned to him.
What happened 
In July 2020 Mr Ns accounts, which he held with a previous firm that had gone into
administration were transferred over to ITI. Mr N didnt want to hold his accounts with ITI.
He requested that both accounts be closed on 21 January 2021. But he didnt receive the
value of his accounts in cash as he had expected.
Mr N contacted ITI and made a complaint in April but at the time of bringing his complaint to
the Financial Ombudsman, in July 2021, he still hadnt received his funds despite sending all
the appropriate forms. He wants the cash value of the accounts as at the time of the closure
request he made in January 2021.
ITI issued its response to Mr Ns complaint on 4 June 2021 which it didnt uphold. It said;
Its understanding of Mr Ns complaint was that he wished to close his account and
withdraw the holdings.
He contacted ITI in April 2021 and was advised that he had the ability to trade and
act on his account, could call the dealing desk or obtain information from its website.
It said it was the customers responsibility to check the website for updated
information and emails were sent to all customers advising them to call the dealing
desk if they wished to trade. It was unable to advise Mr N on how to proceed as that
decision was his.
Mr N hadnt completed the onboarding process which would have allowed him to
access his holdings and make trades. And as Mr N had been made aware of how he
could take action on his account by contacting the dealing desk, plus the fact that he
had not completed the onboarding process, it couldnt agree he had suffered
detriment as a result of its actions.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld. He said;
Despite numerous requests to ITI for information the investigator hadnt received any
response and had no choice but to issue his findings in the absence of ITIs input.
ITI had said that Mr N hadnt completed the necessary onboarding process and could
still trade if he wanted to. But Mr N said this wasnt the case and he was unable to
access his account.
It was clear that Mr N had requested to close his account and withdraw all funds as
cash in January 2021. Since the request, ITI could have processed the request or
made clear to him how he should go about it.
The investigator hadnt seen any substantial explanation why Mr N wasnt able to
withdraw his funds in January 2021.
The investigator said that ITI should close Mr Ns account as per his initial request,
pay him the cash equivalent to the value of his accounts as at 21 January 2021 and
pay him £200 for the poor service and inconvenience he had been caused.
A second of our investigators later considered the complaint and thought that it
should be upheld, and Mr N should also be paid 8% interest on the value of his
accounts from 21 January 2021 to the date of settlement.
We didnt hear back from ITI and Mr N raised additional concerns as ITI had announced it
was withdrawing from the UK retail market.
As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision explaining that I intended on reaching a different conclusion
than the investigator. But I asked both parties to give me anything further they wanted me to
consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
Despite requests, there was very little information or evidence from ITI for the
investigator to have relied upon, so the opinion was issued in the absence of that. ITI
has provided some further information at my request so I do have additional evidence
to consider.
But when the evidence I have for a complaint may be incomplete or contradictory, I
have to make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  which, in other
words, means I base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The account closure
From what I have seen, my general understanding of how a customer would need to
go about closing an account with ITI is that they would request any shareholdings
with ITI be sold and any cash on account could be paid out.
Mr N wanted to close his account. After having initial problems accessing the portal
to his account he had been sent, he sent a withdrawal instruction for both of his
accounts to ITI on 21 January 2021.
But those withdrawal instruction documents only referred to the cash held on the
accounts and not any shareholdings. If Mr N had wanted to have his whole account
in cash, he would have needed to instruct that his holdings be sold and request for
the resulting cash to be transferred to him. So, Ive considered the information he has
given us and what he has said he was told by ITI in order to do that.
In his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in July 2021 Mr N said that after
several phone calls and logging into the account portal I have still not received
money due. Having looked on the account portfolio now I see that both accounts
appear to be processing. Mr N has sent us screenshots of this and I note it says
Your request for closing ITI account has been sent successfully. We will get back to
you soon. And under Current Status it says PROCESSING.
Amongst other contact with ITI, Mr N told us he had phoned and was informed of theprocess to close the account, so he called the dealing team as advised and emailed
instruction to close his account. He told us he sent off the appropriate proof of identity
and the form that had been emailed to him for instruction to close both accounts.
Mr N told us that in chasing up the closure he received varying replies including you
have already closed this account, you havent closed this account, you need to
send in the paperwork, the latter for which he had done on several occasions. He
says he was stuck in an endless loop.
Mr N has provided us with various email conversations he had with ITI which started
on 14 August 2020 when he confirmed he couldnt sign into his account and went on
to request new signing in details. On 21 January 2021 he emailed to the cash
withdrawal email address at ITI to say I would like to confirm that I wish to close
these accounts. Please find withdrawal claim form and bank statement. In response
he was sent a holding email from the Cash Withdrawal team but was later emailed
on 8 April 2021 and was advised to Please complete and send back the attached
withdrawal form with a bank statement
Mr N raised a complaint and was advised he would need to onboard so he could
trade his stock online and then withdraw the funds, or contact the dealing desk,
details for which it said had already been emailed to him. Or he could transfer his
account to another broker. Mr N told us he had already emailed the dealing desk
confirming he wanted to close his account in January 2021 by which I assume he is
referring to the cash withdrawal request referred to above which I note was confirmed
as being received by the cash withdrawal team.
After further correspondence Mr N was advised in April 2021 that he would need to
sell his stock and that details of how to trade were on its website. And in May he was
advised to send his cash withdrawal form and bank statement and again in June he
was told If you wish to liquidate your account, please email us a proof of your ID and
a recent bank statement which I understand he did.
In ITIs response to Mr Ns complaint it said he had been informed in April 2021 about
his account and I note that in that email from ITI he was told to either onboard and
trade online or contact the dealing team. Mr N has told us that he had already
contacted the dealing team in January 2021.
The above suggests that Mr N was given different information during his attempts to
close his accounts. From what Mr N has told us, he was making genuine attempts at
closing his account, and I havent seen anything to confirm he received consistent or
accurate help or advice when he approached ITI. So, I can understand his frustration
and think Mr N should be given some compensation in recognition of this.
But I cant agree that Mr N gave ITI the appropriate instructions in order to sell his
shareholdings and then request the resulting cash be paid to him so that he could
close his account. Mr Ns account wasnt a discretionary one, so any instruction to
place a specific trade would need to come from Mr N.
Mr Ns ability to trade
So, I need to consider whether Mr N made clear that he wanted to sell his
shareholdings and for the resulting cash to be paid to him. From what Ive seen it
seems that Mr Ns understanding of closing his account  which would have included
selling his shareholdings  was for him to send the cash withdrawal form which he
did for both accounts on 21 January 2021 with Please close this account annotatedin the client comments section.
However, both of Mr Ns accounts were execution only which meant that Mr N had
to give instructions for any disposal of shares on his accounts. ITI couldnt carry out
any trades unless instructed to do so by Mr N. And I dont think the annotation of
Please close this account on a form  which was designed for the purpose of cash
withdrawals  was a sufficient instruction in order for ITI to carry out the trades.
So, in order for me to uphold Mr Ns complaint, I would need to see that he tried to
place an instruction to sell his holdings but was prevented from doing so because of
any actions  or inaction  of ITI. And I cant see that is the case as Mr N didnt give
such an instruction.
And Ive also borne in mind that without clear evidence of the sales Mr N says he
wanted to make but werent carried out due to ITIs failings, I cant identify a financial
loss arising from those sales. So, Ive nothing to show that Mr N missed out on
particular profits due to being unable to carry out those sales. I dont think it would be
fair and reasonable in those circumstances to award redress for such lost profits.
Also, theres no suggestion Mr N attempted to make the particular sales with ITI. As I
understand it there were messages on ITIs website that told customers in
September and October 2020 that customers could place orders over the phone at
online dealing rates and that this was regardless of the status of the clients
registration  ie if a customer hadnt onboarded their account as in Mr Ns case. So,
I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that Mr N could have traded. And as
pointed out by ITI in its response to Mr Ns complaint, it was the customers
responsibility to check the website for updated information and emails were sent to
all customers advising them to call the dealing desk if they wished to trade.
So, what I have doesnt persuade me that ITI this most likely caused Mr N a financial
loss. And I dont overlook that ITI says Mr N could actually have traded by phone
anyway  and so was not in fact prevented from making any trades he might have
wished to make. I did ask ITI about any phone records it had of Mr N contacting the
dealing desk but said it had checked to the best of its abilities and it had no records
of calls from his registered phone number.
I concluded that Mr N had been given conflicting information when trying to close his account 
which must have been frustrating for him. I thought ITI should pay him the increased sum of 
£250 because of the frustration he was caused. I note there was a typographical error in the 
final section of my provisional decision where I quoted £200. That should have read £250 as 
stated in the putting the matter right section of my provisional decision. I have informed ITI 
of this error and I apologise to the parties.
Overall, I didnt find that Mr N had been able to evidence he tried to sell his shares and was
prevented from doing so by ITI. The information he needed in order to sell his shareholdings
and close his account was on ITIs website and contained in the emails it sent to him.
ITI responded by saying that it would pay Mr N £200 if that would help resolve the
complaint. I contacted ITI to confirm that amount should have read £250 as quoted in the
putting the matter right section.
Mr N also replied. He didnt agree with my proposed outcome. He said;
He didnt agree that the withdrawal form only referred to the cash element of his
account. The form only referred to his account as a whole and not just the cash. If itwasnt sufficient, he should have been told otherwise.
The cash withdrawal email address he used was the address he already held. He
didnt realise the choice of address used was so important when the form itself didnt
mention cash withdrawals only. His comment close my account should have been
enough.
Mr N called multiple times to sell his shares and close his account. He finds it
coincidental that ITI cant find those calls which are key to his complaint. He had
called the dealing team to tell of his intentions, but his shares werent sold.
He was given conflicting information. The earliest record ITI has of telling him it had
informed him he needed to first sell his shares was April 2021 when he had originally
made contact in January. ITI hadnt been able to provide any information from around
that time because as it would show it was ITI who had caused the error.
If he had been told he needed to confirm via email that he wanted to sell the shares,
withdraw the cash and close his account, despite having done so via the ITI portal
and numerous calls, he would have done so.
ITI had failed on multiple occasions, given him conflicting information and
misinformation.
He is now no longer able to access any information about his account or withdraw
any money held by ITI due to it no longer conducting any UK dealing.
He referred to the portal information he had been given when trying to close his
account. If it had progressed as it should have done, this complaint would never have
happened.
In light of the comments that Mr N made I reconsidered my provisional decision and my 
conclusion provisionally changed. So, I issued a second provisional decision to allow the 
parties to respond. This is what I said;
ITI has said it was a customers responsibility to be aware of information provided on 
its website. And I dont find that an unreasonable comment as I think it most likely 
that is where its customers would refer to for information and updates. ITI has told us 
the relevant information Mr N would have needed about how to trade was on its 
website, so it was available to him. Ive borne this in mind when considering Mr Ns 
complaint. But equally Ive taken account of Mr Ns comments.
Im satisfied that Mr N was making genuine attempts to close his account  whether 
Mr Ns understanding of how he went about that was correct or not. And Im now 
minded to conclude that ITI should have done more for Mr N. I say this because Ive 
reconsidered the actions that Mr N took and whether it would have been reasonable 
for ITI  if it wasnt willing to have sold Mr Ns shares as a result of the instructions he 
had given  to have provided further information or guidance in response to those 
requests for action.
As mentioned in my provisional decision Mr N has sent me screenshots of what he 
saw when he was trying to close his account via the portal. I can see it says You[r] 
request for closing [your] ITI account has been sent successfully. We will get back to 
you soon and its current status was processing. He said it should then have 
progressed to a further screen to confirm he wanted to close his account. Mr N has said he was in an endless loop and couldnt progress any further than what ITIs 
portal was telling him.
I think Mr N took additional action in order to mitigate the position he found himself in. 
The portal wasnt working as it should have done and he told us that as a result of 
that, he spoke with ITI many times, including the dealing desk to whom I understand 
he explained that he wanted to close his account.
Mr N has referred to the many phone calls he had with ITI. I appreciate how 
frustrating it must be for him that ITI cant retrieve those calls as he says they are 
very pertinent to his complaint. And Mr N has said that those calls would have been 
from a work phone number he can no longer access. So, there arent any recordings 
available for me to listen to. I should say that I would expect a regulated business 
such as ITI to have provided me with those calls if they were available. As mentioned 
in my provisional decision, when information I have is incomplete, I have to base my 
decision on what I think is most likely.
And upon reconsideration of this complaint I find that Mr Ns comments are 
compelling. I think it most likely that Mr N did place those calls  and in particular to 
the dealing desk which is the team that ITI has said he should have spoken to in 
order to sell his shares if he wanted to close his account.
 
Even if Mr N didnt express himself properly and just explained he wanted to close 
his account rather than give specific instructions for his holdings to have been sold in 
order for the resulting cash to have been sent to him, I would have expected the 
dealing team to have advised him otherwise. I think the dealing team should have 
picked up on this request and either requested confirmation from him that he wanted 
his shares to have been sold or explained that he would need to instruct ITI to sell 
the shares rather than just inform it that he wanted to close his account.
I was previously of the view that Mr Ns withdrawal request emailed to the Cash 
Withdrawal team didnt amount to a sale instruction to be carried out by the dealing 
desk. But I have reviewed this evidence further and again note he also sent an email 
saying I would like to confirm that I wish to close these accounts. Please find 
withdrawal Form and bank statement. If you require more information please reply to 
this email.
So again, taking ITIs business as a whole, even if Mr N had incorrectly emailed the 
cash withdrawal team with the request to withdraw his cash  which I note it did 
action for the cash that was on account  I think it should have taken further action. 
Included on the form, there was an annotation under the client comments, if any 
section which said Please close this account. Even if the cash team didnt know how 
Mr N should go about that I would have expected the cash team to have picked up 
on the request and passed it onto a team that could have helped. Bearing in mind all 
of the other actions Mr N had tried to take in order to close his account I am satisfied 
he was making a clear  and standalone instruction  which should have either been 
acted upon, clarified or redirected.
Overall, Im satisfied that it was undeniable in the various different ways Mr N told us 
he contacted ITI that he was asking it to sell his shares and close his account. What 
seems to have prevented that happening is that he didnt give those two instructions 
separately. But I dont think it was fair and reasonable for ITI to have failed to have 
grasped Mr Ns intent here. It had a number of opportunities to confirm that specific 
instruction to sell the shares (if it even needed to) and I think it would have been 
reasonable, in these particular circumstances, to have expected it to do so. Had that happened, Im satisfied Mr Ns shares would have been sold and his account closed 
in January 2021 as he had wanted.
From what Mr N has said, it seems like he followed the instruction he was given by
attempting to close his account via the portal. He gave instructions that he thought 
were clear and in line with what he had been advised to do. He tried to follow this up 
and wasnt informed at any stage that he hadnt given the instruction he thought he 
had  or in the manner or via a route ITI expected it to be given. But I am satisfied 
that ITI was sufficiently aware of his intent and that he hadnt given the instruction in 
the way that it needed. On balance, I think it was ITI, more than Mr N, who had the 
knowledge and opportunity to intervene and correct the course of events here.
I asked ITI what action it would take if Mr Ns instruction wasnt in line with its 
processes and what action was taken to ensure he was aware of anything different or 
further that he needed to do. But I didnt receive any response that explained what 
action ITI should or would have taken. So bearing in mind, what I think are genuine 
attempts to close his account  first by using the portal, then by phoning and emailing 
 I think ITI should have acted sooner than its response of 9 April after Mr N raised 
his complaint. In that response he was advised to either onboard  which he had 
already problems with  or call the dealing desk which he told us he had done on 
many occasions.
After careful reconsideration, and taking all of the above into account, I think Mr Ns
complaint should succeed. I think ITI should have been more proactive in assisting 
Mr N in selling his shares and closing his account. He has provided sufficient 
evidence  and what I consider to be compelling testimony  for me to conclude that 
Mr Ns version of events are most likely in his attempts to contact ITI. So ITI needs to 
put the matter right for the losses Mr N has suffered as a result of not being able to 
sell his shares despite his attempts to do so.
As ITI doesnt have copies of any call recordings available, its difficult for me to 
assess when it would be reasonable to have assumed that he was making a firm 
instruction to close his account with either the dealing desk or another team at ITI. 
Im aware of the conflicting information he was receiving from the portal about the 
actions being processed on his account and if that instruction had processed 
correctly how quickly his shares would have been sold.
But on balance I think a clear record of the date that Mr N wanted to close his 
account was when he sent the email of 21 January 2021 to the cash withdrawal team 
as we know that was received and acted upon as the cash from his account was paid 
out to him. Bearing in mind that I think this instruction should have been noticed and 
which should have resulted in Mr N being advised of the action he needed to take  
to phone the dealing desk and give it a sale instruction  then I think that date would 
be a reasonable date to assume that Mr N would have been aware of the action that 
he did need to take and the sales of his investments would have taken place.
To put the matter right I said ITI should sell Mr Ns shareholdings and pay him any difference 
in prices from 21 January 2021 to the date the shares were sold. And as Mr N had been 
deprived of the cash in the meantime, if there was a loss, interest at a rate of 8% simple 
should be added to that sum from the date the shares should have been sold to the date of 
payment.
I said ITI should also pay Mr N the sum of £250 for the frustration Mr N has been caused.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ITI didnt respond to my second provisional decision.
Mr N did reply. He outlined his understanding of my proposed outcome, and if his 
understanding was correct, then he accepted the conclusions outlined in my provisional 
decision.
As ITI didnt provide anything more for my consideration and Mr N agrees with my proposed 
outcome, I see no reason to depart from my second provisional decision. So, I confirm those 
findings and I uphold Mr Ns complaint. And ITI needs to put the matter right. 
Putting things right
To put the matter right ITI should;
sell the remaining shares in both his accounts and pay him any difference in price 
from 21 January 21 to the date those shares are sold. 
As Mr N has been deprived of that money, if any compensation is due to him, interest 
at a rate of 8% simple should be added to that sum from the date the shares should 
have been sold to the date of payment to Mr N. 
Mr N should also be paid £250 for the frustration that has been caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ns complaint and ITI Capital Limited should put 
the matter right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman