DRN-3055142
The complaint and what happened
Ms T complains that TFS Loans Limited, trading as Blue Fish Loans (Blue Fish), lent to 
her irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. She would like all the 
fees and charges associated with the loan refunded, as well as any negative information 
removed from her credit file.
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from August 2021, which 
forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons 
why I wasnt planning to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought 
the checks that Blue Fish carried out went far enough and didnt suggest that the 
lending was unsustainable for Ms T.
I asked both Ms T and Blue Fish to let me have any more information they wanted 
me to consider. Blue Fish accepted my findings, but Ms T has explained why she 
doesnt accept my findings  she clearly feels strongly that Blue Fish acted as an 
unscrupulous loan shark and that my provisional decision is enabling it to get 
away with that poor behaviour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, and Ill reiterate why, but first Ive included here the 
relevant sections of my provisional decision:
What happened
In January 2010 Blue Fish approved a loan of £1,000 for Ms T, which was scheduled to 
be repaid at approximately £122 per month over a term of 18 months. The loan was 
apparently intended to consolidate debt and fund a holiday. When assessing the 
application, Blue Fish asked Ms T about her financial circumstances, got proof of 
income; reviewed some bank statements; and carried out a credit check before 
approving the lending. In 2011 Ms T ran into difficulties repaying the loan and its current 
status is unclear.
The investigator looked at the evidence and thought that Blue Fish carried out 
sufficient checks when assessing whether this loan was affordable for Ms T. But she 
thought that Blue Fish didnt correctly respond to the information it had, and should 
have identified that the lending wasnt affordable or sustainable. Blue Fish disagreed, 
and asked an ombudsman to look at the case.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently not planning to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
I need to first look at what information Blue Fish had when considering Ms Ts loan 
application, and then what information it should have gathered, given what it knew 
about Ms T and her circumstances.
Did Blue Fishs checks go far enough?
The regulations require potential lenders to carry out sufficient checks, proportionate to 
customer circumstances, to make sure that repayments can be made without undue 
difficulties and the lending therefore fairly judged as affordable. Neither the extent, nor the 
exact content, of checks is prescribed.
Bearing everything in mind, like the investigator, I consider that Blue Fishs checks were 
sufficient. It took steps to verify both her income and expenditure, as well as carrying out a 
credit check. Given the amount and term of the loan, and what it knew about Ms T, I dont 
think anything more in-depth was required.
The key issue in this case is whether the information it had should have led Blue Fish to 
turn down Ms Ts application.
Should the information available to it have led Blue Fish to reject Ms Ts request?
As Ive already said, Blue Fish carried out a basic income and expenditure analysis (I&E), 
confirmed Ms Ts income, and reviewed her expenditure via bank statements.
The I&E suggested that Ms T had a monthly income of around £1,683 and outgoings of 
around £570, including the proposed repayment on this loan of £122 per month. Also 
included in the outgoings were £150 for rent and about £250 to service other debt. On that 
basis, Ms T could have been judged to have been easily able to afford this loan.
However, other information it had available to it should have caused Blue Fish to 
reconsider this I&E. Firstly, it is clear (and recorded elsewhere by Blue Fish during the 
application) that Ms Ts net income was significantly lower than £1,683, in fact being 
around £1,340. Secondly, Blue Fish did not appear to factor any ordinary living expenses, 
such as food or clothing, into Ms Ts outgoings. Thirdly, Blue Fish needed to do more to 
truly understand the amount of money Ms T was likely to need to service all her debts. 
Having taken into account what is clear from her bank statements at the time, it would 
seem that Ms T may have needed as much as £550 per month to service debts, not 
including the repayment to Blue Fish which was under consideration.
So, in the round, I dont think Blue Fish did a good job of identifying Ms Ts disposable 
income. Her income was lower, and her outgoings higher, than the amounts reflected on 
the I&E. I think it would have been fair, based on the information available, to estimate Ms 
Ts outgoings per month at around £1,000, allowing for ordinary living expenses and a 
larger amount to service debt. In reaching that figure, Ive also borne in mind that Ms T 
stated she would be using some of the loan to reconsolidate debt  meaning that it could 
have been expected that some of the debt she was repaying in the months leading up to 
this application would have been settled. However, as that was not detailed in the 
application, I cant assume that she would have settled large amounts of debt.
The investigator highlighted that Ms Ts bank statements showed she had more debt than 
was seemingly declared, or taken into account. That is true. However, I dont think there 
was any evidence to suggest that she was unable to manage the debt she had. Aside from 
one occasion (with a particular explanation that Ms T gave Blue Fish in writing) she was 
not using an overdraft and the bank statements do not show any significant cause for 
concern. She was indeed using several short term and/or high cost lenders, but I dont find 
any evidence of dependence on that borrowing, or an inability to manage the repayments.
Ms Ts credit check did show several defaulted accounts, and a County Court Judgement 
(CCJ) against her. However, these seem to have all occurred in 2004  nearly six years 
before this application. So I dont think that those fairly historic issues should have led Blue 
Fish to refuse an application what was a relatively modest loan over a comparatively short term.
So, in the round, and taking into account all the circumstances, I think the checks that Blue 
Fish completed were proportionate and suggested that Ms T was in a position to be able to 
sustainably repay this loan.
It therefore follows that I dont plan to uphold this complaint.
In her response to my provisional decision, Ms T expressed her frustration at what she 
perceives as me siding with Blue Fish, contrary to what our investigator thought about the 
case. And that she has read many negative reviews of Blue Fish on the internet, which bad 
practice Im allowing it to continue by not upholding her complaint.
I entirely understand her feelings, and recognise the disappointment my decision will 
bring. However, my role as an Ombudsman is to consider the individual facts of each 
case put before me, in the context of the applicable rules and regulations, and decide 
whether anything has gone wrong in that case. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
whilst Blue Fish didnt do a good job of assessing the information it gathered about Ms Ts 
financial circumstances, I dont think that caused her to lose out. All the information at the 
time of the application suggested the lending was affordable and sustainable for Ms T, 
and she hasnt been able to provide anything to the contrary.
It follows, therefore, that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the attached provisional decision, I do 
not uphold this complaint and Blue Fish does not need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman