DRN-2062103
The complaint
Mr S complains that he wasnt told in advance of a £99 annual fee being applied to his 
Creation Financial Services Limited credit card account. He wants it refunded and 
compensation. 
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S accepts he was aware that this credit card had an annual fee of £99. But he 
says Creation shouldve told him in advance that the second annual fee would be 
taken.
The terms and conditions of the account say, amongst other things, that the £99 
annual fee applies to the account when opened and annually thereafter. It isnt a 
requirement that Creation give advance notice of applying the fee on each 
anniversary of the account being opened. 
As the account was still open at the relevant time, I think Creation has acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account by applying the second annual fee to Mr 
Ss account when and how it did. And I dont think I can therefore reasonably require 
it to now refund the second £99 fee as Mr S would like.
Mr S has also said he received emails from Creation up to August 2020 which shows 
the account remained open to use after Creation said the account was closed. But on 
balance Im not convinced that is the case.
Creation has shown, and I accept, that Mr Ss account was closed, as requested, on 
23 June 2020 and it isnt in use. Its also clarified that, even when closed, limited 
access to the account remained online, for example, to view previous statements. 
The email Mr S has supplied from August 2020 appears to be a marketing email and 
I think that was likely sent because of a delay in Creations system stopping planned 
marketing emails after the account was in fact closed.
If Mr S continues to receive marketing emails or has new evidence that the account 
remains open, he should contact Creation in the first instance. 
Creation has accepted that its customer service couldve been better at times and it 
says it has offered to pay £50 compensation to Mr S as a gesture of goodwill for this. 
That seems fair. 
Overall, although I recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling, I dont think on balance that I 
can fairly or reasonably ask Creation to do anything more or differently, including 
paying any additional compensation.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr S to decide, if he 
hasnt done so already, if he now wants to accept Creations offer to pay him £50 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Creation Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman