DRN-2116710
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the service they received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
during their annual boiler service. Theyre also unhappy with the service they received 
afterwards. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held a HomeCare policy with British Gas Insurance Limited  hereafter 
referred to as British Gas. 
In December 2018 Mr and Mrs H were having building work undertaken at a property that 
they own and rent out. During the course of the works a new boiler was fitted and the flue 
was incorrectly sealed by the builders Mr and Mr H had instructed to install a new roof. 
On 15 January 2019 a British Gas engineer attended Mr and Mrs Hs rental property in order 
to undertake an annual boiler service and gas safety check. A gas safety certificate was 
issued the following day, which confirmed the boiler was operating safely and properly.
During May 2019 a British Gas engineer attended Mr and Mrs Hs rental property to inspect 
their boiler as it had broken down. They informed them that the boiler flue was incorrectly 
sealed  it wasnt terminating properly and inappropriate fittings had been used. So, the 
boiler wasnt meeting gas safety regulations. 
As the boiler fault had been caused by the builders whod been working at Mr and Mrs Hs 
rental property the work needed to rectify the problem wasnt covered under their HomeCare 
policy. And the engineer advised Mr and Mrs H how to resolve the issue and provided them 
with a quote for the remedial work required.
Mr and Mrs H complained about what theyd been told by the engineer because their boiler 
had been certified as safe and working correctly four months earlier following a service and 
safety check. Mr and Mrs H said thered been no interference with the boiler after the date of 
the January inspection. So, they felt the engineer that attended their property in January 
2019 should have pointed out to them that their boiler was unsafe at the time of the service. 
Mr and Mrs H said if theyd been made aware of the problem with their boiler at the time of 
the service this would have enabled them to ask their builders to put right the problem theyd 
caused. And they felt disadvantaged as their builders were refusing to accept responsibility 
for what had happened to the boiler given that it had been certified to be in proper working 
order after the building works had been completed. 
When British Gas responded to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint it explained that it wasnt 
responsible for the condition of the flue. So, any remedial work would incur a charge as it fell 
outside of remit of Mr and Mrs Hs HomeCare policy. But it accepted theyd experienced 
poor customer service and distress and inconvenience due to the engineer that serviced 
their boiler in January 2019 not identifying an error with the flue. And it sent them a cheque 
for £50 to recognise that.Being dissatisfied with British Gas response to their complaint Mr and Mrs H referred it to 
our service. Our investigator assessed the information provided but didnt think British Gas 
were responsible for the cost of repairing the boiler. They initially thought the compensation 
payment British Gas had made by cheque was fair and reasonable. However, they later 
recommended that British Gas pay a further £150 compensation to reflect the impact of the 
error it made. But British Gas disagreed with our investigators recommendation and asked 
for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to assess whether I think British Gas made a mistake, or treated Mr and Mrs 
H unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. So, Ive thought very carefully about 
what happened.
Its not in dispute that the problem with the boiler was caused by the builders that undertook 
work at Mr and Mrs Hs rental property and that this damage occurred prior to the January 
2019 boiler inspection taking place. I say this because Mr and Mrs H have provided 
evidence to British Gas, which its accepted, that shows the work to the new roof was 
completed by their builders in December 2018. And this is the work that caused the problem 
with the boiler.
I understand that Mr and Mrs H want British Gas to cover the cost of the boiler repair. But, 
having seen the terms and conditions of their HomeCare policy I cant fairly ask it to do that 
here. I say this because their policy excludes deliberate damage or faults created by 
someone else you have used for repairs.
It appears Mr and Mrs H held a HomeCare policy for some time prior to this problem arising. 
So, Im satisfied they ought to have been aware of what their policy covered. And, even if 
they werent, I can see their renewal quote set out clearly the policy exclusions. And this 
means I think British Gas took reasonable steps to outlined what was included in the 
HomeCare policy Mr and Mrs H purchased. 
As British Gas isnt responsible for the condition of Mr and Mrs Hs boiler I cant find that it 
acted unfairly in declining to cover the cost of repairing the boiler  particularly when its 
excluded under the policy terms. So, Mr and Mrs H will need to take up the cost of their 
boiler repair with their builders if they wish to pursue this further.
After careful consideration of the available evidence, its clear to me that the British Gas 
servicing engineer missed an opportunity to diagnose the fault with the boiler, and identify an 
at risk situation, in January 2019. It was reasonable for Mr and Mrs H to expect British Gas 
to undertake a proper and thorough inspection of their boiler prior to issuing a gas safety 
certificate. And I can understand their disappointment and frustration when they learnt, four 
months after the service took place, their boiler had been unsafe for some time. They had 
responsibilities as landlords to provide a safe home to their tenants and the issues with their 
boiler should have been identified at the time of the service.
Ive thought about the prejudice Mr and Mrs H suffered as a result of the delay in finding out 
about the problems with their boiler. The builders that had undertaken work at their rental 
property wont now remedy the boiler fault. Mr and Mrs H said this was because the warranty 
period they had in which to raise concerns with the work undertaken was three months. So, 
it had lapsed by the time they were made aware that the builders had caused the issue with 
the boiler. That isnt Mr and Mrs Hs fault. Based on the action Mr and Mrs H took after being made aware of the problem with their 
boiler I can see they were proactive. And so, Im persuaded theyd have raised the boiler 
fault with their builders within the warranty window if it had been identified during the January 
2019 service.
Ive seen evidence that Mr and Mrs Hs builders were still completing work to other parts of 
their rental property in January 2019. Its therefore likely the builders would have remedied 
the boiler fault prior to completing their work if it had been brought to their attention while 
they were still on site.
I appreciate that British Gas has confirmed in writing to Mr and Mrs H that the boiler fault 
was present at the time of the service. And this can, of course, be used by Mr and Mrs H to 
pursue their builders for the costs of resolving the fault they caused. But I think the four 
month delay in finding out about the issue with the boiler put Mr and Mrs H at a significant 
disadvantage when they asked their builders to repair the fault theyd created. I say this 
because the builders completed the works that caused the problem in December 2018 and 
have seen a gas safety certificate dated about a month afterwards, which certifies the boiler 
as safe and in good working order. I can therefore see why theyve denied liability for what 
happened and been unresponsive to Mr and Mrs Hs efforts to contact them. I think if British 
Gas had identified the fault with the boiler in January 2019 Mr and Mrs H would have been 
able to resolve matters much more easily with their builders. And it's unfair that they're now 
suffering prejudice due to an error made by British Gas.
Putting things right
British Gas accepts that the service Mr and Mrs H received was poor and it's already sent 
them a cheque for £50 as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience they were caused. Our investigator initially felt this compensation amount was 
fair and reasonable. However, they later issued a second view in which they recommended 
British Gas increase that payment to £200. 
Its clear British Gas feels the payment its already offered Mr and Mrs H adequately reflects 
their experience here. And it thinks our investigators recommendation is unfair and 
disproportionate. So, Ive thought carefully about what a fair and reasonable offer to put 
things right looks like here.
We arent here to punish businesses. And when our service considers an award of 
compensation we look at the impact of a business mistake on the consumer.
Mr and Mrs H told our investigator that someone could have been harmed and something 
dangerous could have happened as a result of the boiler being unsafe. But, our service has 
to consider what actually happened. So, we cant award compensation based on 
hypothetical and speculative situations.
Ive already outlined the extent to which Mr and Mrs H were inconvenienced by British Gas 
error in not identifying the boiler fault during the January 2019 service. And, having had 
regard to the impact that error had on Mr and Mrs H, Im not persuaded the compensation 
already paid adequately recognises the trouble and upset they would have experienced.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied that the additional £150 
compensation recommended by our investigator would be fair and reasonable here. This 
takes the overall award to £200 and its what I would have directed British Gas to pay had no 
offer been made. Its also in line with awards made by this service in comparable 
circumstances. I understand that British Gas has already sent Mr and Mrs H a cheque in the sum of £50. So, 
it should now pay them an additional £150 compensation to resolve this complaint. Thats all 
Im going to tell British Gas to do here. Im not going to ask it to refund the HomeCare 
premiums Mr and Mrs H paid  as they wanted for the reasons the investigator outlined in 
their view. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited 
should pay them an additional £150 in compensation to resolve this part of their complaint 
(taking the total amount to £200).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman