DRN-4420677
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money 
once hed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In May 2022 Mr R received a phone call from someone who Ill refer to as the scammer 
who claimed to work for company P. He told Mr R he had £160,000 left in bitcoin from an 
investment hed made several years ago, and they had managed to trace the funds back to 
him. The scammer knew how much Mr R had invested and he believed what he was told 
because he had previously invested in cryptocurrency and had been unable to access his 
profits.
Mr R looked on Ps website, which looked extremely professional and featured functions 
such as live quotes, market, and pending orders as well as different charts and graphs. P 
also had a London address and several contact numbers and email addresses. He 
confirmed he wanted to go ahead and was allocated a senior financial advisor who sent a 
letter of guarantee confirming he would be able to withdraw the funds once hed proven his 
liquidity. He was also told he would be assigned a money laundering reporting officer to 
assist him during the process of releasing the cryptocurrency from Blockchain to his bank 
account.
The advisor asked Mr R to download Team Viewer, explaining they needed a record of the 
transfers to prove the deposits were being made correctly. He also instructed him to open 
accounts with two Electronic Money Institutions Ill refer to as (R) and (W) as this would 
make the transfers easier. And he advised him to first purchase cryptocurrency through a 
cryptocurrency exchange company and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. 
 
Between 6 June 2022 and 9 September 2022, Mr R made thirteen payments from his 
NatWest account to W totalling £116,518.30. On 6 June 2022, he transferred £2,000, 
£10,000 and £8,000 from his NatWest account. It intervened twice on 6 June 2022 and the 
payments were released. But he tried to pay a further £20,000 on 7 June 2022 and this 
payment was blocked. During the calls that followed, Mr R told NatWest he was lending 
money to a friend in Portugal for mortgage fees and medical expenses, and the fraud team 
refused to release the payment on the basis it could be a scam.
Mr Rs account was blocked for a period until 29 July 2022 when he made two payments of 
£1,005 and £18,900. On 1 August 2022 he made a further payment of £20,000 which was 
blocked by NatWest. During the call he told it the purpose of the payments and was warned 
it could be a scam, but he confirmed he wanted to go ahead. He went on to make a further 
four payments and realised hed been scammed when was told his investment had risen to 
£773,899.79 and he would have to pay 25% of this sum for the funds to be released.
Mr R complained to NatWest arguing it had failed to identify the payments were unusual or 
provide adequate scam education. NatWest said it had acted on Mr Rs instructions to make 
the payments, he had failed to carry out due diligence and it wasnt the point of loss, so it 
was unable to assist.  It said it places appropriate and relevant warning messages across its 
online banking facility and before making a payment or adding a new payee, a message is 
displayed to warn customers about the types of scams it sees. 
It also said the payments were made to accounts in Mr Rs own name, so it was unable to 
recover funds as it wasnt the point of the loss, and they werent covered under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code.
Mr R wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. He said NatWest did provide a warning when he made the payment of 
£20,000, but he was entirely under the spell of the scammer, so the warning was ineffective. 
He said it had multiple opportunities to stop the payments going through and should 
therefore refund the money he lost.
Mr Rs representative said NatWest should have intervened on 6 July 2022 when he made 
the first payment of £10,000, or on 1 August 2022 when he paid £20,000. They said there 
were obvious signs the payments were fraudulent including the fact they were large 
payments to a new payee made in quick succession. And Mr R normally made low 
payments from the account, so the behaviour was unusual.
They said NatWest should have asked Mr R what the payments were for and whether hed 
been approached or offered an investment, which would have led to more questions such as 
how he found out about P, how P found his contact details, whether hed researched P, 
whether hed checked the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website, whether hed 
obtained independent financial advice, whether hed been asked to download AnyDesk and 
whether hed been promised unrealistic returns.
The representative said Mr R wasnt prompted to give false answers, so NatWest would 
have discovered P had the hallmarks of a scam and properly cautioned him about the 
prevalence of investment and recovery scams and the risks inherent in making payments to 
online recovery companies, which would have caused him to reconsider making the 
payments.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She noted Mr R was given a 
new payee warning when he made the first payment of £2,000 on 6 June 2022, which she 
didnt think was sufficiently tailored. But she didnt think NatWest needed to intervene at that 
point because the account had history of transactions of similar value, so she was satisfied it 
had done enough.
The second payment was blocked. Our investigator accepted the payment was unusual and 
she didnt think the warning NatWest gave during the call was effective as it didnt relate to 
impersonation scams. But she didnt think it had missed an opportunity to uncover the scam 
because Mr R didnt disclose the involvement of the third party. And based on what took 
place during the later calls, she didnt think a better intervention would have made a 
difference to the outcome.
During the call that took place when Mr R made the third payment, he confirmed hed 
received the first two payments into the beneficiary account and denied hed been put under 
pressure to make the payment or that he was told to lie. Our investigator didnt think 
NatWest provided an effective scam warning during the call as it related to a Police/HMRC 
impersonation scam but based on what took place during the later calls, she didnt think a 
more effective warning would have made a difference.In support of these findings, our investigator explained there was a further call on 7 June 
2022 when Mr R tried to pay £20,000 to W. During the call he was asked about the loans 
hed received and why he was sending funds to W. He said he was transferring money to a 
friend in Portugal because he was helping him to pay his mortgage. NatWest refused to 
authorise the payment and asked Mr R to provide details about the reason for the payment. 
In a further call on 9 June 2022 Mr R said he was helping his cousin to pay for medical 
expenses. NatWest refused to process the payment and asked him to provide evidence of 
the hospital bills.
Our investigator explained NatWest should have intervened again on 29 July 2022 when Mr 
R paid £18,900 as it was a high value payment to a beneficiary it already had concerns with, 
but she didnt think this would have made a difference as Mr R had gone ahead with the 
previous payments despite warnings from NatWest and had made payments from his W 
account totalling £119,000 on 13 June 2022 and 14 June 2022. And once his NatWest 
account was unblocked, he used that account to make further payments towards the scam.
Mr R has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He has argued that 
Banking Protocol should have been enacted and NatWest should have called him into the 
branch to ensure he was fully aware of the decisions he was making, which would have 
prevented him from making further payments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr R has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr R says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. NatWest had said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the payments were to an account in Mr Rs own name, and Im satisfied thats 
fair.
Ive thought about whether NatWest could have done more to recover Mr Rs payments 
when he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the 
scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. NatWest) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr R).
Mr Rs own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Rs payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that NatWests decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.Im satisfied Mr R authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr R is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded this was a scam. But, 
although Mr R didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. NatWest is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether NatWest could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
NatWest had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it did enough to warn Mr R when he tried to make 
the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
NatWest to intervene with a view to protecting Mr R from financial harm due to fraud. 
Mr R was given a pop-up warning on 6 June 2022 when he set up the new payee and made 
the first payment of £2,000. Ive considered the nature of the payment in the context of 
whether it was unusual for the spending on the account, and I dont think it was. Mr R paid 
£14,350 on 15 September 2021, £1,218.30 on 27 September 2021, £1,309.62 on 5 January 
2022, £3,800 on 25 February 2022 and £1,099 on 17 May 2022, so £2,000 wasnt unusual 
and Halifax didnt need to intervene.
Later the same day, Mr R made a further payment of £10,000 and NatWest intervened and 
asked a series of questions before releasing the payment. I agree with our investigator that 
the warning wasnt relevant but, considering he wasnt open with the call handler about the 
purpose of the payment, I dont think it was unreasonable that NatWest failed to provide a 
more tailored warning. 
The second call took place on 6 June 2022 when Mr R made a payment of £8,000. During 
the call Mr R said he wasnt under pressure from a third party and that he hadnt been told to 
lie. Ive considered the nature of the questions he was asked, and I dont think they were 
sufficiently robust or probing because he wasnt asked why he was making the payment. 
However, based on the responses Mr R gave to questions he was asked during the later 
calls, I dont think hed have answered truthfully if the call handler had properly questioned 
him during this call.
When Mr R tried to transfer £20,000 on 7 June 202, the payment was blocked, and he was 
questioned about the purpose of the payment. Mr R said he was lending money to a 
friend/cousin in Portugal who needed it for various reasons including paying his mortgage and the call handler refused to approve the payment. In a further call on 9 June 2022, he 
said the money was to pay for medical bills for his friend/cousin in Portugal, but he was 
unable to produce evidence of the medical bills and so the call handler refused to release 
the payment.
Based on the conversations that took place during the calls Mr R had with NatWest on 7 
June 2022, 8 June 2022, and 9 June 2022, I dont think more probing questions on 6 June 
2022 would have made a difference to the outcome. This is because when he was asked 
about the purpose of the payment, he didnt tell the truth and he maintained the explanation 
in the fact of further questions, meaning it was impossible for NatWest to identify the nature 
of the scam. For the same reason, while I agree NatWest ought to have intervened on 29 
July 2022, I dont think this would have made any difference to the outcome. 
Mr R has NatWest should have called him into the branch to discuss the payments, but I 
dont think this would have made any difference to his decision to go ahead with the 
payments because he continued to make payments from his NatWest after his account was 
blocked. He has explained he believed what he was told by the scammers as he had 
previously invested in cryptocurrency, he was impressed by Ps website and had received 
documentation confirming the agreement. And the scammers called him every day with 
updates on the progress of his investments which made him feel they a solid working 
relationship. And because he wasnt honest about the purpose of the payments, I dont think 
there was anything it could reasonably have done to change his mind.
So, while I think NatWest could have done more when it intervened on 6 June 2022 and that 
it should have intervened again on 29 July 2022, I dont think this represented a missed 
opportunity to prevent his loss and so I cant fairly ask it to do anything to resolve this 
complaint.
Recovery
NatWest didnt attempt to recover the funds because they were sent into an account in Mr 
Rs name and control, and Im satisfied that was fair because he moved the funds on from 
his W almost immediately.
Compensation
Im not asking NatWest to pay Mr R any compensation or legal fees.
Overall, Im satisfied NatWest took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr R has 
lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think NatWest is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman