DRN-3786531
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly recalled 
funds provided through a Bounce Back Loan.
Mr F is Ds director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
D banked with Barclays and successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of 
£50,000, which was drawn down on 19 May 2020.
A few days later, Barclays conducted a review of Ds account and its Bounce Back Loan 
application. It restricted Ds access to the account while it did so. 
Barclays concluded that it shouldnt have given the loan to D and decided to reverse it. The 
bank removed £49,999.96 from Ds account on 29 May, with a view to repaying the loan. It 
also removed the remaining account balance of around £11,000, The bank account was 
closed on 10 September, and the £11,000 was belatedly released to D on 28 January 2021. 
While Barclays intended to settle the Bounce Back Loan, it did not do so correctly and the 
account remained live. So it continued to pursue D for repayment, with the debt accruing 
interest and ultimately being transferred to a debt collection agency.
Mr F doesnt think Barclays has treated D fairly. He says, in summary, that:
D was entitled to the Bounce Back Loan it had obtained and Barclays removal of it 
caused the company severe difficulties. He had to obtain alternative funding at a 
much higher cost to keep the business running. And D was left without funds to pay 
its corporation tax on time, incurring late payment charges and interest.
The £11,000 balance comprised an HMRC furlough grant, which D was left unable to 
access for several months. This meant D couldnt pay its employees, which in turn 
led to them refusing to work and the company missing out on jobs and, therefore, 
revenue. And he had to spend a lot of time and effort chasing Barclays up to arrange 
the release of these funds.
While the bank account remained open, but with the funds having been removed, D 
incurred additional charges and interest as Direct Debit payments were honoured 
and this took the account into an unauthorised overdraft.  
Barclays has wrongly pursued D for repayment of the Bounce Back Loan, despite the 
funds having been returned.
He is concerned that Barclays treated D this way because of his nationality. This, and 
the matter as a whole, has caused him significant distress and impacted his mental 
health.
Barclays says that all of its actions were taken in line with the applicable terms and 
conditions, and that it reached the right to decision to withdraw both the account and the 
loan from D in the circumstances. It has accepted that there was a delay in arranging the 
closure of the account, which ought also to have been processed on 29 May. And it has 
recently confirmed that the Bounce Back Loan wasnt settled correctly either, which it is now 
attending to.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ds complaint last month  setting out what I thought and 
inviting both parties to respond with anything else they wanted me to take into account 
before I made a final decision. I said:
The recall of the Bounce Back Loan
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, Barclays was entitled  
and expected  to continue to keep matters under review. This is in line with its anti-
fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and 
regulatory requirements.
Upon review, Barclays concluded that it shouldnt have approved Ds Bounce Back 
Loan application in the first place. Ive reviewed the basis on which it reached this 
decision, and I think it was reasonable. Lenders were expected to carry out certain 
checks, including fraud, Know Your Customer and anti-money laundering checks  
and the bank has shown that Ds application failed these. 
In addition, I dont think  from what Ive seen  that D was entitled to the loan 
amount it obtained. Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant 
could borrow up to a maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. So, to be eligible for 
a loan of £50,000, D needed a turnover of at least £200,000. Businesses established 
after 1 January 2019  as D was  were entitled to use an estimate, but the 
application form explained that this needed to be the estimated annual turnover from 
the date you started your business. D was established on 31 July 2019, and its 
income from that date until it applied for the loan on 18 May 2020 was around 
£38,000. While I do appreciate that the guidance on this point couldve been clearer 
and that Mr F may have used the figure in good faith, I dont think that £200,000 
represented a reasonable estimate.
It is regrettable that Barclays approved the loan initially, only to subsequently reverse 
this decision and recall it. But the terms and conditions allowed the bank to take the 
action it did, and I think it was a reasonable course of action in the circumstances. It 
was able to recover the loan funds swiftly, before D utilised any of them  thereby 
limiting any adverse impact that this would have on the company. 
While I appreciate D may have been intending to rely on the funds, Ive not seen that 
it took any action in such reliance (for example, by entering into a contract that it was 
then unable to fulfil)  or that it incurred any costs in doing so. And while I recognise 
that this will have left D unable to obtain another Bounce Back Loan elsewhere, I 
dont think it wouldve been able to do so anyway  given that any other application 
wouldve likely failed for the same reasons that Barclays ultimately declined its 
request.
It follows that Im not intending to uphold this aspect of the complaint or instruct 
Barclays to compensate D for any losses arising from being without the Bounce Back 
Loan.It is evident, however, that Barclays made errors in closing down the Bounce Back 
Loan account once it had decided to terminate the agreement. Although it removed 
the funds from Ds account on 29 May, the bank failed to apply these to the loan to 
settle it. The loan agreement has, therefore, remained in place. Interest has accrued 
on the debt. And the bank has continued to pursue D for repayment, as have debt 
collectors on the banks behalf. Adverse information has also been recorded about 
the unpaid debt with credit reference agencies. 
D shouldnt have incurred any additional interest or charges in respect of the loan, as 
it shouldnt have been provided and, in any event, Barclays ought to have been 
repaid it on 29 May. So the bank will now need to settle the debt and write off or 
otherwise cover any additional amounts that have been applied to it. It should also 
instruct the removal of all adverse credit information that has been recorded in 
respect of the loan.
In addition, I can see that this aspect of things has caused D some avoidable 
inconvenience. Mr F has had to follow up with Barclays unnecessarily, trying to 
explain what has happened and why D doesnt owe the bank any money  and in an 
attempt to protect the companys credit rating. So Ive factored this into my proposed 
award for compensation, which Ill come on to below.
The restriction and closure of the bank account
While Barclays was conducting its review, it applied a restriction to Ds bank account. 
The terms and conditions of the account entitled it to do this, and I think it was 
reasonable in light of its concerns as to Ds eligibility for the loan it had obtained. 
Barclays was also entitled to end its relationship with D and close the account, and 
theres no basis on which I could say that decision was unreasonable.
The review was concluded swiftly  having begun around 22 May and completed on 
29 May, when the bank decided to reverse the Bounce Back Loan. I think D ought to 
have been able to access its funds from 29 May onwards, but it couldnt  because 
Barclays made mistakes in how it processed the closure of Ds account. Im not 
wholly persuaded it was reasonable for Barclays to have removed funds from Ds 
account other than the Bounce Back Loan, which were evidently received through a 
furlough grant. Either way, it seems to me that D ought to have been able to access 
these shortly after 29 May once the bank had completed its review. But this wasnt 
possible. While the banks records of its actions are limited, it is accepted that there 
was a delay in processing the closure of Ds account (which was only done some 
four months later, in September). And the funds were only released to D in January 
2021, after Mr F visited a branch. Again, Im not convinced that ought to have been 
necessary in the circumstances here.
As I think D was deprived the use of its funds from 29 May 2020 until their release on 
28 January 2021, Ive thought about the impact this had on the company. Mr F has 
explained that D was unable to pay staff, which in turn meant that it missed out on 
work. Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence to confirm this, or to show what 
losses D sustained in this respect. Mr F says D had to borrow money from third 
parties at higher costs, but Ive not seen that the company suffered any losses in this 
respect either. The loan agreement hes provided is in his own name  rather than 
Ds  and Ive not seen that it was used for the specific purpose of paying staff, as 
the furlough grant was. I can, however, see that D was caused some inconvenience as a result of being 
without its funds  in having to chase matters up with Barclays far more than was 
necessary. And I can accept at face value that there wouldve been some impact to 
Ds operations  and particularly its ability to pay, and retain staff  in the months it 
was left unable to access the funds it had held with Barclays. So to compensate the 
company for this, and the subsequent inconvenience it experienced as a result of the 
banks failure to settle the Bounce Back Loan facility correctly, I am intending to 
require Barclays to pay D £750.
I can also see that, with the account remaining open but with funds having been 
removed, at least one payment was taken that took the account into an overdrawn 
position that incurred interest. I dont think its fair that D incurs any additional interest 
or charges in the circumstances, so Barclays should write off or reimburse any debit 
interest that was charged between 29 May 2020 and 10 September when the 
account was belatedly closed.
Lastly, I should say that I am sorry to learn of the toll that these matters have taken 
on Mr F. I dont doubt that they have caused him some understandable worry  and 
while Ive not found the bank to be at fault in all aspects of the matter, it did make 
some mistakes that wouldve exacerbated his concerns. But as D is the eligible 
complainant under our rules, I cant make an award to Mr F in his personal capacity 
for any distress he was caused by these issues. I should also say that Ive carefully 
considered Mr Fs concern that Barclays actions were motivated in some way by his 
nationality. And Im sorry that hes had cause to even consider this. But having 
thoroughly reviewed the basis of the banks decisions, Im satisfied that they were the 
result of its reasonable concerns as to Ds eligibility for the loan it had obtained as 
Ive explained above.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. We didnt receive a response from D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with neither party having provided me with anything else to take into 
account in light of my provisional decision, Ive not seen reason to reach a different 
conclusion. 
So this final decision simply confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Settle the outstanding Bounce Back Loan, writing off any amounts over and above 
the £50,000 principal;
Instruct the removal of all adverse information recorded by credit reference agencies 
in connection with the Bounce Back Loan; 
Write off or reimburse, as may be appropriate, any debit interest charged to D 
between 29 May 2020 and 10 September 2020; and
Pay D compensation of £750.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman