DRN-3555020
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) have refused to refund him for 
transactions which he says he didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Mr B was incarcerated from June 2017 to June 2021. Shortly after his release from prison, 
he saw there were several debit card transactions and online banking faster payments made 
from his current account between June 2017 to July 2018. These disputed transactions 
amounted to around £21,000 in total. Mr B asked Halifax to refund him as he didnt make or 
authorise these transactions.
Halifax gave Mr B a refund for the debit card transactions of approximately £7,000. But they 
declined to reimburse him for the online banking faster payments. Mr B was unhappy with 
this and raised a complaint. He couldnt understand why his claim for the debit card 
transactions were refunded but the faster payments were declined. He explained again that 
he was in prison at the time of the transactions and didnt authorise them.
Halifax explained they looked at payments made by debit cards separately to the faster 
payments. They said they held Mr B liable for the faster payments as these were made via 
his online banking which wouldve required Mr Bs login credentials, which only he should 
know. They also said that Mr B had made regular payments to the same payees as the 
disputed transactions prior to June 2017. They considered this to be a civil dispute and they 
couldnt rule out the possibility that Mr B had given his authority for this account to be 
operated by his partner or someone else whilst he was in prison.
They also explained that a new debit card and Personal Identification Number (PIN) was 
ordered in July 2017, which was then subsequently used to carry out the disputed debit card 
transactions. Since Mr B wasnt around to receive the card and PIN, they thought it couldve 
only been received by someone else. Because they couldnt safely say Mr B gave his 
authority for this, and couldnt have made the transactions himself, he was provided with a 
refund of the debit card transactions.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. He explained that his ex-partner (Miss B) or Miss 
Bs father (Mr B1) may have been able to access his account while he was in prison. He said 
that the police gave Miss B his mobile phone which had his mobile banking app set up  so 
all she wouldve required was his memorable word. He believes Miss B may have been able 
to guess the memorable word or heard him use this while he was speaking to Halifax. He 
said she knew everything about him as they were in a long-term relationship and living 
together at the time. 
He also suggested it was possible that Mr B1 contacted Halifax impersonating him to gain 
access to the account. He feels Halifax shouldve spotted unusual activity on his account as 
he doesnt normally move money from his savings accounts. He also thinks the frequency 
and number of payments were out of the ordinary and Halifax shouldve protected his 
account.
Our investigator said Mr B enabled Miss B to operate the account in his absence, by 
allowing the police to give her his mobile phone. She didnt think an unauthorised third party 
would make deposits into the account, and the faster payments didnt seem out of the 
ordinary as similar transactions were made to the beneficiaries previously. She didnt feel 
that online banking information wouldve been easily guessed without Mr Bs involvement 
and that Mr B had likely given Miss B his online banking details which allowed her to make 
the payments. She said there wasnt any evidence to support Mr B trying to end this 
authority by contacting Halifax. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax have already refunded Mr B for the disputed debit card transactions. I can see a 
credit of £6,975.47 was applied to his account on 25 August 2021. If Mr B disagrees with 
how this refund amount was calculated or the amount deposited into his account, he should 
contact Halifax directly to discuss this further. For clarity, my decision focuses on the online 
banking faster payments and whether Halifax have fairly held Mr B liable for them. 
Mr B was in prison when the disputed transactions were made  so I doubt that he carried 
out the disputed transfers himself. However, under the relevant rules, Mr B can still be held 
liable for these payments if they were made by a third party with his permission. 
Halifax have provided sufficient evidence to show that the disputed transactions were made 
using Mr Bs online banking username. On balance, Im satisfied the access to Mr Bs online 
banking and faster payments from his account were properly authenticated as it wouldve 
required his online banking security credentials.
All the disputed faster payments were made either to Miss B or Mr B1. Mr B has confirmed 
he hadnt shared his online banking credentials with anyone, nor had he written them down 
anywhere. So, Ive thought about the explanation Mr B has provided for how his online 
banking details were accessed by either Miss B or Mr B1.
I dont disagree that it was possible for Mr Bs online banking credentials to have been 
compromised in the way hes suggested. I say this because Mr B has told us that he lived 
with Miss B and her family. All correspondence from Halifax was sent to this address while 
he was still in prison  so, information about his account details, transaction history etc. 
wouldve been accessible by Miss B and Mr B1. They also had Mr Bs mobile phone, so they 
couldve received any calls or texts from Halifax to reset online banking credentials. 
Unfortunately, due to the time thats passed since the disputed transactions, Halifax has 
limited information available about Mr Bs online banking activity. For example, evidence of 
whether there were any requests to reset Mr Bs online banking credentials around June 
2017.
But this doesnt mean Halifax should give Mr B a refund. Where theres insufficient or 
inconclusive evidence, I have to take into account all the available evidence and wider 
circumstances to decide what I think on balance is most likely.Having considered Mr Bs testimony, the timeline of events and looking at the transactions, 
Im not persuaded his online banking credentials were compromised. I think its more likely 
than not that Mr B gave Miss B access to his online banking.
Mr B has told us that he received a letter from Miss B in January 2018 ending their 
relationship. It seems to me that it was at this point Miss B likely took advantage of Mr Bs 
circumstances and drained his accounts of all his funds. Im sympathetic to Mr Bs situation, 
but by giving Miss B access to his online banking, which is what I think most likely 
happened, he has effectively authorised all the transactions she carried out, even if he 
wasnt aware of or agreed to all of them  in particular around the time their relationship 
ended and soon after.
The first disputed faster payments out of Mr Bs account were made on 13 June 2017, which 
was very shortly after Mr B was sent to prison. At the time, Mr B wasnt convicted or 
sentenced. 
I find it unlikely that Miss B or Mr B1 gained access to Mr Bs account so soon after he was 
taken into custody, when they didnt know for certain at the time about whether Mr B would 
be convicted and if so, how long he might spend in prison. 
And if they gained access to Mr Bs account without his consent, then Id expect them to 
have drawn out as much funds as possible, and as quickly as possible. This is because they 
wouldnt have known when Mr B would contact Halifax to let them know he was in prison or 
seek to appoint a power of attorney. 
But the transaction history doesnt support this. Ill explain why. The balance of Mr Bs 
current account was around £4,000 on 13 June 2017. He also had a large balance of around 
£14,000 across his savings accounts. But only £1,000 was transferred from his savings 
account to his current account which was followed by two payments of £300 each to Miss B. 
Since there was enough balance in the current account to make the two £300 payments, I 
dont think there was any plausible reason for an unauthorised party to transfer £1,000 from 
the savings account to the current account. Its more likely whoever had access was helping 
Mr B manage his accounts, and likely with his authority.
There were also three further payments to Miss B for £400 on 14 June 2017, £10 on 26 June 
2017 and £120 on 30 June 2017. I think its more likely than not that Miss B wouldve 
withdrawn more funds from the account if shed accessed Mr Bs account without his 
authority.
The payments to Miss B prior to Mr B going to prison was around £300 per month on 
average, except in May 2017 when payments totalling £2,133 were made. The payment 
pattern to Miss B didnt vary significantly after he went to prison and averaged at around 
£400 each month until December 2017. And from January 2018 onwards, the payments to 
Miss B increased. However as explained above, I think its likely at some point in January 
2018 onwards, Miss B made transactions which Mr B didnt agree to or was aware of.
I also dont think its likely that Mr B1 impersonated Mr B to speak to Halifax and gain access 
to his account. I say this because there were no payments made to Mr B1 until 18 July 2017 
which was well over a month from when the first disputed faster payment took place on 13 
June 2017. And even at that point, only a £20 faster payment was made to Mr B1. 
Although there were more payments made to Mr B1 after 18 July 2017, as explained above, 
if access had been gained without Mr Bs authority, then Id have expected to see more payments being made to Mr B1 and sooner, as Mr B1 couldnt have known when his access 
to Mr Bs account wouldve been removed.
The bank statements show that Mr Bs direct debits to his mortgage company and finance 
provider continued to be made from June 2017 until January 2018. This shows that Mr Bs 
credit commitments continued to be managed while he was in prison.
There was also a standing order set up from Mr Bs current account to Miss B for £6.99 per 
month with the reference Laptop repair plan from November 2017 to February 2018. If Miss 
B was acting without Mr Bs authority, I think its unlikely she wouldve set up a standing 
order for a nominal amount of £6.99 when she had access to all his funds at the time.
Looking at Mr Bs current account statement, I can see several cash deposits amounting to 
around £1,000. Mr B has only confirmed one of these cash deposits of £30 as made by his 
mother in December 2018 as a present. He feels Miss B paid money into his account to fool 
everyone and to avoid suspicion.
I dont think its usual behaviour for an unauthorised party to pay cash into the persons 
account they were trying to defraud. I also dont find the explanation Mr B has given to be 
credible, since most of the cash deposits were made between September 2017 to January 
2018, before the majority of the funds were removed from Mr Bs account from January 2018 
onwards. It also wouldnt explain why, in addition to the cash deposits, Mr B1 transferred 
£400 to Mr Bs account in September 2017.
I think all of these factors point to Mr B giving Miss B access to his accounts, to help manage 
his finances, while he was in prison. 
Mr B says that he wrote to Halifax to let them know he was in prison in December 2017, but 
he cant provide sufficient supporting evidence to show he did so. He says he thought 
Halifax had received his letter since he was told a court summons wasnt paid, so he 
presumed his account had been frozen. Halifax records dont show that they received any 
letters from Mr B or any other party to inform them of his change in circumstance.
I dont underestimate that it wouldve been more challenging for Mr B to follow up with 
Halifax, given he was in prison. But I cant agree he wasnt able to reasonably do more. I 
also dont think it was reasonable for Mr B to make the assumption that Halifax had received 
his letter, since he hadnt received an acknowledgement or any correspondence to confirm 
theyd frozen his accounts. 
It was Mr Bs responsibility to have made sure Halifax was made aware that he was in 
prison, so his accounts could be protected from any misuse, and I think this was particularly 
important given that I think Mr B knew the police gave Miss B possession of his mobile 
phone as I think its unlikely to have happened without his consent.
Mr B has explained he also called Halifax from the resettlement department from the second 
prison he was housed in. This wouldve been sometime between February 2018 and 
September 2020. 
Halifax confirmed they were made aware of a compromise of Mr Bs account in July 2018. 
But they arent able to provide any further information about who reported this or what the 
circumstances were. I can see Halifax placed a block on Mr Bs online banking at the time.
I think its possible that this report was likely made by Mr B as this is consistent with when he 
said he called Halifax. However, by this point, it was too late as all the disputed transactions 
had been carried out with most of Mr Bs funds removed from his account. Based on this, I think the evidence points to Mr B contacting Halifax around July 2018 and 
not sooner. And the letter Mr B says he sent in December 2017 is shortly before Miss B 
ended their relationship. Although there isnt sufficient evidence to show Mr B sent this letter 
or that it was received by Halifax, I think the timing of it adds more weight to the likelihood 
that Mr B had given Miss B access to his account. In any event, I think Mr B shouldve done 
more to inform Halifax of his circumstances to protect his account.
 
I dont dispute that at some point in January 2018 (following the end of Mr B and Miss Bs 
relationship), Miss B likely made more payments than Mr B was aware of or agreed to. But 
by allowing Miss B access to his account and not removing this authority (for example, by 
asking Halifax to block his online banking), Mr B is still responsible for those transactions. 
Ive thought about whether Halifax shouldve done more to stop payments being made from 
Mr Bs account. But I dont think they had to. I say this because the disputed transactions 
werent unusual or suspicious in nature and were made to existing payees.
Both Miss B and Mr B1 were known and trusted payees on the account. Mr B had previously 
made several payments to both and had also received credits into the account from them. 
So, payments to them werent so far out of the ordinary spending pattern of the account  
even keeping in mind the higher amounts and increased frequency. I say this because the 
disputed faster payments werent made in a manner which might trigger a security check, for 
example, large amounts in quick succession, and they were all correctly authorised.
The disputed faster payments, in particular from January 2018 when majority of the funds 
were removed, were spread across a number of weeks so I dont think it was unreasonable 
that Halifax didnt flag these transactions as suspicious.
I appreciate Mr B has made the point that he didnt usually withdraw funds from his savings 
account. But I dont think this is enough to say Halifax shouldve spotted the transactions 
were fraudulent. This is because Mr B had previously transferred out of his savings account 
in March and May 2017, albeit not as frequently. And as explained the funds were then sent 
to trusted payees over several weeks.
I know Mr B will be disappointed, but all things considered and on balance, Im satisfied 
theres enough evidence to point him having given Miss B authority to use his account. It 
follows, I think Halifax can fairly hold him liable for the disputed transactions, so I wont be 
asking them to reimburse him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman