DRN-2541234
The complaint
Mrs T makes a number of complaints about Hoist Finance UK Limited following a debt it 
bought.
What happened
Mrs T says Hoist says it bought her debt from a business I will call B. She says Hoist cant 
prove the debt is enforceable or that the correct assignment process has been followed and 
as a result she cant check the amount of the debt which she disputes. Mrs T says her 
Solicitor, on her behalf, has requested documents that Hoist hasnt provided and questions 
the enforceability of the debt and its original affordability.
Mrs T would like the debt written off and £100 compensation.
Hoist says it bought the debt for just under £400 from B in 2017 and it provided information 
about it to Mrs T at the time and says B also provided information. It says Mrs T made 
payments to it for some two years and doesnt accept making a mistake.
Mrs T had brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it was for a court to decide if a debt was enforceable and not us. And thought Hoist 
had provided us with information that Mrs T took out the loan in 2012 and that she had 
received information in 2017 about the assignment. The investigator thought Mrs T didnt 
raise any issues about the debt at the time which suggests she knew what it related to and 
that the balance was correct. The investigator thought Hoist had bought the debt in good 
faith and that any complaint about affordability ought to be made to B. And didnt think Hoist 
had added any charges or fees to the debt.
Mrs T doesnt accept that view and questions why Hoist didnt tell the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs) the debt was unenforceable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Hoist has dealt fairly with this complaint 
and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mrs T will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that this complaint is mainly about the enforceability of the original debt. So, I 
make clear to Mrs T that its not our role to decide on the legal enforceability of a debt and it 
would be for a court to make such a decision. I also make clear to Mrs T that just because a 
debt may or may not be enforceable that doesnt mean that a creditor is obliged to stop 
requesting a payment but may mean that a creditor is prevented from taking court 
proceedings to enforce it.
I have looked at the information Hoist has given us about the debt. I can see that the original 
loan was taken out in Mrs Ts name in 2012 and that she made some required payments. I 
can also see that both B and Hoist wrote to her in 2017 and provided a Notice of the 
Assignment of the debt and that Mrs T then made the required payments for some 
considerable time. If Mrs T disputed the debt or questioned the amount of it, then I would 
have expected her to have raised it at the time with either Hoist or B. Im satisfied that as 
Mrs T made the required payments that on balance provides evidence, she knew this was 
her debt and that she was satisfied in 2017 that she had been provided with sufficient 
information about it.
I have not seen any evidence that Hoist has added any fees or charges to the debt it bought, 
and I dont think its obliged to tell the CRAs that any debt is unenforceable or that 
information would make any difference to a credit file. Im satisfied that Hoist is obliged to 
provide accurate information about a customers account to the CRAs and so I think it likely 
there may be adverse information reported about this debt if Mrs T has stopped the 
payments to Hoist.
Overall, Im satisfied that Hoist provided reasonable and sufficient information to Mrs T about 
the debt it bought which was the same information B gave her. Im satisfied Mrs T must have 
agreed with that view as I dont think she would have made the required payments to Hoist. 
And I have explained why I cant fairly comment on the enforceability of this debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman