DRN-3454283
Complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against her. Shes said that shes been the victim of fraud and its unfair for her to be 
penalised by this marker.
Background
In May 2020, Ms S current account received four payments totalling £1,350.00 into her 
account. These funds were immediately transferred out of her account. £1,050.00 of the 
£1,350.00 went to another account in Ms S name. 
Starling subsequently received notification from three different third-party banks, responsible 
for sending three of the four payments to Ms S account, stating that the payee of the funds 
had reported being scammed into making the transfers to Ms S account. As a result of these 
notifications, Starling reviewed Ms S account and its investigation led it to decide to close 
the account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Upon subsequently learning of the fraud prevention marker, Ms S complained. Starling 
looked at Ms S complaint and didnt uphold it. As Ms S remained dissatisfied she referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms S concerns. She didnt think that Starling had done 
anything wrong or treated Ms S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Starling has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Ms S is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Starling must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Ms S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Starling also needs to have strong evidence to show that Ms S was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Ms S allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Ms S complaint, I need to decide whether I think Starling had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Ms S account and that her actions suggest she 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Starling did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Ms S 
account in June 2021, were fraudulently obtained. So the only matter which remains in 
dispute here is whether Ms S was complicit in allowing her account to receive these 
illegitimate payments. 
Upon discussing the matter with our adjudicator, Ms S said that shed been contacted by 
someone on a well-known messaging app who asked to use her account on a number of 
occasions. She eventually felt sorry for this person and provided them with her online 
banking details, a picture of her card and the online banking details for another account 
when the person got in contact to say that her Starling account wasnt working. Ms S went 
on to say that she didnt know this persons name as their username was just a mixture of 
symbols. And she wasnt able to provide any of the messages concerned.
Ive thought about what Ms S has said. But Im afraid that the available evidence simply 
doesnt support her version of events. Ms S has said that her online banking and card details 
were shared with the person she was speaking to on the messaging app and that she never 
physically met this person. But the transfers concerned didnt take place using online 
banking. They took place using the device Ms S registered for mobile banking when she 
initially set up this account not too long before the activity in question. There is no suggestion 
that Ms S mobile phone was ever out of her possession. So its difficult to understand how 
someone else would have been able to make these transfers.
Furthermore, Ms S says that she provided the other person with the details for her other 
account, which had the majority of the funds transferred to it, only after being told her 
Starling account wasnt working. But this doesnt explain how or why her other account was 
added as a payee on her Starling account before it was in receipt of the fraudulent funds. Its 
also difficult for me to accept that an opportunistic fraudster would have requested details for 
and then transferred funds to another of Ms S accounts, when a different third-party payee 
appears to have been set up at roughly around this time. It would make no sense to transfer 
the funds to another of Ms S accounts rather than the intended recipient when the available 
evidence suggests at least one third-party payee was set up on Ms S account at this time.  
Im afraid the inconsistency in Ms S versions of events, her being unable to provide anything 
to corroborate what shes said and most crucially her version of events not being supported 
by the available evidence, all mean that I cant reasonably conclude she was an unwitting 
participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not she was complicit in her account 
receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Starling did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Ms S account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Ms S was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Starling to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did and Im not upholding Ms S complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Ms S  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
shes said the fraud marker is having on her. But even taking this into account, I cant ignore 
the fact that the available evidence shows its more likely than she was complicit in 
fraudulent activity. I therefore hope Ms S will understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Furthermore, Ms S might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long 
as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman