DRN-3401671
The complaint
Mr Z and Mrs Z complain about their insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
declining a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their property from a leak.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr Z and Mrs Z noticed a leak from the wall in their kitchen. They initially 
contacted RSAs home emergency team, who sent a plumber. He couldnt locate the leak, 
despite breaking into the wall, so advised Mr Z and Mrs Z to contact RSAs claims team. 
RSA asked them to obtain a quote from a firm (or an invoice) for trace and access of the 
leak. Mr Z and Mrs Z did this, though were told by the firm they contacted that they would 
charge £480 (but didnt usually provide a quote). Mr Z and Mrs Z contacted RSA again and 
say they were told to go ahead and send them the invoice once the work was completed. Mr 
Z and Mrs Z did this and submitted the invoice as part of their claim to RSA. However, RSA 
rejected the claim.
Unhappy at their claim being declined, Mr Z and Mrs Z complained to RSA. They upheld the 
complaint in part. They said that when Mr Z and Mrs Z initially contacted their claims team, 
they said the leak was from a pipe behind the wall. Based on this description, the claims 
team advised that the damage would fall under the escape of water section of the policy. 
However, RSA noted that the claims team hadnt made it clear that should the cause of the 
leak not be a pipe, the claim might not be covered. In the event, the cause was a failed seal 
on a window and cracks in the wall. As such, this was considered wear and tear, not an 
escape of water, so the claim was declined. RSA couldnt confirm the second call from Mr Z 
and Mrs Z where they said they were told to go ahead and send the invoice. RSA apologised 
to Mr Z and Mrs Z for not being given a full explanation on the first call to the claims team, 
but maintained their decline of the claim.
Mr Z and Mrs Z then complained to this service. They were unhappy at what they said they 
were told by the claims team to go ahead with the work and send the invoice to RSA  only 
for the claim to be declined. Mr Z and Mrs Z were also unhappy that  while RSA had 
apologised to them for not being given the correct information  they had suffered financially 
by having to pay the £480 cost of trace and access. They wanted RSA to accept the claim 
and reimburse them for the cost.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding RSA didnt need to take any action. 
She thought Mr Z and Mrs Z were under the impression that their claim would be accepted  
but this was based on what theyd initially told RSA about the leak coming from a pipe in the 
wall. She also thought RSA had considered the claim in accordance with the policy terms 
and conditions, based on the information and evidence available to them, relying on an 
exclusion for damage caused by deterioration and wear and tear. While the investigator 
noted that Mr Z and Mrs Z hadnt been given full information in the initial call to the claims 
team, this wouldnt have changed the outcome of the claim (as the cause of the leak was 
subsequently found to be due to wear and tear).
Mr Z and Mrs Z disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In doing so, Mr Z and Mrs Z werent satisfied with the apology from RSA and 
thought they should be reimbursed for the investigation of the leak (not its repair) as this 
should have been be covered under the policy. They also maintained that they were told (by 
the claims team) to carry out the investigation into the leak and send the invoice, which 
would be reimbursed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether RSA have acted fairly towards Mr Z and Mrs Z.
The central issue in Mr Z and Mrs Zs complaint is that RSA unfairly declined their claim for 
the cost of trace and access to investigate the leak at their property. There are several 
aspects to this issue. First, that they werent given the correct information when they first 
contacted the RSA claims team. Second, they also say they were subsequently told by RSA 
they would pay the cost and they should send them the invoice. Third, Mr Z and Mrs Z say 
they should be paid for the cost of trace and access (not the repair itself) under the policy. Ill 
consider each aspect in turn.
On the first aspect, RSA have acknowledged that Mr Z and Mrs Z werent given the correct 
information (that should the cause of the leak not be a pipe, the claim might not be covered). 
But RSA have also said that Mr Z and Mrs Z told the claims team that the leak was from a 
burst pipe behind the wall in the kitchen, and that there was damage to the wall. Based on 
what they were told, RSA proceeded on the assumption that it was an escape of water (so 
asked Mr Z and Mrs Z to get a quote for trace and access).
 
Ive considered both views, but on balance I think RSA acted reasonably, based on what 
theyd been told by Mr Z and Mrs Z about the leak. I agree that it was unfortunate that the 
claims team didnt make the point that should the leak (the damage) turn out to be from an 
escape of water, the claim might not be covered. But I dont think this would have changed 
the outcome, as I think Mr Z and Mrs Z would have wanted to identify cause of the leak (and 
repair any damage caused). And (as Ill come on to) it wouldnt have changed RSAs 
decision to decline the claim. 
On the second point, RSA say they have no record of the call that Mr Z and Mrs Z said they 
made, either of a call being received or a recording. RSAs case notes are consistent with 
this position. Ive also noted that Mr Z and Mrs Z havent been able to provide evidence 
(such as from their own phone call records) to support their view. Given this absence of 
evidence, then Im not in a position to conclude that it took place, nor that Mr Z and Mrs Z 
were told that RSA would pay the invoice and they should send it to them. However, this 
aspect is covered in the other point Ive considered - whether RSA acted fairly in declining 
Mr Z and Mrs Zs claim (and the cost of trace and access).
On this point, Mr Z and Mrs Z say that RSA should have paid the cost of trace and access 
(as opposed to the repair itself). Theyve provided a copy of the invoice that shows the cost 
of trace and access. RSA say that the claim was declined because the cause of the leak (the 
damage) was subsequently found to be from a failed seal on a window and cracks in the 
wall. As such, this was considered wear and tear, not an escape of water, so the claim was 
declined. Ive thought about both views, but Im persuaded that RSA have acted reasonably. 
In declining the claim, RSA relied on an exclusion in the policy. 
Under a heading General exceptions that apply to the whole policy there is a section 
headed General exceptions that states:This policy does not insure the following:
1. Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including deterioration, 
wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
Given the description of the cause of the leak (the damage) then I think it was reasonable for 
RSA to apply the above exclusion to decline the claim. The description is also not something 
that would be considered an escape of water. 
Ive also noted that in the separate Insurance Product Information Document that 
summarised the key information about the policy, theres a similar reference to wear and tear 
and deterioration not being covered. It also states (under what is covered) the following:
Loss or damage caused by:
Escape of water or oil including tracing and accessing a leak in your home, and 
repairing any damage caused to walls, flooring or ceilings during the search up to 
£5,000
Looking at this wording, its clear that the cost of trace and access relates to loss or damage 
caused by an escape of water. This indicates that if the loss or damage isnt from an escape 
of water (as is the case here) then trace and access costs arent covered. So, Ive concluded 
that RSA acted reasonably in declining to pay for the cost of trace and access.
Taking all these points together, I dont think RSA have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mr Z and Mrs Zs claim, based on the exclusion for wear and tear, nor in declining 
to pay for the cost of trace and access.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Z and Mrs Zs 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman