DRN-2370604
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
May 2007. Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting when Mr and Mrs H were arranging their mortgage. 
BoS has provided a copy of the mortgage offer that was given to Mr and Mrs H. Within 
this PPI has been selected and the level of cover for Mr and Mrs H is detailed, including 
the monthly premium and benefit split.  
I dont know what was discussed during the meeting but looking at this form it seems 
there was a discussion about the PPI. I wouldve expected Mr and Mrs H to read over 
the form and to have had an opportunity to raise any questions they had at the time. So, 
taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr Mr and Mrs H knew the 
policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. BoS has provided a demands and needs statement that was completed at the 
time. Looking at this and the evidence about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, it 
seems the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr and Mrs H were 
eligible for the cover and although they wouldve both received up to three months sick 
pay, they still had a need for cover. I say this because the PPI wouldve paid alongside 
this sick pay and for longer. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Hs employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim.  They also havent told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions that could affect their ability to claim. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs H as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs H would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. I think they 
would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs H would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman