DRN-3970694
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Santander said it had received a report that payments into Mr Ms accounts totalling £1,810 
in May 2019 had been reported as fraudulent. It had asked Mr M to show he was entitled to 
those funds at the time, and he hadnt done so. Santander said that it closed his account and 
had grounds to add the CIFAS marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that there was a 
high bar for a CIFAS marker to be registered. Mr M had explained to her that this money was 
from a prospective business partner and someone he knew. And Mr M had been sent the 
money for goods which he could arrange with a discount. The money had been quickly 
withdrawn in cash or sent to someone else, and she couldnt see how this was linked to the 
purchase of goods. Mr M had provided Santander with a printout of the account that the 
money came from although this didnt show the account holder. But it seemed that account 
holder was a limited company (anonymised here as B). She said that this was different to 
the name of the business partner and couldnt understand why Mr M hadnt questioned this 
at the time. So, she didnt think that Santander had acted unfairly in closing the account and 
adding the marker.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that when he spoke to 
our adjudicator he couldnt remember the name B but this didnt make a difference. The 
money had been paid into his savings account at Santander and the person sending the 
money had notified him of this. Hed met this person at the gym, and theyd talked for a 
couple of years about going into business together. Mr M said his own business was small at 
the time and that he didnt even have a business account, and this is why the funds were 
paid into his personal account. It was a tiny investment and hed no idea where the money 
had come from and that he needed to remember the name of the sender four years later 
especially after hed appealed to Santander and lost hope. He wanted his complaint to be 
reviewed impartially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Through our adjudicator Id asked for some more information from Mr M. Hed said he had 
receipts relating to the purchase of goods at the time and provided them. I was unclear why 
he didnt have a bank account for his limited company especially as there seemed to be 
transactions with that company shown on his personal account. Mr M said he didnt have a 
proper bank account for the company but instead those operated with a prepaid card and 
would save on fees if he used his personal account.  He went on to say that hed known the 
person sending the money for a while and theyd both lent each other money. The 
agreement between them was fluid and they didnt feel the need for any contract, and it 
wasnt as if thousands of pounds were involved. Mr M was concerned that wed side with 
Santander and that this further information will have no impact.
Im thinking about what is most likely and am carrying out a fresh assessment of the case. I 
note that Mr M was clearly asked for information in 2019 and had the full opportunity to 
provide that then. And thats hes been pursuing this further with Santander since 2021. So, I 
dont think hes been disadvantaged by being asked for effectively the same information now 
as Id expect there to be a consistent version of events.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Santander 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr M was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
Ive listened to the call Mr M had with our adjudicator. During that it was pointed out to him 
that according to his statement hed received and made payments before involving B. This 
time there were five payments credited from B as follows £290 on 2 May; £400 on 4 May; 
£500 on 8 May; £450 on 10 May; £50 on 11 May and £120 on 14 May 2019. As has been 
said this money was either withdrawn or quickly transferred on.
Mr M has provided a number of receipts. Some dont relate to the relevant period. Although 
they do show Mr M to be trading and buying goods into 2022. There are invoices of £450 
for 6 May, £1,056 for 13 May and £576 for 24 May 2019. I dont doubt that Mr M was 
operating in this line of business especially as I can see the record of any of his 
directorships from publicly available information at Companies House.
Mr M says he wouldnt be expected to check that money received for goods was legitimate 
and that he accepted this in good faith. I understand his point but here this money was 
reported as resulting from fraudulent activity. So, he reasonably needed to show then that 
he was entitled to receive and then spend this.
Ive seen the notes relating to what he told Santander in 2019. And that this money was 
from an associates company and that hed loaned this person money too in the past. It was noted hed then provided a receipt for £306 and another for £258 relating to a specific 
suppliers name. He now says in his most recent responses that that this supplier company 
had a trading name linked to the invoices hes sent to us. And Mr M then had no evidence 
about the loan that had been a year earlier. Hed provided a business card of the business 
hed had the purchases from.
The reason I asked about his company bank account is that Mr M would need to keep 
records of trading for his financial statements. And it was unclear why hed first said he 
hadnt a company bank account and now that he wasnt always using it. There is simply no 
record to support these dealings with B, or any individual. Im finding it difficult to accept 
that Mr M didnt know that the money was coming from a limited company. And that he 
wouldnt need his own records for the transactions with B or any individual. I cant see hes 
shown any personal connection between the individual he says he was dealing with or 
between that person and the limited company that was sending him money. There also 
seems to be different information now about which invoices were relevant and no clear link 
between those, the multiple credits and anything specific hed supplied. As I indicated 
earlier Mr M did have the opportunity to clarify all that at the time with Santander and 
potentially ask the person/ company sending him money to assist him. The bank statement 
doesnt really help here as it doesnt show his entitlement to the money. In sum even 
though Mr M says he was operating a relatively small business Id expect there to be more 
information and especially as he was asked for this in 2019.
On balance and for the reasons Ive given I dont find his testimony to be reliable. I 
conclude that the test for a CIFAS marker was met as Mr M hasnt shown he was entitled 
to receive and spend the money that had been reported as fraudulent. I also consider 
Santander was able to make a commercial decision to close his account under its terms 
and conditions.
I can appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed by my conclusions given what he says has 
been the impact of the marker for him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman