DRN-2527880
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that OPLO HL Ltd trading as 1st Stop Secured Loans sold them a 
product with too high an interest rate and they didnt understand the implications of that. The 
lender didnt properly consider their expenditure including childcare costs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I took out a secured loan for £25,000 with 1st Stop in 2016 with fees of £3,045. 
The purpose of the loan was debt consolidation. The loan period was intended to be 180 
months with monthly payments of £451.58. The interest rate is described as 18% variable. 
Mr and Mrs I were introduced to the lender by a credit intermediary which, according to the 
mortgage illustration, recommended to Mr and Mrs I, having assessed their needs and 
circumstances, that they take out the second mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs I complain that as a young couple they didnt understand the implications of what 
they were signing up to. They also say that this loan was unaffordable as there was 
expenditure that wasnt considered including childcare costs and expenditure on gambling. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as the lender had 
conducted an affordability assessment which looked at all aspects of Mr and Mrs Is income 
and expenditure. Mr and Mrs I disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs I were introduced to 1st Stop by a credit intermediary. This is significant as 1st 
Stop didnt recommend this product to Mr and Mrs I and isnt responsible for assessing their 
needs and circumstances before reaching a recommendation. So, the lender isnt required to 
assess whether the product or indeed debt consolidation was suitable for Mr and Mrs I. 1st 
Stop is in effect offering a product and its a matter for Mr and Mrs I, advised by the 
intermediary, if they want to buy it. But 1st Stop isnt recommending it to them. So, although 
Mr and Mrs I may complain about the rate of interest that the lender charges, Mr and Mrs I 
have chosen to pay that rate and I cant fairly require 1st Stop to amend the rate of interest if 
thats the agreed rate.
But 1st Stop has responsibilities to ensure that the information it provides is clear so that Mr 
and Mrs I understand what they are signing up to. Its also responsible for conducting an 
affordability assessment to satisfy itself that Mr and Mrs I can afford the product. It then has 
responsibilities to Mr and Mrs I if they fall into financial difficulties during the course of the 
loan.
Ive seen the information that 1st Stop provided on the details of the loan and the implications 
of debt consolidation. Mr and Mrs I say that he loan was unaffordable. The purpose of the 
loan was to consolidate debts. Mr and Mrs I are a young couple having recently bought a 
house. That would be a period when its reasonable to expect they would accumulate an 
amount of debt - I note some of the original debt appears to be related to the wedding - and 
a debt consolidation loan may be a way of dealing with these debts. The monthly payments 
are lower than they would have been paying towards the original debt - in this case it was by 
£164.63 - but they are spread over a longer period. In effect, 1st Stop was providing the 
facility but the decision to do it rested with Mr and Mrs I and their advisers. But Im satisfied 
that the lender complied with its obligation to alert Mr and Mrs I to what they were doing.
The other issue is how robust the lenders affordability assessment was. The evidence on 
file is that 1st Stop obtained and checked information from a number of sources - the clients 
information, payslips, bank accounts etc. to assess the affordability of the payments. 1st 
Stop worked out that the amount of free cash was £842.13 that would allow a monthly 
payment of £451.88. This was a saving on the previous monthly payments of £694. 
Mr and Mrs I make a number of points about this. Firstly, that their gambling expenditure 
wasnt accounted for. But the evidence is that 1st Stop picked this up and included it in the 
assessment, Secondly, as regards income, that Mrs Is probationary period in her job wasnt 
picked up but I do see a reference to that, so I cant agree that it was ignored. Thirdly that 
Mrs Is impending maternity leave wasnt picked up. But I cant see how that would have 
been picked up by the lender unless it was declared to it, which it doesnt appear to have 
been.
I understand that childcare costs seem to be at the core of Mr and Mrs Is complaints. 1st 
Stops assessment is made with the childcare costs of £120 per month. These were the 
costs 1st Stop was advised about. I note Mrs I refers to a childcare bill of £800 per month 
which was not considered . But the lender isnt told about that bill and as far as I could see 
there was nothing in the bank statements that which suggest those were the childcare costs 
at the time which should have alerted the lender to these much higher costs. As the lender 
wasnt made aware of these and I dont consider that it could reasonably have been aware 
of them, I cant fairly find the lender at fault for not including them in the affordability 
assessment. On the other hand, Im satisfied that 1st Stop made a reasonable assessment 
of the affordability of the loan with the information it had, and that loan was affordable. 
Although I have sympathy for Mr and Mrs I, for the reasons Ive set out I cant fairly uphold 
this complaint. 
I note that Mr and Mrs I are in financial difficulties and the lender has a responsibility to deal 
with them positively and sympathetically. Ive seen no evidence to date that this isnt the 
case but would remind the lender that this is a continuing duty it owes to Mr and Mrs I.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman