DRN-1556222
The complaint
Miss C complains that a car acquired with finance from NIIB Group Limited was mis-sold to 
her. She says she was told that the car had an infotainment system, but it didnt.
What happened
In November 2018 Miss C was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement 
with NIIB.
Miss C is unhappy because she says she was told prior to purchasing the car that it had 
CarPlay, an infotainment feature with the ability to get directions and play music on the built-
in display. 
Miss C didnt drive the car very much for the first three months. In February 2019 she 
contacted the supplying dealer and asked how to use the infotainment system. The dealer 
replied and asked Miss C to come in so she could be helped with setting it up. Miss C 
returned to the dealer in late February 2019 but was then advised that the car didnt have 
this feature. 
Miss C complained to NIIB. In response, NIIB said there was no evidence that the car had 
been misrepresented by way of advertisement or in the vehicle specification. It said the 
email sent by the dealership which inaccurately stated that the feature was present was sent 
3 months after the point of supply and therefore didnt form part of the sales process.
The dealer offered to fit the feature free of charge and NIIB offered a preferential settlement 
figure, but Miss C remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought there had been a misrepresentation and 
that Miss C wouldnt have entered into the agreement if shed been informed at the point of 
supply that the feature wasnt present.
NIIB didnt agree. It said that if the feature was a crucial feature for Miss C then it wouldve 
expected her to check that it was present during a test drive. It also said that Miss C had 
waited 3 months before raising any concerns and that if the feature was a decisive factor in 
her decision to enter the agreement, it wouldve expected her to contact the dealership 
straightaway. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focussed on whether there was a misrepresentation by the dealer that there was an 
infotainment system. A misrepresentation occurs when theres been a false statement of fact 
which induces the customer to enter into an agreement and suffers a loss due to the 
misrepresentation.
Here, the complaint centres on an alleged statement by the dealer that the car came with a 
particular type of infotainment system. Miss C says she was told by the salesman at the time 
of purchase that the car had CarPlay.
There arent any notes of the discussions which took place between Miss C and the 
salesman and because I wasnt present, I cant be certain of what was said. In 
circumstances like these, I need to look at the available evidence and take into account the 
wider circumstances of the case to decide whats most likely to have happened.
I can see that the same salesperson who advised Miss C at the point of supply subsequently 
sent her an email in February 2019 offering to help set up CarPlay. Whilst this email isnt of 
itself a misrepresentation (because it wasnt sent at the point of supply), Im persuaded that it 
supports Miss Cs version of events that she was advised that the car had CarPlay at the 
point of supply. I dont think Miss C would have any reason to contact the dealer and ask for 
help to operate CarPlay if she didnt think the feature was available. And it seems more likely 
than not that the reason Miss C thought the feature was available was because the 
salesperson told her it was.
I appreciate that theres nothing in the vehicle specification or handbook to suggest that 
CarPlay is available. But Miss C doesnt bring her complaint on the basis that CarPlay was 
advertised. Shes always said that it was the salesperson who told her that the feature was 
available.
Taking the available information into consideration, Im persuaded that the salesman made 
an untrue statement of fact. Ive gone on to consider whether this induced Miss C to enter 
into the agreement. NIIB has made the point that if the feature was so important to Miss C, 
she ought reasonably to have checked it was functioning at the point of supply or reported its 
absence sooner than she did. Ive thought about this but I dont know whether Miss C had 
the opportunity to test drive the car prior to the point of supply and shes explained that due 
to personal circumstances she didnt drive the car very much in the first three months. The 
inference being that she didnt realise that the feature wasnt there. The very low mileage 
she covered during this time supports what she says here. With that in mind, I dont think the 
fact that three months elapsed made the feature any less important to Miss C. On balance, I 
think that if Miss C had been told prior to the point of supply that the feature wasnt available, 
she wouldnt have entered into the agreement. 
I can see that the dealer offered to install the feature. However, Miss C made her complaint 
promptly and at a time when the car hadnt covered much mileage, so the agreement could 
have been ended in February 2019 with little detriment to either party. I dont think Miss C 
would have entered into the agreement to purchase the car if shed been given the correct 
information. And theres no evidence that she would have purchased the car with the 
intention of having CarPlay installed later. So, I dont think the dealers offer to fit the feature 
retrospectively is reasonable in the circumstances.
 
Putting things right
Because theres been a misrepresentation, Miss C should be put back in the position she 
would be in had she not entered into the agreement. Thats said, I can see that shes had 
some use of the car, albeit without a functioning infotainment system, , so I wont be asking 
NIIB to refund all of her monthly payments. Nor will I be asking NIIB to reimburse Miss C for 
insurance or other costs shes mentioned, because these are the ongoing costs of car 
ownership which Miss C would reasonably be expected to pay for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NIB Group Limited must:End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss C
Refund the deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Refund 15% of the monthly payments paid by Miss C to reflect loss of enjoyment
Remove any adverse information from Miss Cs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman