DRN-3169002
The complaint
Ms O complains about Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (QFL) and 
their failure to submit her claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) before the 
deadline. Ms O also complains about how long her claim has been ongoing.
What happened
In early August 2019, Ms O instructed QFL to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI against lender 
S online. QFL accepted this instruction and submitted Ms Os enquiry to lender S on 12 
August 2019.
In September 2019, lender S responded to QFL asking for them to clarify Ms Os name as it 
hadnt been formatted correctly. But QFL failed to recognise this request and no further 
action was taken. Ms O continued to chase QFL regularly for updates in the next year and 
each time, QFL told Ms O they were still awaiting a response from lender S.
In September 2020, QFL made Ms O aware her claim had been rejected as she hadnt 
placed an apostrophe in her name. But Ms O disputed this and contacted lender S directly, 
who confirmed the claim had been rejected as her claim hadnt been submitted before the 
PPI deadline of 29 August 2019. Ms O was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms O thought QFLs failure to submit her claim had impacted her financially as she was no 
longer able to claim for mis-sold PPI. And she was unhappy QFL had delayed her claim by 
providing her with incorrect information when she requested an update. So, she wanted to 
be compensated for her financial loss and the upset shed been caused.
QFL responded in May 2021 and admitted lender S correspondence in September 2019 
hadnt been added to their system correctly. So, although they didnt think their advisors had 
purposefully mis-led Ms O, they accepted the information given wasnt correct. And they 
accepted Ms Os claim wasnt accepted initially as her name hadnt been transferred 
correctly onto the letter of authority (LOA) by their system. So, to recognise this, they offered 
to submit a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to lender S free of charge to determine 
whether Ms O did have PPI on her accounts. And if she did, they theyd refer her claim to 
their solicitors to see if they could progress her claim through an alternative method.
Ms O initially agreed to this response. But Ms O didnt receive a new LOA from QFL to sign 
until September 2021 and she was unhappy with this delay. QFL said they sent a LOA to Ms 
O in June and didnt think they were responsible for any issues with the postal delivery. Ms 
O signed and returned a new LOA to QFL in September 2021 and a DSAR was submitted. 
But QFL have confirmed lender S responded saying they have no record of Ms O so couldnt 
continue with a claim any further. Ms O disputed this having been a longstanding customer 
and remained unhappy with the fact her PPI claim hadnt been considered. So, she referred 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She explained she was unable to 
overturn lender S decision to time bar Ms Os claim or not respond positively to the DSAR. 
But she explained she was able to consider whether QFL had acted fairly. And she didnt 
think they had.
She thought QFLs failure to transfer Ms Os name onto a LOA correctly, and then failure to 
respond to lender Ss request, had caused substantial delays in Ms Os claim. And she 
thought this wouldve been upsetting for Ms O. She also thought QFL had contributed to 
further delays by not sending the DSAR to lender S as soon as a new LOA was received. 
So, she thought QFL should pay Ms O £200 to recognise the upset shed been caused.
Ms O accepted this recommendation. And so did QFL initially. But upon review, QFL 
decided to reject it as they didnt think Ms O had been impacted financially following lender 
S response to the DSAR saying they had no record of her. So, they didnt think the level of 
compensation was fair. As QFL didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
QFL dont dispute it was their system that transferred Ms Os name onto a LOA incorrectly. 
And they dont dispute they failed to notice and acknowledge lender S request for 
clarification on the name in September 2019. So, Im satisfied QFL have accepted theyve 
acted unfairly, failing to provide Ms O with a reasonable service on these points and I dont 
intend to discuss them further.
Ms O is also unhappy about the delays in receiving a new LOA to submit as DSAR following 
QFLs suggestion. But I have seen cover letters that show LOAs were sent to Ms Os correct 
address by QFL. Although I recognise Ms O didnt receive these, I dont think it would be fair 
for me to say this was the fault of QFL as Im satisfied they sent them and thats all that was 
in their control. But I have also seen that after QFL received Ms Os new LOA, they took no 
further action until Ms O chased them again. So, I think there were some delays in 
submitting the DSAR and again I think this shows QFL acting unfairly.
As I think QFL acted unfairly, Ive then needed to consider what I think QFL should do to put 
things right. And Im aware this is the main disputed surrounding this complaint.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Ms O back in the position she wouldve 
been, had QFL acted fairly in the first instance. In this situation, QFL wouldve transferred Ms 
Os name onto the LOA correctly and a claim wouldve been submitted before the deadline.
And even if that didnt happen, QFL wouldve responded to lender S request for clarification 
of the name. I think its reasonable for me to assume that in both situations, lender S 
wouldve gone on to consider Ms Os PPI claim.
So, I think Ms O lost the opportunity for her PPI claim to be considered. And I think it 
wouldve been upsetting for Ms O to realise this and this upset should be considered when deciding what QFL should do to put things right.
And I think this wouldve been made worse as QFL providing Ms O with updates suggesting 
her claim still had a chance of success for a year after their failure to submit Ms Os claim 
correctly. Ive seen Ms O chased QFL for updates regularly and this satisfies me she was 
inconvenienced by the delays. And due to this length of time, I think it wouldve been even 
more upsetting for Ms O to discover her claim had been time barred when lender S 
confirmed this with her directly. And I think this would also have been made worse by QFL 
suggesting to Ms O that it was her error that led to her claim not being considered when it 
was in fact QFLs. So, I think this should also be considered.
But I am aware lender S have responded to Ms Os DSAR stating they hold no records for 
her. Im unable to comment on why this is and I recognise Ms O disputes this. But I dont 
think QFL can be hold responsible for this and I have to assume lender S response is 
correct without any evidence to suggest otherwise. So, as lender S cant find a record of Ms 
O, I think its unlikely they wouldve identified an account belonging to Ms O with PPI 
attached. So, I dont think Im able to say that Ms O has been financially impacted by QFLs 
failures.
Im aware QFL thinks this supports their position that the £200 suggested by our investigator 
is unfair. But I dont agree. From what Ive seen, Ms O lost the opportunity to receive a full 
and final response to her PPI claim from lender S because of the mistakes QFL made. And 
this claim was then significantly elongated by QFL, who failed to notice a request for further 
information from lender S. 
When I consider these delays alongside the incorrect updates Ms O received on several 
occasions, I think Ms O has suffered both upset and inconvenience. And I think this should 
be acknowledged with a compensatory payment. Our investigator recommended a payment 
of £200 and this falls in line with what I wouldve directed, had it not already been suggested. 
So, it follows that I direct QFL to pay Ms O £200 to recognise the failures in their service and 
this impact this had on her.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Os complaint about Quickly Finance Limited 
trading as Fast Track Reclaim and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Ms O £200 to recognise the upset and inconvenience shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman