DRN-3596100
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim she 
made for an escape of water under her home and buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2021 Mrs M made a claim to her insurer Aviva for damage caused by an escape of
water in her bathroom. Mrs M said a neighbour contacted the water utility company to report
a leak from the property as Mrs M was away. The water utility company attended and
switched off the water supply from an outside stop tap.
When Mrs M returned a few days later she arranged for a plumber to attend to carry out
repairs. At the same time she made a claim to Aviva.
Aviva declined Mrs Ms claim. It said there was no evidence of a valid escape of water claim
in line with what the policy covered.
Mrs M asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought that on balance Mrs M
had shown that an insured peril had occurred and so recommended Aviva deal with her
claim.
Aviva didnt agree. In summary it says we havent properly considered all of the information.
It doesnt agree its fair to give more weight to the plumbers opinion which it said was
conflicting over its forensic experts opinion. Aviva said on the balance of probabilities it
believes the leak was caused by accidental or deliberate means by leaving the shower or
water running in the bathroom while they were away. Aviva says no evidence has been
provided to show the plumber carried out repairs to a leak in the bathroom.
Mrs M has provided details of her contact with Avivas claims agent and her unhappiness
with how he dealt with the claim. She says Aviva offered compensation in relation to this
complaint which she has declined.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 May 2022. I didnt intend to uphold Mrs Ms complaint 
as I didnt think she had shown an insured event had occurred. So I thought Avivas decision 
to decline the claim was reasonable. I explained that the concerns Mrs M raised in response 
to the Investigators view related to a complaint which didnt form part of my decision. Mrs M 
had received a separate reply to that complaint from Aviva but hadnt asked us to look at that 
complaint. 
Mrs M didnt agree with my provisional decision. In the first of two replies she asked whether 
Aviva considered the damage was caused accidentally on the balance of probabilities  and 
if so if it would reconsider her claim. 
We put Mrs Ms comments to Aviva. In response, Aviva said there were discrepancies within 
the plumbers report and Mrs Ms account and nothing to show an insured event took place. 
In the second reply, Mrs M provided photos of the damage and what her kitchen looked like 
before the damage. In summary Mrs M says:
She believes her policy would provide cover if shed accidentally left the taps 
running. But she knows she didnt as she checked before leaving the home. 
Her partner instructed the plumber to attend before she contacted Aviva. So 
when Aviva asked for photos of the damage, it wasnt possible as the plumber 
had by then carried out repairs. If theyd known they were going to make a claim, 
Mrs M says she would have asked the plumber to take photos. 
In response to Avivas findings that there was undisturbed dust and dirt in the 
area where the plumber said he carried out repairs, Mrs M says the house was 
empty for a while before Avivas agent attended and so its possible dust had 
formed during this time. 
Mrs M accepts she doesnt know exactly what the plumber did or where the leak 
originated from. She says the fact is once the utility company switched off the 
water outside, the leak stopped. She believes this shows an insured peril 
occurred as the water from the external mains is provided through pipes to her 
home. Mrs M says even if the tap was left on accidentally she believes she would 
have a valid claim under the policy. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision remains along the same lines as my provisional decision. 
Ill explain why. 
Mrs Ms policy with Aviva says it will cover a number of insured perils. Its for Mrs M to show
that an insured peril occurred. The policy says it will cover loss or damage caused by water
escaping from water tanks, pipes, equipment or fixed heating systems.
Ive looked at the multiple points of concern raised in Avivas repudiation letter dated 21
September 2021  and Mrs Ms response dated 5 October 2021. Aside from the plumbers
report and subsequent contact with him, I think Mrs M provided reasonable and plausible
explanations to dismiss Avivas remaining concerns.
Mrs M chose a loss assessor to assist with her claim. Rather than use the Home Emergency
Repair cover under her policy, she asked a plumber known to her partner to attend her home
to investigate and identify the source of the leak.
Aviva says that the plumbers written report together with the findings of the forensic expert
and subsequent discussions with the plumber do not support the claim Mrs M has made. Ive
listened to the key call between the loss assessor and the plumber following the forensic
experts report. Having carefully reviewed all of the information available, I agree with Aviva.
The plumber reported that he had carried out repair works to pipes under the bath and sink
in the bathroom of Mrs Ms home. As the leak didnt continue once the water was switched
back on, he believed the works carried out had fixed the leak. But he wasnt able to identify
the source of the leak or whether it came from one or more of the pipes.When Avivas claims manager and forensic expert attended Mrs Ms home a few days after
the alleged works took place, they could find no evidence of the works having been done as
described. They found that the pipes in question had signs of dirt, undisturbed dust and
cobwebs in the areas where the pipes had allegedly been checked and repaired. There were
no teeth marks to key pipes where there should have been if the works as the plumber
reported had taken place. I dont think its likely that the conditions described by the claims 
manager and forensic expert were likely to have formed over a few days. 
When further discussing their findings with the plumber, the information he gave Aviva 
wasnt clear and the works he described conflicted with his written report. Aviva asked at the 
outset for photos of the damage in order to consider the claim  but the plumber didnt 
provide any. I appreciate what Mrs M says about this. But I think Avivas request for 
reasonable proof in order to validate Mrs Ms claim was fair. 
So I think Aviva properly investigated Mrs Ms claim. Theres no dispute that there has been
significant damage caused to Mrs Ms home due to an excess of water from the bathroom.
But I dont think Aviva received evidence to show there was an escape of water which was
covered under the policy: being from water tanks, pipes, equipment or fixed heating
systems. And so I think Avivas decision to decline the claim was reasonable as Mrs M
hasnt proven her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman