DRN-4018495
The complaint
Ms W complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services 
(Post Office Money) sent emails that were meant for another customer. Ms W also 
complains about the way her enquiries were handled by Post Office Money. 
What happened
Ms W had a savings account with Post Office Money that closed in 2020. Last August, Ms W 
received a marketing email from Post Office Money addressed to another customer. Ms W 
quickly contacted Post Office Money and raised concerns that her data had been breached. 
Ms W also reported the issue to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Post Office Money issued a final response and apologised for sending Ms W emails that 
were meant for another customer. Post Office Money said that the issue had come about 
due to an administrative error and that Ms Ws email address had been removed from the 
other customers profile so no more emails should be sent. Post Office Money also offered 
Ms W £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Despite the assurance given in Post Office Moneys final response, Ms W received another 
marketing email addressed to a different customer in September 2022. 
Ms Ws explained that she referred the matter to the ICO for review and also tried to deal 
with Post Office Moneys Data Protection Officer (DPO) to get an understanding of what had 
happened and why she continued to receive unsolicited marketing emails that were 
addressed to other people. But Ms Ws told us she wasnt contacted by the DPO as 
expected and the background setting out what had happened hadnt been provided by Post 
Office Money. 
Post Office Money issued another response to Ms Ws complaint and explained that one of 
the databases used for sending emails to customers hadnt been updated after it issued the 
previous final response. But Post Office Money said the databases had been corrected and 
that no more emails should be received. Post Office Money offered a further £50 to 
apologise for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Ws complaint. They thought Post Office Money 
had dealt with Ms Ws complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms W asked to 
appeal and said Post Office Moneys DPO had failed to clearly explain what happened 
despite having referred the matter to the ICO. Ms W also said she wasnt contacted as 
expected and that she remained concerned about the underlying cause of the data breach. 
As Ms W asked to appeal her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Ms W has explained that she doesnt feel Post Office Moneys explanation concerning how 
she received emails addressed to another customer occurred is reasonable. Post Office 
Moneys advised there was an administrative error that led to Ms Ws email address being 
recorded on someone elses profile and that, as a result, marketing emails were sent to her 
in error. Post Office Moneys told us the issue was caused by human error. I understand 
Ms W would like a more comprehensive explanation. But Post Office Money has confirmed 
that administrative and human errors were behind the problem. Im sorry to disappoint Ms W 
but we cant compel Post Office Money to give more detail or explanation beyond the details 
already provided. So whilst I understand why Mrs W wants to know more, Im satisfied it has 
explained what happened and why she received emails addressed to someone else. 
Post Office Money added that when it originally responded to Ms Ws complaint it took steps 
to remove her email address from the other customers profile. But because of the way its 
systems work, the update wasnt pulled through to a database it uses when sending 
marketing emails. As a result, Ms W received a follow up marketing email, again addressed 
to another customer. But Post Office Money says it has since taken steps to remove Ms Ws 
email address from the other database which should mean no more emails addressed to 
third parties are received. Ms W hasnt told us about any other emails shes received in other 
customers names after September 2022, so it appears the underlying issue has now been 
resolved. 
I can see Ms W has referred the data breach to the ICO. Post Office Money has told us it 
was contacted by ICO about the issues raised. But Post Office Money says the ICOs 
response didnt require it to contact Ms W directly or take any further action. Whilst I 
understand Ms Ws frustration, its not the role of this service to comment on how a business 
responded to an ICO investigation. 
Ive focused on the impact of the emails Post Office Money sent on Ms W and whether it 
dealt with her complaint fairly. Post Office Money accepts Ms W was sent emails intended 
for someone else in error. I can see Ms W was distressed to find shed received marketing 
emails intended for someone else. And I agree that the service provided was poor, 
especially after Post Office Money issued its first final response and claimed the issue had 
been resolved. But I think its fair to note that beyond receiving marketing emails for 
someone else and having to contact Post Office Money, Ms W hasnt told us about any other 
issues that have been caused. So whilst I agree Post Office money made mistakes and that 
the service provided was poor, Ms w doesnt appear to have suffered a financial loss as a 
result. 
Post Office Money apologised for whats happened and offered Ms W a total of £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Ive considered everything Ms W has told us about her 
experiences and how the issues raised have affected her. In my view, the £150 offer Post 
Office Money has made reflects the impact of the issues raised and is a fair and reasonable 
way to resolve her complaint. To put it another way, £150 is very much in line with what I 
wouldve told it to pay, had no offer been made. As Im satisfied Post Office Money has 
made an offer to settle Ms Ws complaint that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, 
Im not telling it to do anything else. My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services has 
already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman