DRN-2667569
The complaint
 Mr W complains about being provided with a car which was not of satisfactory quality. Hed 
like PSA Finance UK Limited to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused. 
What happened
 Mr W acquired a car under a conditional sale agreement provided by PSA in March 2019. 
He says that within 30 days of collecting the car, a warning light appeared on the dashboard 
so he called a roadside assistance service. Mr W says the roadside assistance service 
advised him of a potential emissions fault. He subsequently took the car to the supplying 
dealer who replaced an O2 sensor and a windscreen washer jet.
Mr W says a few weeks later the car experienced further warning lights and that although the 
supplying dealer agreed to fix similar problems twice more, and the third time the repair took 
months due to parts not being available. Mr W says that on one occasion he stayed in a 
hotel nearby the supplying dealer in anticipation of the repair, only to later be told the repair 
wouldnt be possible at that time.
By November 2019, and following a complaint Mr W made to PSA, the supplying dealer 
gave Mr W the option to reject the car, be provided with another car or for repairs to be 
carried out. Mr W chose for the car to be repaired and says that by January 2020 the car 
was repaired.
 
Mr W complained to PSA that hed been caused a significant amount of trouble and upset as 
a result of being given a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. He said that a number of 
issues with the car had been fixed but he was frustrated at the number of repair attempts. He 
also said hed suffered a financial loss due to costs associated with travel and 
accommodation as well as loss of earnings. 
PSA accepted Mr Ws complaint. In its final response sent in January 2020, it said it believed 
the offer the supplying dealer had made was a fair resolution to Mr Ws complaint. It said that 
it understood Mr W was satisfied with the repairs. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. He accepted the car had been repaired but he 
remained unhappy with the number of repair attempts and delays caused. He said hed been 
caused a great deal of inconvenience as a result of journeys to and from the supplying 
dealer for repairs which he needed to arrange around his work. He spoke about a very 
challenging set of circumstances which saw him lose his job and home, and said that the 
issues with the car may have had an impact on those events.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint. He was persuaded that although now repaired, 
the car was likely not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He didnt think that the 
necessary repairs had been completed within a reasonable timeframe nor without significant 
inconvenience to Mr W. Our investigator concluded that Mr Ws use of the car had not been 
significantly impeded, but nonetheless the recurring faults wouldve been particularly 
worrying at a time which was already challenging for Mr W. He recommended PSA pay 
Mr W £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, which it agreed to. 
Mr W disagreed with our investigators recommendations. He said that he expected a 
compensatory figure in the thousands rather than hundreds. He also went into a significant 
amount of detail about his circumstances during the time in which repairs were being carried 
out. Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr Ws complaint is about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement, which is a 
regulated agreement and one our service has the power to consider complaints about. PSA 
is the supplier of the good under this type of agreement and as such, is responsible for 
dealing with a complaint about the quality of the goods. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers conditional sale agreements. It features 
implied terms that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. It also sets out 
consumers rights in such circumstances that the goods are not of satisfactory quality. 
In this case, I think theres little doubt that the car Mr W was supplied with was likely not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply  faults occurred very soon after he collected the 
car, so its highly likely they were present or developing at that point. Ive seen that each time 
Mr W experienced an issue with the car, he requested a repair, which he was entitled to 
under the CRA. 
From whats been said it seems that Mr Ws car was repaired successfully, but hes unhappy 
with the time it took and the impact the situation had on him. Our service can consider 
awarding compensation for inconvenience, trouble and upset that that was caused as a 
result of the situation. 
Firstly, I acknowledge that from what Mr Ws said that hes has experienced a number of 
very challenging personal circumstances, particularly with reference to losing his home and 
job. I imagine that wouldve been a very difficult time for Mr W, and the delayed repairs to his 
car likely did not help matters.
Mr W has made a number of detailed points regarding the case and his circumstances. I 
dont propose to cover each point hes made. My decision will focus on what I consider to be 
the main points relevant to this case, and our rules allow me to do this. I can, however, 
assure Mr W that Ive given careful consideration to all of his submissions.
Mr W says he suffered a financial loss as a result of journeys to and from the supplying 
dealer, as well as one occasion where he chose to stay in a hotel nearby the supplying 
dealer whilst repairs were being completed. I think itd be fair for Mr W to be compensated 
for unavoidable losses incurred as a result of the mishandling of repairs. But Id expect Mr W 
to mitigate the impact of any mishandling where possible.
With that in mind, I dont think itd be fair to ask for PSA to pay the cost of Mr Ws hotel 
accommodation. Mr W said that he was offered a courtesy car on that occasion, so while he 
may have elected to stay in a hotel, I cant reasonably conclude that it was necessary or 
unavoidable. However, I accept that Mr W wouldve been caused unnecessary fuel costs 
driving to and from the supplying dealer, which I understand was roughly 25 miles away from 
him, and Ill take that into account in determining how much compensation for PSA to pay 
Mr W is fair.Mr W and our investigator spoke about his use of the car. He told our investigator it was 
necessary for him to use the car to commute to work on a daily basis, and he was able to do 
this despite the cars faults. Im also aware that Mr W was offered a courtesy car while 
repairs were completed. So, overall, I dont think that Mr Ws use of the car was significantly 
impeded. Im also not satisfied that Mr Ws been caused a loss of earnings as hes 
suggested.
Nonetheless, despite having use of it, I accept that driving a car which displayed faults 
wouldve been worrying for Mr W. I also accept that it wouldve been particularly 
inconvenient and troublesome for Mr W to have needed a number of repairs. I agree with our 
investigator that repairs were not carried out within a reasonable timeframe nor without 
significant inconvenience to Mr W, as Id have expected them to be.
Overall, I accept that Mr W has been caused unnecessary trouble, upset and inconvenience 
as a result of whats happened. I appreciate that Mr W expected to be awarded with a 
significantly higher amount of compensation, but having considered everything thats 
happened, including costs that Mr W likely incurred, I agree that £250 compensation is a fair 
amount.  
  
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that unless it has done so already, 
PSA Finance UK Limited must pay Mr W £250 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman