DRN-4335079
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the handling of a claim under her home emergency insurance 
policy with Aviva Insurance Limited 
Mrs H is represented in this complaint by her daughter. For ease, any reference in this 
decision to things said and done by Mrs H, should be read to include things said and done 
on her behalf by her daughter. 
What happened
Mrs H has held a home emergency insurance policy with Aviva for a number of years. In 
April 2023, she contacted Aviva to make a claim, as her toilet was blocked. 
Aviva sent a contractor out on 4 April 2023 who cleared the toilet by rodding it. The 
contractor said hed arrange another visit to change the pan connector. Another contractor 
attended on 13 April 2023 who said the toilet had not been installed correctly. He said that to 
ensure there were no further blockages the toilet would need to be moved forward away 
from the wall. He did not attend until the evening and said he did not have time to do the 
work required then, so arranged for someone else to attend again the next day to do this. 
Another contractor came out the next day but he said the toilet would need to be positioned 
around 15 inches away from the wall, which would mean thered be no support for the 
cistern and the toilet would block Mrs Hs path to the bath. The contractor therefore said he 
could not move the toilet. 
Aviva said the work needed to rectify the fault is not covered under the policy, as it is a 
design/installation fault. However, Aviva offered £150 compensation to Mrs H as it did not 
return a call and because its contractors should have told Mrs H that the problem was not 
covered sooner.  
Mrs H is very unhappy with this. She says her toilet continued to intermittently block, which 
she clears by pouring buckets of water down.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied that Aviva was entitled to refuse to carry out any further work to 
reposition the toilet, or change the pan connector. 
Mrs H does not accept the Investigators assessment. She has made a number of points in 
response the Investigator and in her initial submissions. I have considered everything she 
has said but have summarised her main points below: 
The toilet was installed as part of building work well over 10 years ago and passed by 
the building inspector. 
The toilet has never blocked before, which means it logically cannot be blocking due 
to the way it was installed.
The Investigator said there was no documentation that the building inspector passed 
this installation and questions why the Investigator had not asked for that?
If it was an installation problem, why did the first contractor say Aviva would replace 
the toilet? 
The contractor that attended on 13 April 2023 didnt attend until 7pm (Mrs H had  
waited in all day) and then said he couldnt do the job then as there was not enough 
time. 
The contractor that attended on 14 April 2023 said he would not move the toilet, as it 
would be in Mrs Hs way but she wasnt given the option of having the toilet moved 
forward and feels thered be enough room. 
Mrs H and her daughter chased Aviva several times about this matter.
If the installation is wrong, Aviva has been taking money for insurance when in fact it 
would never have been insured.
How would an 87 year old lady know if the toilet had been fitted correctly? 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home emergency insurance policies, such as this one, do not cover every eventuality or
incident which might befall the insured property. Rather, the policy sets out specific incidents
which will be covered and in turn this cover may be subject to specified exclusions. We
would generally accept that insurers are entitled to decide what risks they want to cover and
which risks they want to exclude
Mrs Hs policy, like most other home emergency insurance policies, excludes cover Aviva 
What is Covered?
Plumbing and Drainage: You are covered for problems relating to your plumbing and 
drainage. The engineer will resolve the immediate problem by repairing or replacing 
leaking pipes; clearing blocked drains; repairing taps; restoring toilet facilities, 
repairing leaking overflows; investigating the causes of noisy pipes and quietening 
these where they can be accessed. The engineer will leave a blocked drain running 
clear or repair a damaged section of drain which is leaking or causing a permanent 
blockage.
The policy also excludes:
systems/equipment/appliances that have not been installed, serviced or maintained 
regularly according to British Standards and/or manufacturers instructions.
Mrs H disputes that the toilet blockage was caused by the way it was installed. She says the 
fact it had not blocked previously indicates this is not the cause of the recent blockages.  
Mrs H suggested we should ask for evidence from the building inspector that inspected the 
works on her property to support that it was installed correctly. We are an informal service 
and do not have the same rules of evidence as a court. We consider everything provided to 
us and may also ask for further information from the parties. We would not obtain evidence 
on behalf of either party. As no independent evidence about the installation has been 
provided, I have to consider the evidence that has been provided to me to determine what I 
think is most likely. 
Two of Avivas contractors said the toilet has not been installed correctly. They both said the 
pan connector was a u-bend to the soil pipe in the floor and the u-bend was causing the toilet to block, but they could not change it without moving the toilet away from the  wall, as 
the soil pipe is not positioned correctly. I have no reason to doubt what they have said, given 
this is their area of expertise and they inspected the toilet. 
Mrs H also says that when the toilet was blocking after it had been rodded, she was able to 
clear it by pouring buckets of water down it. This does seem to be consistent with what 
Avivas contractors said. I say this because it seems to me that if there were a broken pipe, 
or a larger blockage further down the soil pipe or drain, it seems unlikely that pouring 
buckets of water down it would clear it. 
Aviva did clear the blockage by rodding the toilet. I note Mrs H says it intermittently blocked 
again afterwards but she said has been able to clear this by pouring water down it. I think 
Aviva did therefore do what was required to restore toilet flow in accordance with the terms 
of the policy. Avivas contractors did also suggest that they could provide a more permanent 
repair by replacing the connector and then by moving the toilet forward but ultimately Avivas 
contractor said this was not a feasible option. 
I note Mrs H says she was not given the option of having it moved forward and feels there 
would have been room but I do not think it was unreasonable of Aviva to decline to do this. 
The policy excludes cover for faults arising from systems that have not been installed 
properly. 
Mrs H says that she could not have been expected to know about the way the toilet was 
installed. Thats true but insurers are entitled to decide they do not want to provide cover for 
faults that are pre-existing and as a result of the way a system has been installed. The terms 
in Mrs Hs policy are common to most other similar home emergency policies that I am 
aware of and I do not consider it to be inherently unfair or unreasonable to rely on this 
exclusion. 
For the reasons given above, I therefore do not think Aviva needs to do anything further to 
rectify the position of the soil pipe or replace the connector. 
Mrs H also says that this means Aviva was taking money for cover it would never provided. 
Mrs Hs policy provides cover for her heating system, electrics and plumbing and drainage. 
Aviva did attend to clear the blockage that Mrs H was unable to clear herself and other 
issues not related to the installation will be covered. I do not think that the fact Mrs Hs claim 
didnt meet the terms of the policy, means that the policy is fundamentally unsuitable.
Aviva did accept that it should have told Mrs H that the claim was not covered sooner than it 
did and offered £150 compensation for this/ Having considered everything I agree this is 
reasonable to reflect the trouble caused to Mrs H, who had to accommodate further 
contractor visits which werent required. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Aviva 
Insurance Limited should pay Mrs H £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman