DRN-2559450
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly 
declined a terminal illness claim.
Mr and Mrs L are represented in this complaint by their daughter, but to keep things simple 
Ill refer only to Mr and Mrs L.
What happened
In April 2007, Mr and Mrs L took out a joint life policy which included terminal illness cover. 
The policy terms say On the death of the Life Assured before the Expiry Date, or upon 
diagnosis of a Terminal Illness at least 18 months before the Expiry Date there shall become 
payable the Sum Assured of £175,000.00. 
And the policys terminal illness definition says If either Life Assured has a Terminal Illness, 
namely an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness where, in the opinion of an 
attending Consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no greater than 
12 months, Legal & General will make an advance payment of the Sum Assured. This 
benefit will not be available during the 18 months immediately before the Expiry Date. Once 
the payment has been made the policy will terminate and no further benefit will be payable.
The policys expiry date is 30 April 2021. Therefore, the last eighteen months of the policy 
began on 30 October 2019.  
Sadly, in late August or early September 2019 Mr L was diagnosed with stage four bowel 
cancer which had progressed to his liver. Mr and Mrs L submitted a terminal illness claim to 
L&G in September 2019. And in October 2019, Mr L began treatment. 
L&G obtained a medical report from Mr Ls treating oncologist (Dr S), and Mr and Mrs L 
provided L&G with a copy of a DS1500 report from Mr Ls general practitioner (GP). But 
L&G declined Mr and Mrs Ls claim as it didnt think the policys terminal illness definition had 
been met. 
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs L say Dr S told them Mr Ls life expectancy was now nine to twelve 
months. Mr and Mrs L provided further medical evidence to L&G and asked it to reconsider 
the terminal illness claim. But L&G didnt change its position. Ultimately, it said the medical 
evidence hadnt confirmed Mr Ls life expectancy was no greater than twelve months prior to 
30 October 2019, when the last eighteen months of the policy started. And that Mr Ls life 
expectancy became less than twelve months after this date, in April 2020, when his 
response to treatment was known. So L&G said the policys terminal illness definition hadnt 
been met. L&G explained terminal illness cover is an advanced payment of the policys life 
cover, and it would still consider a claim on the policys life cover until the end of the policy in 
April 2021.
Mr and Mrs L said L&G was unfair and morally wrong to decline the claim. They said theyd 
submitted the claim before the last eighteen months of the policy. And Mr L had less than 
twelve months to live. And they continued to pay premiums after doing so for many years. 
L&G didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. It reiterated why it had declined the claim. And 
said it must assess claims against the policy wording and couldnt pay a claim if the policy 
definition hadnt been met. 
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to our service. They said that when Mr L was given his 
diagnosis, he was told his life expectancy was between six and twelve months without 
treatment. And Mr L hadnt been sure about having treatment because he was worried about 
the side effects and his quality of life. But that he started treatment because he didnt want to 
die. And Mrs L was now left in very difficult financial circumstances. So they thought L&G 
gave Mr L an impossible choice between his own life and his familys financial security.
Mr and Mrs L pointed out a charity had defined terminal illness as a disease or condition 
which cannot be cured and is likely to lead to death, and that Mr Ls cancer was never 
curable with treatment only being palliative. They said L&G was wrong to consider 
Mr Ls treatment when assessing the claim. And theyd paid for the policy in good faith and 
were very upset to be fighting for this claim while Mr L was terminally ill. Mr and Mrs L also 
asked our service to work with a campaign highlighting what they saw to be malpractice 
across the life insurance industry and the distress it causes consumers.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. She said L&G had fairly relied on 
the medical evidence and acted in line with the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They said life expectancy depended on the individual, with 
averages just based on statistics. And the campaign Mr and Mrs L had asked our service to 
join provided further comments on Mr and Mrs Ls behalf. Ive summarised these:
The terminal illness claim was made prior to the last eighteen months of the policy. At 
that time, Mr Ls consultant general and colorectal surgeon (Dr P) said Mr Ls life 
expectancy was between nine to twelve months. 
L&G failed to contact Dr P and instead contacted Mr Ls treating oncologist (Dr S) 
who provided a statistical average life expectancy that didnt account for Mr Ls 
circumstances. 
L&G didnt check why Dr S gave Mr L a longer life expectancy than Dr P. And L&G 
should rely on Dr P as the life expectancy they gave was more detailed and focused 
on Mr Ls true condition.
L&G were negligent in offering a product that created these distressing situations.
L&G has caused Mr L severe mental distress which is unacceptable under the 
Human Rights Act 1998.
There has been a judicial review and a Parliamentary report concerning legislation 
requiring claimants of government benefits to demonstrate death can reasonably be 
expected within six months.
As Mr and Mrs L disagreed with our investigator, this complaint was passed to me for 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to say how sorry I am to hear of Mr Ls illness. I realise this is an extremely 
difficult and distressing time for him and his family. I appreciate why this claim and complaint 
are so very important to them, and their strength of feeling. Id also like to acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ls point that L&G caused Mr L a level of mental 
distress unacceptable under the Human Rights Act 1998, as well as their reference to a 
judicial review and a Parliamentary report. But I dont think that judicial review or report affect 
the outcome of this complaint, as I understand the circumstances to be different. 
I dont doubt L&G declining this claim caused Mr and Mrs L enormous distress, and I dont 
want to cause them any further distress. But having carefully considered everything that both 
sides have provided, I dont think L&G has unreasonably declined the claim. I realise this 
isnt the answer Mr and Mrs L were hoping for, but I hope its helpful if I explain how Ive 
reached this conclusion. 
Before I do, I need to be clear that I cant consider what Mr and Mrs L see to be malpractice 
across the life insurance industry. Its not the role of our service to regulate the insurance 
industry. That is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, its the role of our 
service to impartially consider Mr and Mrs Ls individual complaint that L&G has unfairly 
declined a terminal illness claim they made. 
Mr and Mrs L say a terminal illness is defined as a disease or condition which cannot be 
cured and is likely to lead to death and that Mr Ls cancer was never curable. That may be 
one definition of terminal illness. But the policy terms and conditions set out a specific 
definition for when a terminal illness claim will be paid. And its this policy definition that 
needs to be met in order for a terminal illness claim to be paid under Mr and Mrs Ls policy. 
That definition says If either Life Assured has a Terminal Illness, namely an advanced or 
rapidly progressing incurable illness where, in the opinion of an attending Consultant and our 
Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no greater than 12 months, Legal & General will 
make an advance payment of the Sum Assured. This benefit will not be available during the 
18 months immediately before the Expiry Date. Once the payment has been made the policy 
will terminate and no further benefit will be payable.
I agree Mr and Mrs L submitted the terminal illness claim before the last eighteen months of 
the policy, which started on 30 October 2019. But the policys terminal illness definition 
means that for a claim to be paid under this part of the policy, Mr Ls consultant and L&Gs 
Chief Medical Officer (CMO) must agree Mr Ls life expectancy was no greater than twelve 
months before that date. And the medical evidence suggests that wasnt the case.
A letter from Dr P, Mr Ls consultant surgeon, dated 13 November 2020 sets out the 
circumstances of Mr Ls diagnosis, saying Given that he had metastatic colorectal cancer at 
presentation his meeting [sic] survival was likely to be 9 - 12 months without any treatment. 
His case has been referred to the Liver Surgeons at [hospital] and I proceeded to consent 
him for an operation to remove the caecal cancer.
However, it wasnt the case that Mr L didnt have any treatment. Mr and Mrs L have told us 
he started chemotherapy soon after his diagnosis and went on to have bowel surgery and 
further chemotherapy.  Mr and Mrs L say L&G was wrong to take this treatment into account 
when assessing the claim. But Im satisfied it was reasonable for L&G to consider all the 
relevant medical evidence when assessing this claim, and its fair to say Mr Ls treatment 
was relevant since it would likely have a bearing on his life expectancy.
In assessing the claim, L&G asked Dr S to complete a report. Regarding Mr Ls life 
expectancy, Dr S said Average from diagnosis for metastatic colorectal cancer is 
approximately 2 years. and went on to say this was an average only and that it was too 
early to assess Mr Ls response to treatment. I know Mr and Mrs L say L&G should have 
asked Dr P for information and not Dr S, and that the two year life expectancy given by Dr S 
is only a statistical average. But Dr S was Mr Ls treating oncologist and their report was specifically about Mr L, completed at a time Mr L was having treatment in the form of 
chemotherapy. So Im satisfied it was reasonable for L&G to rely on this report. 
Sadly, Mr and Mrs L say that in April 2020 Mr L was told by Dr S that a lump in his liver was 
inoperable and his life expectancy was between nine to twelve months. Dr Ss letter dated 
17 June 2020 says The current estimated life expectancy in this situation would be 
approximately 2 years from diagnosis. Mr [L]s original diagnosis was in August 2019. And 
Mr [L] has specifically asked that I comment on whether or not it seems likely that his life 
expectancy could be less than 12 months. I can confirm that sadly it is possible that his life 
expectancy could be less than 12 months.
Given the medical evidence Ive been provided with, I think it was reasonable for L&G to 
conclude that Mr Ls life expectancy wasnt twelve months or less prior to 30 October 2019, 
as required by the policy definition. His treating oncologist instead says it was two years. 
And I can see L&Gs CMO agreed with this.
The evidence suggests Mr Ls life expectancy became twelve months or less in April 2020, 
within the last eighteen months of the policy. And the policy terms say a terminal illness 
claim isnt payable in this period. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to 
decline this terminal illness claim, though I realise this will be very upsetting and 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs L. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman