DRN-3342210
The complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial 
Services (VWFS) unfairly terminated his hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
Mr S acquired a car under a 60 month hire purchase agreement with VWFS in August 2019. 
The car cost around £14,000. Under the agreement, Mr S was required to make 60 
payments of £277.50. 
In July 2020, Mr S requested a three month payment deferral from VWFS. This was 
approved. In December 2020, a further three month payment deferral was approved. In   
July 2021, VWFS terminated Mr Ss agreement as there were outstanding arrears which    
Mr S hadnt paid. 
Following this, Mr S complained to VWFS and said he was told by it to ignore any 
correspondence he received from it. He also said he wasnt aware his Direct Debit hadnt 
been reinstated and said VWFS refused to take payment from him.
VWFS issued its response to Mr Ss complaint in August 2021. It said it wrote to Mr S in 
February 2021 and said repayments would restart in three weeks following the payment 
deferral coming to an end. It said as there were outstanding arrears and Mr S hadnt 
discussed these with VWFS, it terminated the agreement. It said it couldnt locate the calls 
Mr S said he had tried to make to pay the arrears and so it said it terminated the agreement 
correctly.
Unhappy with this, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said that he was told to cancel his monthly Direct Debit instruction as VWFS had 
attempted to take payment in December 2020, despite him being in a payment deferral. 
However, he agreed that VWFS told him his Direct Debit would be reinstated. But he said 
when he complained to VWFS, he was told to ignore any correspondence and that his 
account was placed on hold whilst it investigated his complaint. He said to put things right, 
he wanted VWFS to reinstate his agreement, to allow him to repay the arrears and to amend 
his credit file.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think VWFS had unfairly terminated the 
agreement. He said he hadnt been provided with any supporting information to suggest     
Mr S was told to ignore correspondence from VWFS while an investigation took place. He 
also said he thought it was likely Mr S cancelled his Direct Debit instructions and VWFS 
couldnt reinstate this without Mr Ss consent. 
Mr S disagreed and said he received the correspondence from VWFS but was told to ignore 
it. He also said he was told to complete a form to confirm he was in financial difficulty, but as 
he wasnt, he didnt complete the form. Mr S said he wasnt told his Direct Debit had failed 
and when he tried to make the arrears payment in full, this was rejected. He also said VWFS 
had incorrectly updated his credit file, his agreement was missing online when he logged into 
the portal and his bank told him VWFS hadnt attempted to amend or present a Direct Debit 
from his bank account.
Our investigator said VWFS had provided evidence to show Mr Ss credit file had been 
amended. And it said that VWFS said there would be limitations on the information Mr S 
could access online. He said the screen shot Mr S had provided didnt confirm whether it 
was taken before or after the agreement was terminated. But Mr S said his agreement 
wasnt showing at all on the online portal.
As Mr S remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr S has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
What I need to decide in this case is whether VWFS unfairly terminated Mr Ss agreement. If 
it did, Ill need to think about whats fair to put things right.
Mr Ss second payment deferral was approved in December 2020. This covered three 
monthly payments between December 2020 and February 2021. It also meant that Mr S 
would need to recommence making payments under his agreement in March 2021.
VWFS sent Mr S a Notice of Sums in Arrears in April 2021. As VWFS didnt receive a 
payment from Mr S, it sent him a Default Notice in May 2021 and explained it would 
terminate the agreement and repossess the car if Mr S didnt pay the outstanding arrears. It 
also sent Mr S payment reminders between April and July 2021. It didnt receive payment 
from Mr S and so it terminated the agreement.
Mr S isnt disputing that he didnt get these letters or text messages from VWFS. Instead he 
says he was told to ignore these letters by VWFS due to an ongoing complaint he had. 
However, no supporting information has been provided by Mr S to suggest he made a 
complaint within the time period that VWFS had sent him these letters. I can see that our 
investigator requested supporting information from Mr S, but he was unable to provide any. 
In addition, VWFS has no record of Mr S making any complaints until after the agreement 
was terminated. Ive also checked the contact notes for Mr Ss account which have been 
supplied by VWFS and they show VWFS received no contact from Mr S between the second 
payment deferral being approved in December 2020 and July 2021. I understand Mr S has 
said he was told VWFS system had crashed when he was making one of his complaints, but 
again there is no supporting information to confirm this. 
Having thought carefully about this, on balance, given theres no supporting information to 
suggest a complaint was raised by Mr S between February 2021 and July 2021, I think its 
more likely than not, that Mr S didnt make a complaint before the agreement was 
terminated. And so I think the agreement was terminated correctly. 
In addition, Mr S was aware that his three month payment deferral was due to end in 
February 2021 and so payments would need to recommence in March 2021. And he hadnt 
applied for a further payment deferral which would mean he didnt need to make 
repayments. So I think he was aware that hed need to start making repayments under the 
agreement from March 2021. Mr S has also said he wasnt in any financial difficulty after the 
payment deferral, and so I think its unlikely VWFS would have instructed Mr S to not make 
any payments whilst it investigated any complaint, given he still had use of the car.Mr S has also said he tried to make the arrears payment in full but at the time he did this, the 
agreement had already been terminated. So Mr S was liable for the full amount of the 
agreement. 
VWFS has provided this service with supporting information to show it hasnt recorded any 
adverse information to the credit reference agencies whilst Mr S had payment deferrals. It 
has shown that it has only reported adverse information after Mr S missed a payment in 
March 2021. In light of this supporting information being provided, Im satisfied that VWFS 
have reported accurate information to the credit reference agencies about Mr Ss agreement. 
If incorrect information is still being shown on his credit file, Mr S may wish to take this up 
with the credit reference agencies directly.
Mr S has also said his agreement didnt appear when he logged into the VWFS online portal. 
As our investigator has pointed out, its unclear when this screenshot was taken as it isnt 
dated. But even if Mr S hadnt been able to see the agreement on the online portal, I dont 
think it makes a difference as no payments were made towards the agreement from     
March 2021. And if Mr S was attempting to make a payment through the online portal and 
the agreement wasnt showing before it was terminated, I would have reasonably expected 
him to raise this with VWFS  but the supporting information supplied confirms he didnt do 
this.
So overall, I dont think VWFS unfairly terminated Mr Ss hire purchase agreement. And so it 
follows that I dont require VWFS to take any remedial action.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman