DRN-3012345
The complaint
Mr R complains that, in 1998, Countrywide Assured Plc failed to fairly assess the 
compensation he should be paid when it concluded that some advice hed been given to 
leave an occupational pension scheme (OPS) had been unsuitable.
What happened
In 1989 Mr R was advised to leave his OPS and instead make pension contributions to a 
personal pension. That advice, and the subsequent review, was provided by Irish Life 
Assurance. Irish Life is now the responsibility of Countrywide, and so it is that firm that is 
required to deal with Mr Rs complaint. For ease, in this decision, I will refer to Countrywide 
as the responsible business throughout.
In the late 1990s the financial regulator at the time became concerned about whether some 
pension transfers from occupational pension schemes had been in the best interests of 
consumers. So all firms were required to offer to review the advice that had previously been 
provided and to check whether consumers had lost out as a result of incorrect advice to 
leave occupational schemes.
In 1998 Countrywide told Mr R that it had completed a review on the advice it had given to 
him. That review concluded that Mr R had lost out because of the advice hed received to 
take out a personal pension. So Countrywide told Mr R it would provide him with 
compensation by adding some additional units to his pension plan. It told him that if he was 
unhappy with the outcome he could raise the matter with a named member of staff at 
Countrywide. Or it told him he could raise a complaint with the PIA Ombudsman scheme  a 
predecessor of this Service.
Recently Mr R has been starting to consider how he might use his pension benefits to 
provide for his retirement. He says that, despite the compensation he was paid, he has 
recently discovered he would have been much better off remaining as a member of his 
occupational pension scheme. So he asked Countrywide to reconsider whether the 
compensation it had given him in 1998 had been appropriate. Countrywide explained that 
the pensions review exercise was intended to be a one-off and so it wasnt appropriate for it 
to reconsider the compensation it had paid.
Mr R brought his complaint to this Service. His complaint has been assessed by one of our 
investigators. He said that it appeared that Countrywide had carried out the review in line 
with the regulators guidance. And since he agreed with Countrywide that the review had 
been designed as a one-off exercise he didnt think Countrywide needed to do anything 
further.
 
Mr R didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr R and by Countrywide. 
The review that Countrywide completed for Mr R in 1998 was part of a large industry wide 
exercise supervised and devised by the industry regulator at the time. In many cases, such 
as this, it wasnt possible for consumers to be reinstated into the occupational pension 
schemes they had been advised to leave. So the aim of the review was to check whether the 
value of the pension investments Mr R held with Countrywide would provide similar benefits 
to those hed have received from his occupation scheme at retirement.
But a significant problem that was faced in making these calculations was that for many 
people, including Mr R, there was a lengthy period left before their expected retirement date. 
So the calculations were based on a number of assumptions that were necessary because 
of this. The then regulator set out how the calculation needed to be done, and the 
assumptions that all firms had to use to assess any potential loss.
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent mirrored reality  and annuity rates have also 
fallen significantly. Both of these factors have had a big impact, meaning that the benefits 
provided by personal pensions are lower than might reasonably have been anticipated when 
the review was completed in 1998. So although the review suggested the compensation paid 
to Mr R would mean his pension savings would be expected to at least match the benefits he 
would have received from the occupational scheme at retirement, circumstances have 
meant that this isnt now the case.
The aim of the pensions review was effectively to draw a line under any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one-off exercise, and Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Countrywide failed to carry out the review of Mr Rs situation as it was required to. 
I do understand why Mr R is unhappy that his expected pension benefits are likely to be less 
than he might have received from the occupational scheme. But it was the then regulators 
decision on how to deal with the mis-selling problem. And so it is not something this Service 
should now challenge or ignore.
I understand that what I am saying here will be hugely disappointing for Mr R. Although the 
events of the intervening years could not have been anticipated, he will now be left with a 
pension that is significantly less than hed have received if hed stayed as a member of the 
occupational scheme.
But as Ive said earlier, the industry regulator set the terms on which the review should be 
conducted in order to consider whether incorrect advice had been given, and how any 
failings should be put right. That review was designed to give certainty to both businesses 
and consumers about what compensation needed to be paid and not leave matters 
outstanding for many years to come. So it isnt reasonable for me to expect Countrywide to 
pay additional compensation to that which was required by the review process as the time. 
So I dont think Countrywide needs to do anything further on this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Countrywide Assured Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman