DRN-2895690
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked his account while he was overseas, forcing 
him to return to the UK earlier than he had planned.
What happened
In 2020 Mr T sold a car for a five-figure sum. He was abroad at the time, so his son dealt 
with the sale in his absence. For a number of reasons, HSBC considered the payments into 
his account to be suspicious, and so it blocked his account on the ground that there was a 
risk of fraud.
This was extremely inconvenient to Mr T, because he was abroad at the time, and he had 
not planned to return to the UK for another month. He tried to speak to the bank on the 
phone, but HSBC required him to come into a branch in person. The person who had bought 
the car spoke to HSBC and confirmed the sale was legitimate, but the block remained. 
Mr Ts son went on his behalf, but the bank would not speak to him, since he was not the 
account holder. So Mr T had to take an early flight back to the UK, where he stayed for four 
days. During that visit he attended a branch of HSBC and the account was unblocked the 
next day. He complained, and asked for a refund of his expenses for that trip, which he said 
came to £500.
HSBC said it had done nothing wrong. It said it had had sound reasons for blocking the 
account, which it had done in accordance with its terms and conditions. So it argued that it 
was not liable for Mr Ts travel expenses. Our investigator agreed with that reasoning, and 
so he did not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T asked for an ombudsmans decision. He argued that HSBC had not had a good enough 
reason to block the account in the first place. He also said that the buyers word should have 
been enough to unblock the account, without Mr T having to return to the UK.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I am satisfied that HSBC did have rational reasons for deciding to block the account. My 
approach to this question has been to assess whether the bank was entitled to decide, on 
the information it had at the time, that it should block the account, rather than to substitute 
my own opinion. That is because I think that when it comes to matters of potential fraud or 
money laundering, banks should be allowed a wide margin of latitude when they are 
considering what to do.
In this instance, HSBCs decision to block the account was based on more than one factor. 
In no particular order, these were:
The amount of money being paid, which was not typical of the account history,
The fact that on the day of the purchase, the buyer had told HSBC that he was 
present at Mr Ts house in the UK at the time of the sale, when the address 
registered to the account was an address overseas,
The fact that the buyer had said, at the end of the call, thanks for giving me the 
money for free, which had made the call handler suspicious. I have verified that he 
said this by listening to the call recording.
That comment by the buyer does not make much sense, since he had been spending 
money, not receiving it, and I accept that there must be an innocent explanation. But I can 
see why HSBC thought it merited further investigation at the time, because its odd, and it is 
the call handlers job to be vigilant.
I find the second reason in the list above to be less persuasive, since two addresses were 
registered to Mr Ts account at the time, and one of them was in the UK. Its possible that the 
call handler hadnt noticed that address when she referred the case to the fraud department. 
I have seen a screenshot of the account profile with both addresses, and the overseas 
address is listed first, and listed twice (once under home and again under 
correspondence), so it is more conspicuous, and the UK address may have just been 
missed. If this had been the only reason for blocking the account, I may have taken a 
different view of this complaint. But there were two other reasons.
I think the most convincing reason is the large sum of money involved. That was always 
likely to attract HSBCs attention. Even if this had been the only reason for blocking the 
account, I would have accepted it has sufficient reason for doing so.
Having blocked the account, it is unfortunate that it was necessary for Mr T to travel to the 
UK, contrary to his plans, to have the block lifted. But I think that HSBC was entitled to ask 
him to come in for a face to face visit, to verify the identity of the person it was speaking to. 
That can often be done on the phone, but that way is less certain, and so I will not say that 
HSBC had to be satisfied with a phone call. Nor could HSBC accept what Mr Ts son told it, 
because he was a third party who had no connection to the account.
Because I have decided that the bank did nothing wrong, it follows that it is not liable for the 
trouble and expense Mr T was forced to go to in order to have his account unblocked, no 
matter how inconvenient it was for him. Im sorry that this will come as a disappointment to 
him, as I can appreciate how frustrating the whole experience must have been. But my remit 
is only to decide whether HSBC has made a mistake, and I dont think it did. Its true that this 
was a legitimate purchase, but security procedures for preventing fraud and money 
laundering will often interfere with valid transactions as well as the transactions they are 
designed to prevent. Im afraid that cannot be helped.
For future reference, in case Mr T has any plans to carry out any more high-value 
transactions, it would be best to either do them while he is in the UK, or open a joint account 
with his son, or give his son a third party mandate on his account so the bank can speak to 
him about it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 Richard Wood
Ombudsman