DRN-4072055
The complaint
Mr W complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of their buildings insurance claim. 
All references to AXA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my intended decision.
This decision focusses on events covered in AXAs final response of October 2022. Any 
reference to events following this date, or not covered under this complaint, are for 
contextual purposes only.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ws complaint be upheld. In summary she said the 
compensation AXA offered Mr W was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Further developments
I wrote to both parties on 17 May 2023 because I was intending to come to a different 
outcome to our investigator. I said:
Compensation
AXA have acknowledged it has failed to effectively progress the claim at points during the 
claim  and couldve provided better service. I can see Mr W has spent a considerable 
amount of time trying to proactively progress matters and resolve issues in the property, 
related to the claim, for his tenant. This included making payments to have works completed 
out of his own pocket due to the urgency required.
Having considered the time between the claim being initiated to around the time AXA 
provided payment to Mr W, and its final response, the amount of avoidable delays amounts 
to around half of this time period.
Although Mr W has said he isnt claiming for loss of rent, I do acknowledge his tenant ended 
their agreement early due to persistent issues in the property following the escape of water.
Which, up to that point AXA had not assisted in resolving.
AXA has offered Mr W £200 for the inconvenience caused. But having considered 
everything, Im intending to direct AXA to raise this to £500, as I think this more fairly 
represents the inconvenience he has been caused.
The boiler
At the time of issuing the final response in October 2022 AXA said further validation was 
required before it considered costs for the replacement of the boiler. I can see this was 
addressed under a separate final response in March 2023 and has been considered by our 
service under a separate complaint, so I wont comment on this further here.
Settlement
Mr W has referenced in his submission to our service he feels there are outstanding 
amounts that havent been included in AXAs settlement. Ive set out my position above on 
the boiler. So, I will not comment on this further here.
If it has not already done so, AXA should consider on production of suitable proof such as 
invoices, any costs Mr W has incurred for temporary repairs or measures under the terms of 
the policy  including costs of dehumidifiers and the electrical inspection.
In particular, Mr W enquired with AXA whether it had someone from its panel of contractors 
that could inspect the electrics due to ongoing issues. AXA didnt respond following chasers 
from Mr W, so due to the urgency Mr W arranged for this to be done independently. Im 
intending to direct AXA to meet the costs Mr W incurred plus 8% interest from the date the 
invoice was paid to the date it makes payment to him.
AXA have not provided any further response.
Mr W did agree with my intended findings. He has provided a further detailed submission for 
me to consider. I do not intend to reference it in full here, but I can confirm I have reviewed 
its content in full. However, in summary:
Mr W spoke of the mishandling of matters from AXA and its appointed agents.
Mr W referred to the boiler issue.
Mr W didnt agree the amount of compensation proposed in my intended findings 
reflected the distress and inconvenience he has suffered, or to sufficiently punish 
AXA for the way it handled his claim. He has also mentioned a sum of over £12,000 
was initially approved by AXA for compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr W has said, and I understand he feels strongly about whats 
happened. I want to assure him Ive read and carefully considered everything he has said. 
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. 
This isnt meant to be discourteous, but the purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by all parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
Having reviewed everything afresh my decision  and my reasoning remain the same. 
Compensation
Our service isnt a regulator. So, we dont make punitive awards and unlike a court our 
awards of compensation are relatively modest in comparison. I understand why Mr W 
considers I should award a significant amount of compensation. However, having reviewed 
everything available to me, Im satisfied the award I made in my intended findings is fair and reasonable in recognising the inconvenience Mr W has been caused by AXAs actions for 
the matters, and the period of time, Im considering in this complaint.
Mr W has referenced AXA initially approved a sum of over £12,000 for compensation. While 
I have seen a similar figure referenced in correspondence, this relates to the potential 
settlement of a claim. Not compensation.
The boiler
At the time of issuing the final response in October 2022 AXA said further validation was 
required before it considered costs for the replacement of the boiler. I can see this was 
addressed under a separate final response in March 2023 and this has been considered by 
our service under a separate complaint. So, as I said above, I wont be commenting on this 
further here.
For the reasons set out in my provisional findings, and those above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right I direct AXA to:
Consider on production of suitable proof such as invoices, any costs Mr W has 
incurred for temporary repairs or measures under the terms of the policy  including 
costs of dehumidifiers and the electrical inspection.
8% simple interest should be paid on the above, from the date the invoice was paid 
to the date AXA makes payment to Mr W.
Pay Mr W £500 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
To put things right I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman