DRN-2502077
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd was misrepresented to him. He says he wants Blue Motor to accept 
his rejection of the car and cancel the agreement.
What happened
Our investigator has set out in detail the background to this complaint, so I will only 
summarise briefly. Mr M obtained a second-hand electric car using a hire purchase 
agreement. He says he told the supplying dealer that he needed the car to get to and from 
work  a journey of around 45 miles each way. He says he was told the car would get him to 
work on a full charge. But he says the only way he can complete the journey on one charge 
is if he drives no faster than 55mph and if he doesnt use the fan or heater.
Blue Motor said the car was running correctly for its age and that it was Mr Ms responsibility 
to make sure the car met his requirements before he signed the agreement.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded it was 
more likely than not that a conversation did take place about the mileage the car could 
cover, and that Mr M was given the wrong information. She recommended the agreement be 
cancelled, the car collected and that Blue Motor pay Mr M £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. She thought Blue Motor should retain the payments Mr M has made 
under the terms of the agreement to cover his use of the car.
Blue Motor didnt agree. It said, in summary, that Mr M had admitted to buying the wrong car 
and that the mileage the car can achieve is heavily impacted by driving conditions and style. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The performance of the car does not seem to be in dispute. In that Mr M has provided 
evidence of when it needs re-charging and how he has to drive to get the maximum number 
of miles. And Blue Motor says theres no fault with the car and its range is as expected, 
taking into account driving conditions and style and the age of the car.
What is in dispute here  and what I need to decide  is whether the car was misrepresented 
to Mr M.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr M. If it was, and if I thought Mr M would not have proceeded with the 
deal if hed been aware of the true facts, then I would think Blue Motor was responsible and 
Id ask it to take some further action.
Mr Ms testimony has been consistent throughout this complaint. He says he told the 
supplying dealer about the length of his commute and that, whilst he ideally would like to 
cover the round trip in one charge, he could re-charge the car at work. He says the supplying 
dealer reassured him he would be able to complete his journey to work on a full charge.
Blue Motor says the supplying garage wouldnt tell a consumer how many miles they can 
cover, because it depends on so many factors. The member of staff would only tell a 
consumer what the manufacturers guidelines say.
I cant be sure of the exact details of the conversation. But I do think Mr Ms commute was 
discussed because this was going to be the main use of the car. And I think the cars range 
would have been important to him. The suppling garage was the expert in the conversation, 
and it should have made it clear to Mr M that the cars range might be affected by various 
factors, including its age and the way it is driven. Mr M says he was given reassurance he 
would be able to complete his journey to work on one charge. He should have been told that 
in fact the range would be affected by the cars speed and the other functions being used, 
such as heating. 
Had Mr M been given information about the true mileage likely in the car, or the way it 
needed to be driven to reach the maximum mileage, I dont think he would have gone ahead 
with the finance agreement. 
Blue Motor says it was Mr M who made a mistake  he said hed chosen the wrong car. But 
this doesnt make a difference to my conclusion. He chose the car based on the information 
provided to him by the supplying garage. And Ive found that the supplying garage 
misrepresented that information.
Taking into account all the circumstances here, I think Blue Motors should accept Mr Ms 
rejection of the car. The agreement shows that Mr M did not pay a deposit. I think its fair that 
Blue Motor retains the monthly payments made by Mr M to reflect his use of the car.
And I agree with our investigator that £250 compensation is fair and reasonable for the 
distress and inconvenience this has caused Mr M.
Putting things right
Blue Motor Finance Ltd should:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further for Mr M to pay.
2. Collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr M.
3. Record the credit search done by Blue Motor Finance Ltd as settled or remove it from 
Mr Ms credit file altogether.
4. Pay £250 compensation to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd should compensate 
Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman