DRN-3741233
The complaint
Ms I is unhappy that Revolut Ltd only partially refunded her money she lost as a result of an 
investment fraud.
What happened
Ms I held an account with Revolut. In 2020, Ms I was looking for potential investments on the 
internet and came across a business she was interested in. 
Ms I says she carried out research on the company by looking at reviews left by other 
investors and was satisfied with the positive reviews shed seen. 
When she made contact with the business, she was sent a number of brochures outlining 
their services and testimonials. She was also shown positive results from previous 
successful investments.
Ms I was satisfied regarding the legitimacy of the firm and decided to invest through one of 
the business account managers in stocks and commodities. Ms I was told shed yield a 
potential annual profit of between 10-30%.
Ms I agreed to make two make two transfers to international bank accounts from her Revolut 
account:
1. Payment of £4,256.68 made on 24 March 2020
2. Payment of £4,957.65 made on 20 April 2020
Ms I began to become suspicious of the company when she was asked to pay fees when 
shed not been given any of her returns. This eventually led to Ms I realising shed been a 
victim of fraud and she reported the matter to Revolut.
Revolut considered Ms Is claim and decided to reimburse her the first payment made. It also 
provided her with a payment of £637.77 for interest and the distress and inconvenience 
caused. However, it decided not to reimburse the second payment. 
It said that it was holding Ms I liable for this as there were several warnings issued about the 
investment firm and negative reviews posted prior to her making the second payment. It 
therefore felt she could have conducted more due diligence checks before authorising the 
payment.
Ms I disagreed, so she referred her complaint to our service where it was considered by an 
Investigator. The Investigator concluded that Revolut had acted fairly in the circumstances 
and didnt recommend that it needed to do anything more. In summary, they felt that as the 
account from which the payment was made was only set up shortly before the event, it was 
difficult for Revolut to identify where a transaction was out of character for the account. As 
such, he didnt think that Revolut needed to have intervened in the payments.
Ms I, through her representative, disagreed. The representative argued that there was a 
payment prior to the transactions subject to this dispute: and this was significantly smaller. 
They also pointed out that there were other risk indicators present, such as a payment to a 
new payee and to an account overseas.
As Ms I disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
Firstly, its accepted by both parties here that Ms I authorised the payments subject to this 
dispute. While I acknowledge that these payments were made as a result of a cruel fraud 
being committed against her, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 she is 
deemed liable in the first instance.
However, taking into account the above, I consider Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which businesses are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Ms I had only opened the account less than two 
months prior to first payment to the fraudsters. And in that period, Ms I had only made one 
outgoing payment of £100. So, Revolut wouldnt have held sufficient data on the account 
that would have allowed it to deem what was unusual or out of character in terms of 
payments and activity.
Ms Is representative has argued that these payments were out of character as they held 
numerous risk factors associated with payments from victims of fraud: they were to new 
payees and to international accounts. However, I dont agree that this was sufficient to give 
cause for concern.
One of the services Revolut offers is competitive rates and fees on international money 
transfers. So, it wouldnt be unusual that customers open accounts with Revolut solely for 
the purpose of making international transfers. And as the account was new and almost 
unused, naturally any new payments set up on the account would have been to a new 
payee. I also dont find it reasonable to expect Revolut to have taken the first payment on 
Ms Is account as her usual spending pattern as one hadnt yet been established.
I must also acknowledge that a payment service provider is obliged to make payments in line with its customers instructions with undue delay. And this can be a complex issue to 
tackle against the banks obligations Ive highlighted above where its services are used in a 
more flexible manner than traditional bank account services.
So, overall, Im not persuaded that the first transaction Ms I made to the fraudsters should 
have been stopped by Revolut and scrutinised further.
At the point Ms I had made the second payment to the fraudsters, there had already been 
an international payment on the account for a similar value. So again, this wouldnt have 
appeared out of character. The second payment was also made almost one month after 
the first, indicating that there was no urgency between the two. Larger payments made in 
quick succession can be cause for concern, but Im not persuaded that is the case here.
While I appreciate some of the arguments made by Ms Is representative on her behalf, I 
also wanted to point out that even had Revolut intervened in the first payment, Im not 
persuaded this would have made a difference to the outcome. 
At the time Ms I had made the first payment, there were no warnings regarding the firm on 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys website. Ms I has also told our service that she found the 
companys website to be professional and had read positive reviews online from other 
investors that had dealt with it.
The fact that Ms I had carried out these checks before deciding to invest in the company 
shows that she was taking steps to ensure her money wasnt at risk. And those checks did 
provide her with those reassurances. While Revolut may have been able to inform Ms I of 
the relevant features associated with investment scams, I think shed already satisfied 
herself that this wasnt the case here. 
There are limited checks a business can carry out at the point it intervenes in a payment, 
and considering Ms I has already carried out a number of due dilligence checks, I dont 
think it could have done any more. Nor did the circumstances here contain indicicative 
features of investment frauds, such as being approached via cold calls and being provided 
with unrealistic promised returns.
Revolut decided to refund Ms I back the first of the two transactions, along with 8% simple 
annual interest and £50 as a gesture of goodwill. As I dont find Revolut made an error, I 
wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive provided above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman