DRN-2898731
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Xbridge Limited trading as Simply Business mis-sold legal 
expenses insurance to them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a policy with Xbridge to cover a property. Mr M went online to obtain 
some quotes and then phoned Xbridge. The call handler asked Mr M if he wanted to include 
legal expenses cover and he confirmed that he did. She explained that the policy could 
provide cover for certain types of legal disputes and outlined the main limits and exclusions. 
Mr M then confirmed he wished to go ahead and buy the policy. 
When they later tried to make a claim on the policy to cover the legal costs of a dispute, the 
claim was rejected. Mr and Mrs M complained that the policy didnt provide the cover they 
wanted and was of no use to them.
Xbridge didnt change its decision and when they brought their complaint this service our 
investigator didnt think it should be upheld. She said the information Xbridge provided at the 
time of the sale was clear, and was enough for Mr and Mrs M to decide whether they wanted 
to take out the policy.
Mr and Mrs M disagree. They say its unfair that they have paid for a policy that doesnt 
provide the cover it should provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M also complained about the claim not being covered. That complaint was 
considered separately and in this decision I am only considering whether the policy was mis-
sold to them.
As with all insurance, this policy includes various terms and conditions setting out the 
circumstances in which claims will be covered  it doesnt cover every eventuality that may 
arise and the fact that a particular claim wasnt covered doesnt in itself mean the policy was 
mis-sold. Claims are dealt with by the insurer  a different business  and Xbridge isnt 
responsible for how the claim was dealt with. 
Xbridge was responsible for the sale and so Ive looked at how the policy was sold and the 
information provided at the time.
Xbridge has said the policy was sold on a non-advised basis and it didnt give advice to 
Mr and Mrs M. In these circumstance, Xbridges duty was to provide enough information in 
advance of the sale to allow Mr and Mrs M to make a decision about whether they wanted to 
buy the policy. Any information provided had to be clear, fair and not misleading.
I have listened to the recording of the conversation when Mr M called Xbridge. He had 
obtained some online quotes and asked Xbridge to give him a quote in comparison. Xbridge 
hadnt reviewed his demands and needs and didnt give any advice or make a 
recommendation; it simply provided information about the policy. As Ive explained, in these 
circumstances where advice is not given, the duty on Xbridge was to provide clear 
information that allowed Mr and Mrs M to make their decision.
The call handler explained the benefits of the legal expenses insurance and the types of 
claims that were covered. She then explained the key exclusions and limits on cover. The 
quote was provided and Mr M asked about a cashback offer he had been offered previously. 
He was put on hold whilst the call handler looked into this. At the end of the call he said he 
wanted to go ahead with the policy.
Following this call Xbridge sent a copy of the policy documents so that Mr and Mrs M could 
review the policy terms and conditions to ensure the policy met their needs. The documents 
set out the cover provided and the limits and exclusions that apply. The call handler had 
made Mr M aware during the call that they would they have 14 days to review the 
documents and decide whether they still wanted to go ahead or to cancel the policy.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M were very disappointed that the claim they wanted to make 
wasnt covered. But when deciding whether the policy was mis-sold, I need to consider what 
happened at the time of the sale. Im satisfied that Xbridge provided enough information to 
allow Mr and Mrs M to decide whether they wanted to take out the policy, and the 
information provided to them was clear, fair and not misleading. So I dont think the policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman