DRN-3563781
The complaint
Mr G complains that the value of his pension savings transferred to another provider by 
Standard Life Assurance Limited was lower than it should have been. He says that the time 
taken to complete the disinvestment process meant that Standard Life actually received a 
higher value for his pension savings from the disinvestment than it transferred to the new 
provider.
What happened
Mr G has been assisted in making this complaint by his financial advisor. But, for ease, in 
this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr G 
himself.
Mr G held pension savings that were invested with Standard Life. In September 2020 Mr G 
decided to use his pension savings to purchase retirement benefits from another provider. 
So that provider sent a request to Standard Life for the transfer of Mr Gs pension savings 
via the automated Origo Options system. The request was received on 8 September 2020. 
So Standard Life says that is the effective date that it is using for when it considers to have 
received the instruction to make the transfer.
Standard Life says that its normal approach is that the value applied to any transfer out will 
be taken as the day of receipt of the transfer instruction. So Mr Gs pension savings being 
transferred were valued as at 8 September 2020. But the transfer itself didnt take place until 
11 September 2020. Mr G says his online reporting showed that his pension savings were 
still invested until the day before the funds were transferred. And he says that in the period 
between 8 and 11 September those pension savings had increased in value by £1,281.23.
Mr G asked Standard Life to pay the increased value of his pension savings. Standard Life 
didnt think that it should  it said that the transferred value had been calculated correctly as 
the value on the day his instruction had been received. So it didnt think it needed to pay 
anything further.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Mr Gs 
transfer had been completed in line with Standard Lifes normal process. And he thought that 
process was reasonable and in line with what we would expect to see across the industry. 
So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr G and by Standard Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
I think some of the basic facts about this complaint are not in dispute. Standard Life received 
a valid and complete instruction for the transfer of Mr Gs pension savings on 8 September. 
And it completed that request by selling Mr Gs pension investments, and sent the funds to 
the new provider on 11 September. 
Standard Life says that its normal approach is that the value of the transferred funds will be 
set at the date the instruction was received. It appears that Standard Life didnt disinvest 
Mr Gs pension savings until three days later, and a higher value was received for those 
investments than has been paid to Mr G on the basis of the earlier unit prices. 
Standard Life says that it hasnt profited from that delay. It says it is the pooled investment 
fund that receives any gains or losses from this approach. But ultimately, Mr G wont have 
benefitted from that profit, and his is the individual complaint under consideration here. 
Theres a general expectation that, once the necessary documentation has been received, a 
transfer will occur promptly. The process used by Standard Life could, in different 
circumstances where a more significant period of time has elapsed between the notional 
disinvestment date and the actual date of disinvestment, be enabling businesses to delay 
making a transfer on the basis that they could then potentially profit by offering the lower 
payment due at the earlier date, but capitalising on a higher payment received for when 
investments are sold at the later date. My view is that this could result in particularly poor 
consumer outcomes. Mr G could under such circumstances have been effectively out of the 
market for a lengthy period of time, during which the business might be capitalising on fund 
growth, and choosing a particularly favourable point at which to disinvest.
And under such circumstances, I might be inclined to say that a business such as 
Standard Life should simply pay to Mr G the sum that was realised when his pension 
savings were disinvested at the later date. Mr G would then have profited from the delay, but 
not at Standard Lifes expense. Hed simply be receiving the value which was actually 
gained from the disinvestment of his pension savings. But Standard Life, or the investment 
fund, wouldnt have profited from a lengthy amount of time it took to complete the transfer. 
To enable it to do so would create the type of moral hazard Ive outlined above.
But I dont think this is the situation here. Although it took several days for Standard Life to 
actually disinvest and transfer Mr Gs funds, I dont think this was a lengthy period of time in 
which Mr G was out of the market. I also dont think theres any indication here that 
Standard Life would have been attempting to achieve a higher value by delaying the 
disinvestment. It simply took a couple of days for the disinvestment to occur. And had the 
value of the funds dropped, Standard Life would have still needed to pay the higher value.
In summary, therefore, although I appreciate Mr Gs concern at receiving a lower value than 
may actually have been realised by the sale of his pension funds, I dont think the actual time 
he was disinvested was so lengthy as to suggest anything other than a short  - and 
importantly in my view not unfairly excessive  period of administration in which the 
transfer was processed.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Standard Life Assurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman