DRN-2723957
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) did not do enough 
checks before it granted his loans.
 
What happened
Mr S took two instalment loans from Lending Stream between January 2019 and February 
2019.  A summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Lending 
Stream, can be found below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidNo. of 
Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Combined 
Monthly Repayment
1 10/01/2019 Outstanding 6 Monthly £400.00 £102.85
2 06/02/2019 Outstanding 6 Monthly £550.00 £277.26
It appears that Mr S ran into some difficulties repaying his loans. The most recent 
correspondence from Lending Stream shows the loan is with the recoveries team. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think Lending Stream were 
wrong to lend to Mr S, based on the information it gathered about Mr Ss financial 
circumstances. The adjudicator didnt think the lenders checks needed to go as far as 
checking Mr Ss bank statements to verify the information Mr S told it.
It appears that Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicator, and in response he said Lending Stream didnt carry out 
any checks on his employment. Had it done so it wouldve seen he was between jobs at the 
time of the applications. He also said that he declared the salary he did because he thought 
that would be sufficient in order to have the loans granted. Had Lending Stream carried out 
credit checks it wouldve seen numerous other debts and missed payments with other 
creditors.  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr S could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. And I dont think Lending Stream were 
wrong to approve Mr Ss loans. Id like to explain why.
Mr S has said he was likely not working at the time as he was between jobs. And that he told 
Lending Stream he earned more than what he did, in order to get the loan because he was 
unable to make ends meet.
When Mr S applied for these loans, Lending Stream asked him to declare his monthly 
income and expenditure for each loan. And it completed a credit check. At the time of loan 1, 
Mr S declared that he was employed full time and receiving a monthly income of £2,369. The 
information he provided about his monthly expenditure amounted to £550. This would have 
left Mr S with a monthly disposable income of £1,819 of which to meet the monthly 
repayments of no more than £102.85. So, I think the information Mr S provided to the lender 
about his circumstances suggested he could comfortably meet the loan repayments.
When Lending Stream completed a credit check, it checked Mr Ss active accounts and 
whether he had any defaults. The credit check results for loan 1 showed Mr S had nine 
active accounts and no defaults showing on his credit file. Whilst Mr S had one account in 
arrears, I dont think this was likely to have concerned Lending Stream at this point. And I 
havent seen any other concerning information which suggested Mr S could not meet the 
repayments he was committing to. 
I acknowledge that Mr S feels Lending Stream shouldve known that he wasnt working. But 
he told Lending Stream that he was working full time and that he had been working for his 
employer since 2014. The information he provided wasnt unreasonable and didnt contradict 
other information Lending Stream had, so I dont think it needed to check via the way of 
wage slip or bank statements to confirm what he was telling it. So, I think it was entitled to 
rely on what it was being told, and the information it collected suggested Mr S could afford to 
make the repayments he was committed to making. When Mr S applied for loan 2 one month later, he was still repaying loan 1. This meant Mr S 
had a combined highest monthly repayment totalling £277.26 for both loans. Lending Stream 
completed the same checks as it did for his first loan. Mr S declared his income was £2,315 
and that his monthly expenditure had increased to £900. So, I think the information Mr S 
declared about his finances suggested he had more than enough disposable income to meet 
the contractual repayments.
The credit checks results showed Mr S had 10 active accounts, no defaults and one account 
in arrears showing on his credit file. As the credit check was completed only one month after 
Mr S applied for his first loan, it was likely that the extra account showing on his credit file 
was due to his previous loan Lending Stream had provided. So, I dont think the credit 
checks showed any information which ought to have concerned Lending Stream to either 
carry out further, more in-depth, checks or to have declined his application.
Im sorry to hear that Mr S was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved
difficult. And I accept that Mr Ss full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in
either the information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained from its 
credit checks. And it might be that Mr Ss full financial position may well have been apparent 
if further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained. 
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship, or based on 
the information Lending Stream knew about Mr S, that meant it needed to verify the 
information Mr S was telling it  so I dont think that it wouldve discovered that Mr S was 
having financial difficulties at the time.
It is possible that had Mr S continued to borrow from Lending Stream, that its likely it
wouldve needed to have carried out further, more in-depth, checks which may have involved
asking for evidence of his financial position. But considering Mr S took two loans and these
appeared affordable, I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to have approved them.
So, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about these loans. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr S. But I hope that hell understanding why Ive reached the
findings that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman