DRN-2349315
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AAICL) 
decision to reject a claim she made under a home insurance policy she holds jointly with Mr 
M.
All reference to AAICL include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a home insurance policy through a broker with AAICL in March 2020. 
In August 2020 Mrs M contacted AAICL to make a claim for damage caused by damp which 
they discovered while decorating. 
AAICL instructed a surveyor to visit Mr and Mrs Ms home. But a desktop evaluation was 
done instead as AAICL reviewed photos Mrs M provided of the damage. 
AAICLs in house surveyor said that the photos showed damp rising up the walls and that it 
would have been there for some time. AAICL rejected Mrs Ms claim as it said the policy 
excluded cover for damage caused by a gradual operating clause. 
In September 2020 Mrs M complained to AAICL. She was unhappy that a surveyor hadnt 
attended to physically inspect the damage. She appointed a surveyor and provided a report. 
The surveyor said the damage was caused by an overflowing hopper outside which was 
taking water from four roofs. The surveyor said this was causing damp to the side of the 
house.
AAICL reviewed the report. But it said its decision to reject the claim remained as the 
damage had been gradual over time  and it also excluded cover for damage caused by 
poor workmanship or design. 
AAICL said it arranged for a surveyor to attend. But Mrs M cancelled the appointment. Mrs M 
said she was unhappy with the way staff spoke to her. But AAICL said it was satisfied staffs 
contact with Mrs M hadnt fallen below the standard it expected. 
Mrs M remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. She said she should have 
received the same service as other customers and a surveyor should have attended her 
home to carry out an inspection of the damage. Mrs M is unhappy that the cause of damage 
given by the in house surveyor wasnt the cause described by the surveyor she appointed. 
Mrs M said she felt AAICL threatened her that it wouldnt deal with her over the phone which 
she believes is poor service. 
The investigator thought AAICL had rejected Mrs Ms claim reasonably and in line with the 
policy. He explained that it isnt unusual for an insurer to carry out a desktop evaluation.
Mrs M didnt agree. In summary she said they have paid for a policy but havent received the 
same level of customer service as other customers. There was no point in having insurance 
if she had to pay for her own surveyor. If they had relied on the in house surveyors view, 
they would have been digging up their floorboards for an issue which doesnt exist. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies are designed to cover insured perils such as flood, fire and theft rather 
than every eventuality. Its very common for insurance policies to exclude cover for damage 
that is caused gradually over time. 
AAICL told us it arranged for a surveyor to attend, but Mrs M cancelled the appointment. It 
isnt unusual for an insurer to carry out desktop evaluation if it can be done, as in this case. 
Photos provided by Mrs M clearly show significant damage caused by damp. So AAICLs in 
house surveyor was able to review the photos and form an opinion. I understand Mrs M 
says AAICLs surveyors opinion was wrong. But ultimately his view was that the damage 
had been caused over some time, which meant the claim wasnt covered. 
Had Mrs Ms surveyors report evidenced that the damage was covered under the policy, I 
would have expected AAICL to have dealt with the claim and reimbursed Mrs M for the costs 
of instructing the surveyor. However, Mrs Ms surveyor reported that the damage was 
caused by a hopper outside which was overflowing and causing water to penetrate into the 
wall of Mr and Mrs Ms home. He said the hopper was overflowing because it was taking 
water from four roofs. 
So based on the surveyors report, Mrs Ms claim wasnt covered for two reasons: the 
damage had been ongoing for some time in order for the water to penetrate into the wall  
and the damage was caused by poor design or faulty workmanship. So as Mrs Ms 
surveyors report didnt change the outcome, I dont think AAICL needs to do any more. 
Ive reviewed what Mrs M has said and AAICLs notes on the discussions that took place 
between them. I appreciate that Mrs M was very unhappy with the outcome of the claim. 
Based on the information available, I cant safely conclude that AAICL was rude to her. 
Although AAICL said it wouldnt communicate in future with Mrs M by phone, I dont think 
this prevented her from corresponding with AAICL. This was a business decision AAICL was 
entitled to make.
I understand Mrs M is very disappointed with AAICLs decision. But Im satisfied, based on 
what Ive seen, that AAICL treated Mr and Mrs M fairly and as it would any other customer in 
the same position. So I dont think AAICL needs to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman