DRN-2958659
The complaint
Ms M, through her representative, complains that Short Term Finance Limited (STFL) lent to 
her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from STFL here is a brief table of the approved loans. The first five are 
considered to be outside our jurisdiction but are relevant when considering the complaint.  
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedtermweekly 
rate
1 13/03/14 13/06/14 £100
2 21/05/14 25/07/14 £150
3 21/07/14 31/10/14 £200
4 27/10/14 26/12/14 £200
5 22/12/14 10/04/15 £300
6 07/04/15 10/07/15 £300 16w £30
7 07/07/15 02/10/15 £300 16w £30
8 29/09/15 08/01/16 £300 16w £30
9* 05/01/16 02/02/18 £350 16w £35
10 29/01/18 04/05/18 £150 16w £15
11* 01/05/18 21/09/18 £250 16w £25
12 01/05/18 21/09/18 £150 25w £15
13 21/09/18 21/11/18 £350 16w £35
14 21/11/18 20/03/19 £450 16w £45
15 20/03/19 - £450 16w £45
*repaid late
STFL responded to Ms Ms complaint with its final response letter (FRL) in which it did not 
uphold her complaint but offered to write off the outstanding balance of £100. That offer was 
still in place when our adjudicator looked at the case. 
 
STFL has explained the approach it took to its credit assessments. 
STF affordability assessments were based on the information given on each loan 
application by [Ms M] and evidenced by our agent by sight of benefit letters/confirmation, 
bank statements and utility bills and the level of credit offered based on this, her previous 
payment history and data from her credit reports.
STFL explained that its application process altered from a system used between 2014 and 
August 2018, and then from August 2018 to date. 
Both systems did indicate that STFL checked for CCJs and any other indebtedness see if 
the applicant had any financial hardship and in order to validate the expenditure information 
the applicant would have given it. 
One of our adjudicators obtained copies of screenshots which showed some financial 
information gathered by STFLs agent for September 2018, November 2018 and 
March 2019. These appear to coincide with the last three loans. 
Our adjudicator thought that STFL should put things right for Ms M from loan 6 onwards. 
STFL did not agree. The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about high cost credit and short-term 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
 
STFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that STFL should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
STFL was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M has not responded to our adjudicators opinion. 
STFL was aware from its own processes that Ms M was a single mother of three young 
children, and for most of the lending relationship her only source of income was benefits. 
STFL knew she had other debt with other lenders and so it was on notice that she was 
committed to making payments to other creditors. 
A credit search report sent to us by STFL and likely dated October or November 2019 
indicates that Ms M had two County Court Judgments  the judgment dates were 
1 August 2017 and 30 July 2019. And that credit report shows she had defaulted accounts 
going back to 2014 and 2016. This is background information and although the report sent to 
us is dated late 2019, (after her last loan) STFL has told us it regularly carried out credit 
report searches. And so I think its likely some, or all, of this information would have been 
known to STFL (depending on the dates of course) during the lending relationship. 
The above details are to show the overall picture against which I have looked at the pattern 
of STFLs lending history with Ms M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which it 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so STFL ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Ms Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6 and 
I say this because:
From loan 6 onwards Ms M was provided with a new loan within days of settling a 
previous one. So STFL ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms M was 
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his/her previous loan was leaving 
in her finances and that Ms Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ms M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed STFL. Loan 15 was 
for £450 and taken five years after her first one. And it was for a larger amount. Ms M 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to STFL over an 
extended period.
I think that Ms M lost out because STFL continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for shorter-term use over an extended period.
the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Ms Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 15 and STFL should put things right.
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress STFL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms M from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms M in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFLs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
If STFL has sold the outstanding debt it should buy these back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If STFL is not able to buy the debts back then STFL should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) STFL should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including
anything STFL  have already refunded.
B) STFL should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) STFL should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms M as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms M having made 
overpayments then STFL should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. STFL should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus
then the surplus should be paid to Ms M. However, if theres still an outstanding balance 
then STFL should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms M. 
STFL shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal STFL has already written-
off.
E) The overall pattern of Ms Ms borrowing by the time of loan 6 means any information 
recorded is adverse, so STFL should remove loans 6 - 15 entirely from Ms Ms credit file. STFL do not have to remove loans from Ms Ms credit file until they have been repaid, but 
STFL should still remove any adverse information recorded about them.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STFL to deduct tax from this interest. STFL should give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax STFL has deducted, if she asks for one. If STFL 
intend to use the refund to reduce an amount Ms M owes, STFL must do this after tax.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint in part and direct that Short Term Finance 
Limited does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman