DRN-3945110
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice by BeaconIFA Limited (Beacon) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22
December 2017.
Mr H met with Beacon in October 2017 for advice as he was worried about his pension. 
Beacon recommended him to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension and Mr H 
followed this recommendation.
In 2022 Mr H complained about the advice he was given as he says he is unsure whether 
this had been suitable for him.
Beacon rejected his complaint and subsequently one of our investigators considered Mr Hs
complaint and upheld it. He thought Mr H had been given unsuitable advice and asked 
Beacon to compensate Mr H accordingly. The investigator recommended Beacon should 
calculate redress using the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) redress methodology for 
DB transfers which was in place at the time and pay Mr H an additional £300 for the trouble 
and upset this matter had caused him.
Beacon disagreed with the investigator on his findings on suitability but offered to carry out a 
loss calculation and pay the recommended £300.  The calculations showed Mr H had not 
suffered a financial loss.
Mr H rejected the payment of £300 and wanted to wait for the introduction of new redress 
guidance by the FCA in April 2023. In May 2023, Beacon carried out calculations again 
which showed no loss and offered £500 if the complaint could be resolved informally. Mr H 
didnt accept this offer.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the course of this complaint Beacon have said they now are willing to accept this was 
unsuitable advice. As the suitability of the advice is not in dispute any longer, I will focus in 
this decision on the redress method.
The aim is to put Mr H back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had
he remained in the BSPS. Beacon carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS calculator
provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the circumstances.
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to
reflect the buy-out), had they not transferred out.
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the redress amount
owed to the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers
pension arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy- out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
Putting things right
The calculation was valid for three months, so has now expired. For this reason I ask 
Beacon to update the calculations for Mr H in line with the rules for calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out 
in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Beacon should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress 
using the most recent assumptions. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to 
Mr H and our Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence 
of what Beacon based the inputs into the calculator on.
.
The calculations should be based on Mr H ending up in the BSPS2 if he had not transferred 
his DB pension and that he would have retired at age 65.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Beacon should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,explain to him before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Beacons offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Beacon may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
I also consider it fair and reasonable for Beacon to pay Mr H a sum of £300 for any upset the 
uncertainty about his pension provisions caused him.
Mr H should co-operate with Beacon and provide them with any information they need to 
complete their calculations. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require BeaconIFA Limited to carry out the loss calculations and 
pay Mr H any due compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman