DRN-1187000
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) because it failed to cancel a 
standing order when they first requested it to do so.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr and Mrs B requested Lloyds to cancel a standing order to another 
bank. This instruction wasn't actioned by Lloyds when they requested it first time. They 
contacted Lloyds again and following further communication, Lloyds then cancelled their 
request. 
As a result of Lloyds not cancelling at the first request, the funds left Mr and Mrs B's account. 
They complained to Lloyds. It apologised for not cancelling the standing order and confirmed 
the instruction was carried out later. The other bank refunded the funds that were taken from 
Mr and Mrs B's account. In recognition for the failing, Lloyds paid
Mr and Mrs B £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with Lloyds' response and have brought the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into it and said she thought the compensation award of £50 
was fair and reasonable based on what had happened. 
Mr and Mrs B have said £50 isn't sufficient compensation for the inconvenience they were 
put through. The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision as
Mr and Mrs B didn't agree with the investigator's assessment of their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'd like to explain first that the role of this service is to decide whether businesses did what 
they should have done and whether they have acted fairly in dealing with consumers. And, 
where we think they haven't, we look to put the consumer back in the position they would've 
been had the error or failing hadn't happened. Our role isn't to punish businesses. 
The key issue for me to decide on this complaint is whether I think the compensation award 
of £50 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. It's not in dispute that 
Lloyds made an error.
With that in mind, I can see that Lloyds has accepted it made an error and didn't cancel the 
standing order when it should have. It's apologised and also put Mr and Mrs B back in the 
position as if the error hadn't happened. That is, it cancelled the standing order after it had 
been made aware of the error. The funds that were taken by the other bank, as a result of 
the standing order not being cancelled, have been refunded to Mr and Mrs B. In addition, 
Lloyds has also paid Mr and Mrs B £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have said they had to visit the branch twice and also had to 
make a few phone calls which caused them inconvenience. However, having taken 
everything into account, in the circumstances of this complaint, I'm satisfied that the award 
made by Lloyds is fair and reasonable. The error did have an impact on Mr and Mrs B but 
with the evidence available, I don't think this award ought to be more than £50. As such, I 
don't think Lloyds needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think the £50 compensation award made to Mr and Mrs B by 
Lloyds Bank PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman