DRN-3641651
The complaint
Mr B complained about the advice given by Chris Binns Wealth Management Limited (Chris 
Binns) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr B approached Chris Binns to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Hed recently 
been made redundant and a colleague recommended Chris Binns for financial advice. A fact 
find was completed in November 2017 to help Chris Binns gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. Of note, it was recorded that Mr B:
was 45 and unemployed, wanted to retire from age 57 and required an annual income in 
retirement of approximately £19,000
was married with two dependent children, aged 1 and 15
was a deferred member of a DB pension scheme  which had an estimated transfer 
value of £597,000 at the time
had shares and savings worth approximately £90,000
had two mortgages  one for his residential home and one for a buy-to-let property  
totalling around £295,000. 
Chris Binns also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk. This was initially 
assessed as adventurous but was later deemed to be balanced as Mr B didnt think 
adventurous reected the level of risk he was willing to take with his pension funds.
 
In January 2018, Chris Binns issued Mr B with its recommendation report. The report 
summarised much of what Ive outlined above and said:
the DB scheme was:
oprojected at age 60 to provide Mr B with an annual income of £25,635, or a 
reduced annual income of £18,563 if he took £123,759 as tax-free cash
oestimated at age 57 to provide Mr B with an annual income of £21,041, or a 
reduced annual income of £15,575 if he took £103,838 as tax-free cash
these figures were more than Mr B was projected to receive from a personal pension 
(although the tax-free cash he could take from a personal pension was higher)
the critical yields (which is how much the new pension needed to grow by in order to 
match the benefits of the DB scheme) and the hurdle rates (how much the new pension 
needed to grow by to match the benefits of the DB pension  but ignoring any spouses 
pension or increases in payment) were:
Retirement age Pension taken Critical yield Hurdle rate
57 Full 8.30% 1.24%
57 Reduced, with tax-free cash 7.00% 0.50%
60 Full 7.51% 2.23%
60 Reduced, with tax-free cash 6.46% 1.58%
the critical yields were potentially not achievable but the hurdle rates were potentially 
achievable. 
Chris Binns advised Mr B to transfer his DB pension to a personal pension. The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr B:
would be able to draw his pension from age 57 without a penalty being applied
wanted to be able to draw his pension flexibly and have greater control over his income 
tax position; the personal pension would give him the option of staggering his withdrawal 
levels to suit his requirements
would be able to achieve greater and more flexible death benefits for his family. 
Mr B followed the recommendation and his DB scheme was transferred to a personal 
pension.
Mr B later complained to Chris Binns. He said he was led to believe the personal pension 
was appropriate to his needs but he now believed the advice should have been to remain in 
the DB scheme. Chris Binns acknowledged the complaint but didnt provide a full response 
to it. It later responded to our service saying it felt the advice was suitable, met Mr Bs 
objectives and was in his best interests.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld and she asked Chris Binns to pay 
compensation. In summary, she didnt think Mr B should have been advised to transfer his 
pension  it was his main pension provision, and he hadnt secured any other employment at 
the time of advice. She further said there were no specific needs noted by Mr B that couldnt 
have been met whilst remaining in the DB scheme.
 
Chris Binns disagreed with our investigator saying that Mr Bs wifes position should also be 
considered. It said that although delaying the transfer could have provided greater clarity, 
there was also a possibility that the transfer value would change. It further commented that 
the critical yields were largely irrelevant due to Mr Bs objectives and that the cashflow 
modelling should also be taken into consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
General points
In response to our investigator Chris Binns referred to Mrs B in the sense that both Mr and 
Mrs Bs financial situations were considered when giving the advice. That might be the case, 
but the advice itself was essentially given to Mr B to transfer his pension. And ultimately my 
role is to decide whether that advice was suitable in the circumstances and in Mr Bs best 
interests.I think theres an element to Chris Binnss argument that it feels the advice was suitable 
because it allowed Mr B to meet his objectives. An advisors role isnt to simply facilitate a 
transaction that a customer might have thought they wanted  they need to make a 
recommendation thats in the customers best interests (which might mean telling them that 
theyre objectives are unrealistic, unachievable and/or not in their best interests). So advice 
that enables a customer to meet their objectives isnt necessarily or automatically suitable. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of 
the advice, but I think it provides useful context for my assessment of Chris Binnss actions.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
the provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability, and
the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. The regulator states in 
COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Chris Binns should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I think they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr B was nearly 46 at the time of the advice and he wanted to retire any time from 57. Ive 
outlined the critical yields detailed in the recommendation report above so I wont repeat 
them here. The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer 
to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 
2017, and was 3.9% per year for 11 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr B 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
6.46%, I think Mr B was most likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.I dont agree with Chris Binnss argument that the critical yields are largely irrelevant in this 
case given Mr Bs objectives (ie he wasnt looking for like-for-like benefits) and the reasoning 
for the recommendation. In my view, a significant consideration in all complaints of this 
nature is determining whether a consumer would be better off by transferring their pension. 
Chris Binns provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr B would have been able to 
meet his needs despite the high critical yields. It considered if Mr B remained in his DB 
scheme and if he transferred to the personal pension. Ive considered these but, as Chris 
Binns will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance. So I consider the 
discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in 
the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over a long period of 
time.
Chris Binns also referred to the hurdle rates in its suitability report. As this doesnt take 
account of any spouses pension or increases in payment its usually a lower figure than the 
critical yield. As Mr B was married and the DB scheme was due to increase whilst in 
payment, I think using the hurdle rate underplayed the growth needed to match the benefits 
available under the DB scheme.
I therefore conclude that the transfer wasnt financially viable as Mr B would most likely be 
worse off in retirement. This is sufficient in itself to conclude that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. But financial viability isnt the only consideration 
when giving transfer advice  there might be other considerations which mean a transfer 
was suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered Mr Bs other objectives 
below.
Flexibility and income needs
Chris Binns noted that Mr B would like to draw his pension flexibly to allow this to be dictated 
by his position at the time and to give him greater control over his tax position. I dont think 
Mr B required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I say this because 
Mr B had just received his redundancy payment and had used it to pay off debts and invest 
in a stocks and shares ISA.
The suitability report completed by Chris Binns does say that Mr B saw his transfer as an 
opportunity to make better use of his pension funds until he reached retirement age and that 
he would probably access a proportion re-pay his residential mortgage in full. At the time of 
advice, Mr B had approximately £223,000 outstanding on his mortgage. This was a re-
payment mortgage with a discounted interest rate. The end date for the mortgage was 
December 2035  when Mr B would be 63. So, even if paying off the mortgage was of great 
importance to Mr B, he could have waited and done this once he retired, and the outstanding 
amount was much lower. He would have been entitled to approximately £123,000 in tax-free 
cash from the DB scheme  which is more than what Chris Binns calculated the outstanding 
amount of the residential mortgage to be when Mr B turned 57. Mr B didnt therefore need to 
transfer to the personal pension to achieve this objective.
I also cant see evidence that Mr B had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Im satisfied Mr B could have met his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme, either at age 57 or 60. It was noted that Mr B would need an income of 
approximately £19,000 per year in retirement. Under the DB scheme Mr B was entitled to an 
annual income of £25,635 at 60 (or £18,563 if he took the tax free cash). If he retired early, 
at age 57, Mr B was entitled to approximately £21,041 per year (or £15,575 with the 
maximum tax-free cash). Mr B and his wife would also have their state pensions, potential rental income from the investment property and income from Mrs Bs separate DB scheme. 
Combined, the income would be sufficient throughout retirement and I cant see that there 
was any need for this to be variable.
Furthermore, Mr B was only 45 at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. Hed recently been made redundant and was looking 
for employment. So, his position was likely to change in the near future. As Mr B had at least 
10 years before he could think about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make 
any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr B to give up his guaranteed benefits then, when he didnt 
know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr B later had reason to transfer out of his 
DB scheme he could have done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Chris Binns also said that Mr B wanted to secure greater and more flexible death benefits for 
his wife and two children.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course, when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income for an individual in retirement  not to act as a life insurance for 
others to benefit from. And I dont think Chris Binns explored to what extent Mr B was 
prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. The 
DB scheme would have provided a spouses pension to Mrs B at two-thirds of the level of 
Mr Bs entitlement. In addition to this, a childrens pension may also have been payable at a 
rate of 25% of Mr Bs pension for each child up until they turn 18 (or 23 if they are in full-time 
education throughout this time). Mr B was married and had children and so these provisions 
provided by the DB scheme would have been useful to his wife and children if Mr B 
predeceased them. I dont think Chris Binns made the value of this benefit clear enough to 
Mr B. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And there 
may not have been a large sum left, particularly if Mr B lived a long life (I note that Chris 
Binns referred elsewhere to Mr Bs statistical life expectancy as 81). In any event, Chris 
Binns shouldnt have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his own security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Chris Binns should have instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that the 
suitability report mentioned life insurance policies with sums assured of £606,000. However, 
basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Bs pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Mr B wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family, which would be a lot 
less than this if he lived a long life (eg until 81) and/or if investment returns were poor. So, 
the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr B how much he would ideally like to leave to 
his family, and this could have been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, 
which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide.In any case, life assurance was discounted by Mr B because legacy planning is only one 
part of the overall strategy and rationale for transferring. It was noted that although life 
assurance would allow Mr B to meet his objective of leaving a legacy, it wouldnt allow him 
flexible access to his pension fund from age 57 and a potentially higher tax-free lump sum.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease in retirement benefits for Mr B. And I dont think this was 
of great importance to Mr B, because of the reasons he gave in discounting life assurance 
as an alternative. 
Early retirement
Another of the reasons Chris Binns used as a basis of its recommendation was so that Mr B 
could retire at age 57 without an actuarial reduction.
Many people, if asked, would likely say they want to retire early if they can. But this can only 
happen if they have the financial means to support themselves throughout retirement. Chris 
Binnss role was to establish whether retiring early was feasible for Mr B based on his 
circumstances and to suggest if it wasnt realistic. I can see it carried out cashflow modelling 
and this suggested it may have been possible for Mr B to retire early. However, Mr B could 
have retired early from the DB scheme. Chris Binns made various references to the actuarial 
reduction that would be made if Mr B chose to do this. I cant see this was appropriately 
explained to Mr B. Its correct that a reduction would be made. However, this is in recognition 
of the fact that benefits would likely be payable for a longer period of time. But the reality is 
that pension benefits from any scheme will be lower if a consumer chooses to retire early 
and receive benefits for a longer period. So I dont think this in itself would be a reason on 
which to recommend a transfer.
I must also consider that Mr Bs circumstances at the time were uncertain; hed recently 
been made redundant but was actively seeking new employment. He was only 45. The 
further away from retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish a realistic figure of 
what income will be needed in retirement. And in Mr Bs case, I think it would have been 
difficult to predict with a degree of certainty what his expected expenditure during retirement 
would be  and therefore what income he would need from age 57 onwards to cover this. 
With such a substantial time horizon until pension benefits could be accessed, it makes the 
case for a pension transfer  for the sake of achieving early retirement  more difficult to 
justify.
I acknowledge that it wouldnt be up to an advisor or indeed this service to tell Mr B that he 
shouldnt have the aim of, for example, retiring early. But that aside, it was nevertheless 
Chris Binnss responsibility to explain to Mr B why he didnt need to make any irreversible 
decision on relinquishing valuable safeguarded benefits at that time and that consideration of 
a pension transfer was a decision that could be delayed until his plans and expected 
expenditure in retirement could be determined with greater clarity than at that time.
Summary
The regulator has made it clear that advisors need to have understood a consumers 
investment objectives before making a recommendation. A request or preference made by 
the consumer for a particular solution doesnt in itself amount to an objective. Advisors are 
required to understand the consumers actual investment objectives so they can advise on a 
suitable course of action to meet them.
Chris Binns has just referred to generic stock motives when describing Mr Bs objectives. I 
havent seen any evidence to indicate these were truly of importance to Mr B to justify the guaranteed benefits being given up by transferring  particularly given the likelihood Mr B 
would be financially worse off as a result of transferring as discussed above. Im therefore 
not persuaded that Chris Binns has clearly demonstrated transferring was in Mr Bs best 
interests.
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But Chris 
Binns wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted  the advisors 
role was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. And by transferring he was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this.
  
So, I think Chris Binns should have advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme. And I think it 
should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits 
pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Chris Binns to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Chris Binns must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 60, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Chris Binns should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
otheir redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
oa straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum
if Mr B accepts Chris Binnss offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the calculation, 
even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, andtake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, given 
the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Chris Binns 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Chris Binns Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Chris Binns Wealth Management Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Chris Binns Wealth 
Management Limited. My recommendation wont be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman