DRN-1600524
The complaint
Mr Cs father complains on behalf of his son that Lexham Insurance Consultants Limited 
misled him into believing his sons scooter was insured under a motorcycle insurance policy 
sooner than it was. For the purpose of my decision Ill refer to the policyholder as Mr C1 and 
his father as Mr C2.
Mr C1 was stopped by police for driving while uninsured and he received six points on his 
driving licence.
What happened
Mr C2 arranged a motorcycle insurance policy with Lexham Insurance on 27 November 
2019. Lexham said that because there were no registration details for the scooter, the start 
date was set to a month later to give time for registration to take place. 
Lexham issued a Certificate of Insurance in any event with the chassis number of the 
scooter while it awaited the registration details from Mr C2.
On 23 December 2019 Mr C2 called to provide details of the registration. Lexham said it 
would issue an up to date Certificate of Insurance. It sent this on the same day by email.
On 24 December 2019 Mr C1 was stopped by police for driving while uninsured. Mr C2 told 
us the matter didnt go to court as his son accepted the penalty of six points on his driving 
licence. His scooter was impounded. Mr C1 had to pay release fees to collect the scooter. 
Mr C2 said he was led to believe by Lexham that Mr C1 was insured immediately after he 
called on 23 December 2019. He said the phrase good to go was used. 
Lexham said a change to the start date of the policy wasnt discussed on 23 December 
2019. And it issued a revised Certificate of Insurance to Mr C1 that morning which showed a 
start date of 27 December 2019. So Lexham said it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr C2 asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought Lexham had acted 
reasonably. 
Mr C2 didnt agree. He doesnt believe the outcome is fair as it was clear that their intention 
was to ensure Mr C1 was insured to drive. He believes we have completely supported the 
insurance company. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I do understand the considerable upset and distress Mr C1 and his family have 
gone through since the events of 24 December 2019. I believe Mr C1 may well have thought 
he was insured to drive his scooter. But after listening to the key call on 23 December 2019, 
I believe Mr C2 may have made an assumption that wasnt confirmed by Lexham  and the 
Certificate of Insurance it sent after the call supports this.
Mr C2 called to add the registration details for the scooter - which was now available - to the 
policy. The key part of the call went as follows:
Agent  So that has all been brought up to date and he can ride it based on 
everything obviously being correct on the policy. 
Mr C2  So the certificate we have got that bases from 27/12/19 to 26/12/next year  
thats all fine if we just work on that basis?
Agent  You will get a new one 
Mr C2 - oh well get a new one?.
Agent  yes you will get a new one only because the one hes currently got only 
shows the chassis number not the actual registration number. So what well do is get 
some new documents sent over to you today and theyll all be updated with the 
registration details.
So from this conversation I think Mr C2 was aware that the start date was 27 December 
2019, as he referred to the date on the existing Certificate of Insurance. I dont think the 
agent gave him the impression the start date would change. The only change she confirmed 
was the addition of the registration details. 
Lexham sent the revised Certificate of Insurance to the agreed email address on the 
morning of 23 December 2019. This showed a start date for cover of 27 December 2019. So 
I think Mr C2 had the opportunity to check the certificate then and contact Lexham if he 
wanted the start date to change. 
I appreciate that Mr C2 believes the outcome is unfair. And I dont doubt that the events of 
24 December 2019 and the impact and consequences have caused considerable worry and 
distress. But Ive taken an even handed approach to the information provided by Mr C2 and 
Lexham. Our role is to look at whether an insurer has acted reasonably and in line with the 
policy. In this case, I cant uphold the complaint because I dont think Lexham did anything 
wrong. 
My final decision
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C1 and Mr C2 were hoping for. But for the reasons 
Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman