DRN-3698179
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor failed to respond to 
correspondence sent by her and by her financial adviser (IFA).
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators two letters dated 17 August 2022. All parties have a copy of that 
letter, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on 
giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important 
I dont include any information that might lead to Ms G being identified. So for these reasons, 
I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Ms G has a mortgage with Topaz, which has reached the end of its term. Although Ms G has 
made reference to the way Topaz dealt with her request for a term extension in this current 
complaint, Im not considering that here. Thats because on 9 August 2022 I issued a final 
decision on that part of Ms Gs complaint.
In this complaint, Ms G says that Topaz failed to respond to a letter sent by her IFA on 
20 January 2022, and to her letter of 2 April 2022. In a letter dated 21 April 2022 Topaz 
explained it had replied to the IFAs letter on 2 February 2022. However, Topaz 
acknowledged that the underwriters should have asked for some further information at the 
time, and that thered been some delay in getting this. Topaz offered £50 compensation for 
the delay in asking for this.
Topaz also accepted on 20 June 2022 that its letter of 21 April 2022 hadnt answered all 
Ms Gs concerns about her mortgage. Topaz offered an additional £50 compensation and 
arranged for the information to be sent to Ms G, which it was on 22 June 2022.
Dissatisfied with Topazs response, Ms G referred her complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened, and was satisfied that the compensation offered 
by Topaz was fair and reasonable. He didnt think Ms G had been disadvantaged by Topazs 
actions.
Ms G disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to issue a final decision. 
Ms G said shed not received any correspondence from Topaz.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a final decision on 9 August 2022 on Ms Gs previous complaint about Topazs 
consideration of her request for a term extension. I will therefore make no further reference 
to that issue here.
Ive reviewed the correspondence on file and Im satisfied that it has been correctly 
addressed. Whilst its possible that one letter might go astray, Im not persuaded that several 
letters, correctly addressed and with the right postcode, would not have been delivered by 
Royal Mail. 
Topaz has acknowledged it made some customer service errors by not asking for further 
information in February 2022, and in not replying fully to Ms Gs concerns in April 2022. I 
think the compensation offered of £100 in total for this is fair and reasonable. Looking at the 
history of the complaint, Im not persuaded that Ms G has been disadvantaged in relation to 
her negotiations with Topaz about repayment of her outstanding mortgage by not having this 
information.
Therefore, taking into account all the circumstances, Im not persuaded Topaz should do 
anything further in relation to this complaint. I leave it up to Ms G to decide if she wants to 
accept the £100 already offered by Topaz in full and final settlement of this complaint.
I would also reiterate the comments I made in my final decision of 9 August 2022. Whilst I 
hope Ms G is able to reach a solution with Topaz over repayment of her mortgage, if she 
isnt able to do so, Topaz will be entitled to pursue recovery of the outstanding debt through 
the courts. However, if Ms G were to bring another complaint to us about the mortgage, 
Topaz isnt under any obligation to put legal action on hold, and we dont have any power to 
order Topaz to do so. It is important, therefore, for Ms G to explore other options such as an 
equity release lifetime mortgage so that she can repay this mortgage to Topaz, which is now 
several years overdue. Ms G should speak to her IFA about her options.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman