Complaint
Mrs H, on behalf of the estate of Mrs C, says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs C a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about the sale of PPI policy. The policy provided cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H, on behalf of the estate of Mrs C, 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. 
Theres limited information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mrs C, which isnt 
unusual given the sale took place many years ago. As a result, Bank of Scotland hasnt been 
able to provide copies of the actual paperwork from the time of sale. Bank of Scotland also 
hasnt been able to tell us how or when exactly the PPI was sold. So, Ive based my findings 
on the information I do have and what I think is most likely to have happened at the time of 
sale. 
Bank of Scotland says its unlikely the PPI was taken out at the same time as the mortgage. 
It thinks the PPI was sold around April 1993, which is when Mrs C first started paying for the 
policy. In support of this, its provided us with some screenshots from its internal system, 
showing that the first premium was paid in April 1993. Based on what Ive seen, I think its 
more likely than not that the PPI was sold around April 1993.
Bank of Scotland says that Mrs C would have been given a choice about the PPI and it 
would have gained her consent before adding it to her mortgage. Due to the time that has 
passed and the lack of information I have about this sale, there isnt anything to say whether 
or not Bank of Scotland gave Mrs C a choice about the PPI. Businesses arent required to 
keep information indefinitely and so it would be unfair to say that Bank of Scotland wouldnt 
have given Mrs C a choice or gained her consent, just because it doesnt have the 
paperwork. I cant assume something went wrong when there isnt any persuasive evidence 
that it did. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint on this basis.
DRN-1057954Bank of Scotland says it doesnt know whether it recommended the PPI to Mrs C. So, in the 
interest of fairness, its held itself to the higher standard and assumed that it did recommend 
the PPI. Having reviewed the information provided about Mrs Cs circumstances around the 
time of sale, the policy seems to have been right for her. Mrs C was eligible for cover and I 
cant see that she would have been affected by any of things the policy didnt cover  such 
as pre-existing medical conditions.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mrs H, on behalf of the estate of Mrs C, has told us that Mrs C was employed at the time of 
sale and would have been entitled to some work benefits from her employer. Shes also told 
us that Mrs C could have relied on her husbands income to help with the mortgage 
repayments.
While I accept that Mrs C would have received some sick pay from her employer if she was 
too unwell to work, I dont think this would have meant the PPI wasnt right for her. In the 
event of a successful claim, the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs C 
would have received from her employer and potentially paid out for longer  up to 12 
months.
Ive also thought about what Mrs H has said about the fact that Mrs C could have relied on 
her husbands income to help her with her repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that 
the PPI wasnt useful for her. While Mrs Cs husband would want to help, his financial 
situation could change and so his help couldnt always be relied on.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mrs C, Bank of Scotland also had to 
give her clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Bank of Scotland 
didnt give her all the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear 
as it should have been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have stopped Mrs C from taking it out.
So overall, I think Bank of Scotlands recommendation was suitable and I dont think that any 
better information would have put Mrs C off from taking out the policy.
It follows that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
Based on everything Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs C, to accept or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman