DRN-3799297
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Credit Card) has 
refused to refund two payments he made using his credit card, after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Towards the end of March 2021, Mr C received an email from his boss asking him to buy 
£1,000 worth of gift cards for a client. Unfortunately for Mr C, the email had actually come 
from a fraudster.
Mr C initially tried to buy the gift cards online, but was unsuccessful due the high value of the 
transaction. At the fraudsters suggestion, he then tried and managed to make the purchase 
in a supermarket. He shared the gift card codes with the fraudster and then complied with a 
further request to buy another £1,000 worth of gift cards. He also spent £3 on some food.
Mr C became suspicious when he received a further request to buy gift cards and called a 
work colleague  previous attempts to contact his boss by phone had been unsuccessful. 
The employee told him that several members of staff had received similar emails and Mr C 
realised hed fallen victim to a scam. 
Mr C reported the scam to Tesco, seeking to recoup the £2,000 hed lost to the fraudster. 
But Tesco refused to refund the money even after our investigator recommended it do so. 
So the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Mr C authorised both payments. So, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr C is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. But the matter doesnt end there.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Tesco should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
Ive reviewed the activity which took place on Mr Cs credit card in the months leading up to 
the scam and I cant see any comparable activity. Tescos records also show Mr Cs attempt 
to make three purchases via two popular online stores less than an hour before the 
supermarket purchase, which were all declined. Tesco says it has more stringent fraud 
checks for online purchases compared to in person purchases (which are verified by the 
credit card chip and PIN) like the ones Mr C was subsequently allowed to make in the 
supermarket. I take its point, but when the activity on the day in question is looked at as a 
whole, I think the supermarket purchases stand out as being remarkable and I think they 
should have prompted Tesco to intervene.
Had Tesco intervened when Mr C attempted the first £1,000 purchase Ive seen nothing to 
suggest he wouldnt have been entirely honest about why he was spending this money. I say 
that, not least, because the scammer hadnt told him to lie if anyone questioned him about 
what he was doing. Im also conscious that this is a relatively well-known scam, so I think 
Tesco would have been able to quickly identify what he was doing and prevented any 
losses.
Ive also thought carefully about Mr Cs role in what happened. He tells us hed only been 
working for the company for a few months which, at that time, was pushing hard to increase 
its client base. He was worried about not complying with the request and had bought, and 
been reimbursed for, smaller client gifts in the past. He read the email on his phone as he 
was attending a hospital appointment when it arrived and it appears to come from his boss  
he couldnt see the full, originating email address. He tried to phone and sent a text message 
to his boss, but there was no answer and he assumed this was because his boss was busy 
with the client. In the circumstances, I can understand why Mr C was keen not to carry out 
what appeared to be legitimate instructions coming from his boss.
I also accept that Tesco probably sent a text message to Mr C when the purchases he tried 
to make via the second online retailer were declined. I havent seen the exact wording of the 
message, but Tesco suggests it merely asked Mr C to confirm if it was he who was making 
the payment. Mr C says he didnt see the text and Im willing to accept that because, if he 
had, I see no reason why he wouldnt have replied because this would have enabled him to 
complete the online purchase, rather than having to visit the supermarket. In any event, 
given what Tesco say this text said, I dont think it would have alerted Mr C to the possibility 
he was being scammed.
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr C was, or ought to have been, familiar with this type of 
scam. So, while I accept that the requests were somewhat unusual I dont think Mr C acted 
negligently by failing to recognise that he was falling victim to a scam.
Overall, I dont think Tesco acted fairly by refusing to refund the two disputed transactions 
and it should settle the complaint in the way Ive outlined below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
(trading as Tesco Credit Card) to:
Refund £2,000 to Mr Cs account.Rework the account as if the two disputed transactions had never taken place.
If the above results in a credit balance, pay 8% simple interest per year on that credit 
balance from the date it would have been created had the refunded transactions not 
taken place, to the date of settlement.
If Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Credit Card) considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman