DRN-3859716
The complaint
Ms S complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt manage her 
credit card account as it should have.
What happened
The details of this complaint were well known to both parties, so rather than repeat them, I
focussed on the reasons for my decision. I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ms S had a personal credit card account with AESEL. She was also associated with 
a business charge card account, which was for her limited company, which Ill call 
V. A lot has happened across the two accounts. In this decision Ive only 
considered Ms S personal credit card account. And Ive only considered what 
happened in 2020 and early 2021.
In 2020 Ms S income was impacted by the pandemic. She thought she was in a
Covid-related payment deferral from July 2020, so she stopped making payments. 
However, she wasnt in a payment deferral so missed payments were reported to the 
credit reference agencies (CRAs). AESEL has since accepted it hadnt set up the 
deferral properly.
The deferral period, had it been set up properly, would have ended in September 
2020. This means, in the absence of a request for further support, minimum 
payments would have been required from October 2020 onwards. I can see from 
Ms S statements this isnt what happened. And this led to further missed payments 
being reported to the CRAs.
Clearly things didnt go well between July and December 2020, when the account 
was brought up to date. I find there was confusion between the parties about what 
had been agreed and why, and I find much of that stemmed from the two accounts 
(Ms S and Vs) being discussed in parallel. AESEL has removed all the missed 
payments from Ms S credit file, apologised and paid her £125 compensation (in 
total) in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she was caused. I find this fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Im aware Ms S is of the opinion the missed payments on her credit file impacted V, 
in that she says they prevented V from securing funding. Im not persuaded, based 
on the evidence available to me, the missed payments were solely a result of 
AESELs actions, or that the missed payments were solely  or predominantly  the 
reason V was declined credit. But even if I were, under our rules I can only make an 
award to the eligible complainant. Here, the eligible complaint is Ms S. Vs alleged 
loss  given its a limited company  isnt her loss (at least not directly). It follows I 
wont be requiring AESEL to compensate Ms S for any alleged financial loss.
Ms S was sent a final demand and notice of termination on 25 December 2020. It 
said the account had been terminated with immediate effect, the full outstanding 
balance (about £30,000) needed to be paid, and the account may be passed to a 
debt collection agency and registered as defaulted with the CRAs.
AESEL says it decided to close Ms S personal account because of her association 
with Vs account, which wasnt up to date. It says this is standard practice. I consider 
AESELs decision here reasonable given it would be unusual to allow spending on 
one account when another linked account is in arrears.
I find AESEL didnt do enough to explain to Ms S what it was doing and why. Ms S 
personal account was up to date in December 2020. Then, at Christmas, out of the 
blue, she was told she needed to pay a significant balance straightaway and there 
might be consequences if she didnt. This caused Ms S a great deal of worry. Then a 
short time later, the account was passed to a debt collection agency, which Ms S 
found distressing. As I understand it, at no point did AESEL properly explain to Ms S 
why any of this was happening.
AESEL didnt default the account and Ms S did later repay what she owed in full. So, 
matters have somewhat crystallised. But I consider Ms S was caused unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience by not being told what was happening and why. Im 
inclined to require AESEL to pay Ms S a further £250 compensation in recognition of 
the impact this had on her.
AESEL didnt respond to my provisional decision with any further information. Ms S 
responded to say, in summary, that she didnt agree Vs alleged loss was a separate matter 
and didnt consider £250 compensation was enough given what shes been through. She 
also said AESEL was pursuing her personally for Vs debt, for which she expects me to 
award her damages.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S, as the owner and director of V, is understandably concerned about its welfare. But this 
complaint is about Ms S personal credit card account. For the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I cant fairly, and nor do our rules allow me to, make an award for Vs 
alleged losses. And I remain of the opinion, also for the reasons set out in provisional 
decision, that £250 is fair compensation.
While I accept Ms S is concerned about being asked to pay Vs debt, that concern stems 
from matters relating to the business charge card account, not her personal credit card 
account. It is therefore a separate matter, and it is being considered as a separate 
complaint. It follows it isnt something I can  or should  consider as part of this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) to 
pay Ms S a further £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman