DRN-3657020
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how NewDay Ltd trading as Laura Ashley (NewDay) handled his 
request for help to recover money following the cancellation of flights. 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr H booked flights for his wife to travel to Spain. He arranged them direct 
through the airline, who Ill refer to as B. The flights were scheduled for May 2020, and he 
paid a total of £161.68 using his NewDay credit card. 
Unfortunately, due to the COVID-19 pandemic the flights were cancelled by B. Mr H was 
given the opportunity to rebook them, which he did in April 2020, for his wife to fly on 
11 September 2020, returning on 15 September 2020. He paid an additional £46 to accept 
the new flights using the same card. However, in July 2020 B emailed Mr H to say that the 
return flight had been moved to the afternoon of 16 September 2020. Within the email from 
B, it explained that Mr H had three options  he could accept the time change, arrange a free 
move of the flight time, or take a full refund for what he had paid. 
Mr H couldnt accept the change and he requested a full refund. During the next month he 
tried to get in touch with B across several platforms, but he didnt receive his refund. 
Mr H got in touch with NewDay in August 2020 and asked them to help him recover his 
money. NewDay asked him to complete the online declaration form and provide evidence, 
which Mr H did. NewDay then raised two chargebacks for the two amounts he had paid for 
the flights and credited Mr Hs account with the two amounts. 
B defended the chargebacks, stating that they operated a no-refund policy. NewDay 
accepted this defence and decided not to progress the chargebacks any further. The credits 
applied to Mr Hs account in August 2020 were re-debited in October and November 2020 
when the chargeback defences were received. 
Unhappy with this, Mr H raised a complaint with NewDay. He said NewDay should have 
asked him for additional information to support his claim, rather than accepting Bs 
comments. He said NewDays adviser had told him he should have provided everything he 
had when he initially raised the chargebacks. NewDay issued their final response letter and 
didnt uphold the complaint. They said Mr H should have provided all the evidence he 
wanted to be taken into account from the outset, and their online portal for logging claims 
explained that. They said that it also made clear they wouldnt be chasing any information 
from Mr H, so he should have been aware to include everything he wanted considered. 
NewDay did apologise for some of the service Mr H had received, regarding not receiving a 
call back within 48 hours as hed been led to expect. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it. He said he felt Mr H 
had provided sufficient information when he raised his chargeback claims initially to allow 
NewDay to represent them against B. He also referred to Bs terms and conditions, which 
confirmed a full refund can be claimed if the timing of the departure is changed by at least 
five hours and the new departure time isnt acceptable. Our investigator said that B had only 
provided a generic response and hadnt referred to their terms and conditions, and if 
NewDay had represented the chargeback claims, our investigator was confident they would 
have more than likely been successful, and Mr H would have received his refund. He asked 
NewDay to refund Mr H the total amount of £207.67, along with 8% simple interest from 
1 February 2021 until the date the refund amount was settled. 
Our investigator also explained that Mr H couldnt raise a claim under Section 75 (S75) of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) as the relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
wasnt in place. Although Mr H had paid for the flights, they were for his wife to use and, as 
she is the contracting party to B, there isnt a valid claim under S75.
NewDay didnt accept our investigators opinion. They maintained that Mr H had not 
provided enough evidence to support his claims when he raised them, and that lack of 
evidence didnt allow them to challenge Bs defence. They appreciated that Mr H had 
provided additional evidence to our service in support of his claims but said that couldnt now 
be taken into consideration as the chargebacks couldnt be raised again. NewDay said they 
were deciding on whether they had enough information at the time the chargeback claims 
were submitted, not whether Mr H had now supplied enough information to support his 
claims. 
As NewDay didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods or 
services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rule and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for NewDay to ask for a payment Mr H made to 
be refunded. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration.
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under S75 of the CCA. S75 says that in certain 
circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the 
credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of 
goods or services. 
In Mr Hs case, NewDay did raise the chargeback claims for him based on the information he 
had provided at the time. Both chargeback claims were defended by B. At this point, I think 
NewDay should have done more to help Mr H. Ill explain why.Our investigator has said that he thinks NewDay had enough information from the outset to 
continue to progress the chargeback claims once theyd been defended by B. Im not sure I 
agree with that  I do think Mr H could have supplied more information at the time of raising 
his chargeback claims, as its clear from the evidence he has supplied to our service that he 
had more information to share that showed B had confirmed he was entitled to a full refund if 
the suggested flight change wasnt acceptable to him.
However, I dont think the defence to the chargebacks from B are particularly strong. And 
they dont accurately explain the circumstances that have led to Mr H raising the 
chargebacks. B has said that their terms and conditions state they operate a no-refund 
policy, and that Mrs H was listed as a no-show for the flights, meaning the flight went ahead 
without her, and no refund was due as a result. But that isnt what happened, and Im 
satisfied Bs defence was generic enough to expect NewDay to make some further enquiries 
with Mr H about the circumstances that led to his wife not being able to accept the amended 
flight. There was conflicting information in that provided by Mr H and that supplied by B in 
their defence, and I would expect NewDay to explore those anomalies in more detail before 
deciding whether to proceed with representment of the chargeback claims. Mr H had 
provided evidence that it was B that had made the changes to the flight, along with 
confirmation that those changes werent acceptable  which was in direct contrast to the 
reasoning used by B in their defence to NewDay.
Had NewDay reached out to Mr H and asked him to provide a response to Bs defence, Im 
satisfied that he would have been able to provide additional evidence that confirmed B had 
agreed to a refund. I say this because he has provided this evidence to our service, and its 
dated from the time he was asking B to refund him because the change of time for the 
returning flight wasnt acceptable. Im also satisfied that, had NewDay asked Mr H for 
anything else to support his claims, and once theyd reviewed what he would have been able 
to provide, they would have been able to represent the chargebacks to B, and I think they 
would have more than likely succeeded at that stage. It was clear B had agreed that Mr H 
could ask for a refund and it would have been difficult for them to defend if further 
representations had been made. 
The time limit for NewDay to continue to represent the chargeback claims has now expired. 
So, my decision is that NewDay must refund Mr H the total amount of £207.67. Im also 
asking them to pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date Mr Hs account was 
re-debited in November 2020 to the date this amount is settled, to reflect the fact hes been 
out of pocket for some time. 
As Im satisfied NewDay should have done more to contest the chargeback claims for Mr H 
in this case, I havent considered S75 in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Laura Ashley 
must:
Refund Mr H the total amount of £207.67.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date they re-debited his account in 
November 2020 until the date this amount is settled.*
*If NewDay Ltd trading as Laura Ashley consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr H how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman