DRN-2057583
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that a misleading notification from Starling bank limited told him a
transaction had gone through, so he took out the rest of his money. The transaction hadnt
gone through, and when it was paid later, he went into unauthorised overdraft.
What happened
Mr W made a payment for £40. He received a notification to say the payment had been
made. Mr W had £150 left, so he drew that out. But the payment for £40 didnt leave his
account until a few days later. Then he was £38 overdrawn.
Mr W lives on a modest income, which was paid into this account. He initially asked if
Starling could spread the repayment of the overdrawn amount over two months, so it wasnt
all taken from the next payment into his account. Starling said it was happy for Mr W to pay
the money back over two months, but it didnt have the facility to do that. It couldnt stop any
payment into the account being used to repay the debt. So it advised Mr W to redirect his
next payment elsewhere.
Mr W became frustrated as this complaint progressed, and then said he wasnt planning to
pay this money back. He said Starling has told him hell be charged for the overdraft, and it
had only offered to freeze charges for 30 days while it looked into the complaint. It had
offered £20 as a goodwill gesture, but Mr W said that wasnt enough.
Mr W wanted the overdraft written off, and £50 to £100 as compensation. He said hed made
a subject access request, but he didnt think Starling had sent him everything. And he said
that his complaint response letter from Starling was full of grammatical errors and spelling
mistakes too. So he didnt think any of this had been handled well by Starling.
Our investigator didnt think that Starling had failed to respond to Mr Ws subject access
request, and suggested that the Information Commissioners Office might be better placed to
deal with any further query Mr W had about this.
He said that Starling wasnt in a position to be able to redirect Mr Ws payment to another
account for him. Mr W has now redirected that money himself.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that if Starling hadnt
notified Mr W that this payment had been made, then Mr W wouldnt have taken all of the
remaining money out of his account, and then wouldnt have gone into overdraft when this
same payment was taken a few days later.
Our investigator didnt think that Starling shouldve stopped this payment. It had been
authorised by Mr W. But he didnt think Starlings offer of £20 to make up for what had gone
wrong was enough. He said it should pay Mr W £50, remove any negative marks on his
credit file, freeze interest on the debt and allow Mr W to repay it over time.
Starling replied, to say that the payment of £40 which didnt clear and the cash withdrawal
were on the same day. But it said Mr W couldve checked his balance on the app. And if hed
done so, the payment reversal could be seen there. As he took the money out a couple of
hours after that reversal, Starling said it wouldnt increase compensation for Mr W.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Because he and Starling didnt agree, the case was
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then:
 Starling has accepted that it sent Mr W an alert to tell him that the payment hed 
made for £40 had been taken. It says that he couldve checked the app to confirm his 
balance, and if hed done that, he wouldve realised that this payment hadnt in fact 
gone through.
I understand why Starling would say that. But I still think its not unreasonable for Mr 
W to rely on the alerts he was sent by his bank, which told him a payment he was 
expecting had been made. There was no further alert to tell him that the payment 
hadnt actually gone. So I think it was reasonable for Mr W to assume he could take 
the remaining funds in his account out. Like our investigator, I think this mistaken 
alert sent by Starling is the reason why Mr W ended up with an unauthorised 
overdraft.
If Starling has charged Mr W any interest or fees for this overdraft, I think it should 
refund those onto his account. And if it has placed negative markers on his credit file, 
then I think those markers should be removed.
Ive listened to a number of calls that Mr W had with Starling bank. I can hear that he 
was initially keen to resolve this issue, but wasnt able to pay all of the money back at 
once. He wanted to resolve this quickly, which is also reasonable as he would be 
concerned about charges. He became frustrated as he wasnt able to resolve this 
quickly.
Starling was happy to take the money back in two instalments, but it doesnt seem to 
have offered any way of doing this. It wasnt able to ensure that Mr W would still have 
access to most of his funds when his next payment came into the account. And that 
meant Mr W had to go to considerable trouble, to redirect the payment.
I dont think Starling had to redirect this payment for Mr W. But Starling hasnt 
explained why there was nothing else it could do to help Mr W. Im not sure why it 
wasnt possible, for instance, to put a short-term agreed overdraft of £20 on Mr Ws 
account, which would give him a little longer to pay the full amount back.
Mr W has now said to Starling a number of times that he isnt prepared to pay this 
money back.
I think the initial problem was caused by Starling. But Mr W has spent the money he 
took out, and I dont think Starling just has to write off the debt.
Mr W wanted any compensation paid by Starling to go into a different account. 
Because Mr W has said he isnt prepared to pay the money back, I think that if I ask 
Starling to make a payment of compensation into a separate account, then the matter 
may not actually be resolved. And Id like to bring this issue to a close for both 
parties.So this is what I propose. I dont think Starlings offer of £20, or our investigators 
suggestion of £50, would provide quite enough compensation for whats gone wrong 
in this case. I think Starling should pay Mr W £100 in compensation. But Ill direct that 
Starling pay that money into Mr Ws account. That will clear his existing debt, and 
allow him to take the rest of the compensation money out. He can then close this 
account if he no longer wishes to deal with Starling.
Mr W has also expressed concerns that Starling hasnt sent all the documentation 
that hes entitled to under his subject access request. Hes also said that this is a 
separate issue for him. I think, as our investigator suggested, that if Mr W wants to 
take this further, he could take this up with the Information Commissioners Office, 
who are better placed than our service to investigate data protection concerns.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr W accepted my decision. Starling also accepted it, but said that it had paid the amount of 
£20 that I referred to as an offer. So it wanted to know whether it had to pay £80 now, to 
make a total of £100. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling has sent us evidence to show that it has already paid Mr W £20 in compensation for 
this complaint. My provisional decision was that Starling had to pay a total of £100 to provide 
a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So Ill set out here that Starling can count 
towards this total the £20 it has already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that Starling Bank Limited must refund any interest or fees it has charged 
for Mr Ws unauthorised overdraft. If it has placed negative markers on his credit file as a 
result of this unauthorised overdraft, then it must remove those markers. And finally Starling 
Bank Limited must pay a total of £100 into Mr Ws Starling account. Starling can count 
towards that total the amount of £20 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman