DRN-2400828
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled and settled 
a claim he made under his landlord insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr H owns a tenanted property and holds a landlord insurance policy, which is underwritten 
by RSA. The policy that is relevant to this complaint commenced on 8 August 2017, although 
Mr H held insurance with RSA before that date.
On 31 July 2018 Mr H said part of the guttering of his property collapsed after it was 
damaged by a storm. He reported what had happened to RSA. It instructed a buildings 
inspector, which Ill refer to as B, to undertake an inspection of the damage. 
B attended Mr Hs property on 9 August 2018 and, after inspecting the building exterior, it 
confirmed that a section of the guttering had come away from the property. But it told RSA 
the guttering had no brackets to support them as theyd been screwed into the property to 
secure them.
B didnt think the damage was a direct result of a one-off storm. Instead it attributed its cause 
to wear and tear, which had happened as a result of the fittings that hold the gutter having 
failed.  
RSA told Mr H wear and tear wasnt covered by his policy and it declined his claim on this 
basis. It also told Mr H there was no evidence of a storm at around the time of the damage 
he reported or during the month beforehand. 
But Mr H didnt agree with RSAs decision and complained. He said B hadnt properly 
inspected his roof  it had only taken photographs of the soffits and made no effort to 
examine their condition. So, he didnt think Bs opinion that the fixings had failed due to wear 
and tear was reliable or correct.
Mr H told RSA hed maintained the property exterior over the years. And he wanted to 
provide statements from his tenants whod witnessed what had happened. He also told RSA 
that the contractor whod replaced his guttering had confirmed that the condition of the 
guttering and its fixings were sound. But RSA said the photographs it had seen were clear 
and showed damage consistent with wear and tear. So, it didnt think it had made an error in 
declining Mr Hs claim.  
Being dissatisfied with how RSA had settled his claim and proposed to resolve his complaint 
he referred it to our service. Our investigator looked into what happened, but they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They thought RSA had acted fairly in declining to 
cover Mr Hs claim for damage as they werent persuaded the damage hed reported had 
been caused by a one-off identifiable storm event. And they thought it had been, most likely, 
caused by wear and tear. But Mr H didnt accept our investigators view of his complaint. 
Because of this, Ive been asked to determine this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mr H has gone to some 
trouble to provide our service with some very detailed submissions in response to our 
investigators view of his complaint. Its clear he feels very strongly that his claim should be 
paid. I want to assure him that Ive read everything hes sent us. I hope hell understand if I 
dont address every comment hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider is key to the complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake, or treated Mr H unfairly, in how it 
decided to resolve the claim he made for damage to his property  such that it needs to now 
put things right. In reaching a decision about this Ive considered everything Mr H and RSA 
have said, Bs cause of damage opinion and photographs our service has been sent.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr Hs property at the end of July 2018. But 
theres disagreement between him, RSA and its appointed agent about the cause of the 
damage and the correct outcome of this claim. 
Mr H would like RSA to cover the damage to his roof because he feels it was caused by 
adverse weather. His policy with RSA provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils 
that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for 
a claim to be accepted under this peril Mr H must show there was an identifiable storm 
around the time of the damage. And he must then show that the storm alone was the cause 
of the damage.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr Hs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind. 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question Ive looked to see if Mr Hs policy defines the word storm. 
But I can see that it doesnt. I can see that Mr H has said he wants our service to tell RSA to 
include a definition within its policy booklet. But, as our investigator has explained, were not 
the regulator. So, we cant tell an insurer to change its policy booklet or to adopt the changes 
that Mr H would like to see.
I should add that it isnt unusual for an insurer not to include a storm definition in its policy 
booklet. This service sees many complaints where this is the case. And, in these 
circumstances, we take the view that a storm generally involves violent winds, usually 
accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
We generally consider wind speeds of 47 mph or above to be consistent with a storm. I can 
see that RSA told Mr H it would also consider this wind speed to be a storm. It also 
explained that for it to consider rainfall to be a storm it would have to exceed 16 mm per 
hour. Again, this is consistent with our approach in complaints involving storms.As I set out in the background to this complaint, Mr H said his guttering was damaged on 31 
July 2018. But I can see hes also referred to very intense storms that were prevalent during 
the weekend of 13-15 July 2018. Hes offered to provide witness statements from his tenants 
about the weather at the time the damage occurred. But, for the reasons our investigator has 
already explained, Im not persuaded such evidence would assist in my assessment of this 
complaint.
Ive reviewed weather records to see what it was like in Mr Hs locality at around the time of 
the damage and, given what he said about storms in mid July, Ive also considered weather 
recorded during the month before he reported his claim. 
I note Mr H has argued that the weather conditions arent representative because the 
weather station from which the reports are obtained isnt close enough to his property. So, it 
doesnt record localised storms. But Mr H hasnt provided any cogent and reliable evidence 
of weather nearer to his property that I can consider. So, Ill be relying on the weather 
records RSA used here, which Im satisfied are accurate. 
While Ive taken into account what Mr H told our service about the weather at the time the 
damage occurred, the highest wind speed Ive seen recorded was 39 mph. This was on 28 
July 2018. I should add that the wind speed recorded at the time Mr H says his guttering was 
damaged was 21 mph. The highest amount of rainfall recorded was 5.6 mm per hour, which 
was on 28 July 2018. It was only 4.6 mm per hour on 31 July 2018.
Based on the weather recorded at around the time the damage occurred, and in the month 
prior to that, Im not satisfied there was a storm. I therefore cant fairly find that the guttering 
damage that Mr H reported to RSA was storm related. And, as Im not persuaded that a 
storm occurred around the time of the damage, I cant fairly direct RSA to pay Mr Hs claim 
for storm damage.
As Ive been unable to answer question one affirmatively, I dont need to go on to address 
questions two or three as outlined above. 
While Mr Hs policy covers damage caused by certain events, wear and tear, or damage that 
happens gradually, arent one of those events. Theyre specifically excluded, which is in 
common with most home insurance policies. This is because insurance is intended to cover 
the unforeseen, and something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
If an insurer wishes to decline a claim on the basis of wear and tear it has to show that this is 
how the damage happened. In this case RSA relies on Bs opinion of how the damage was 
caused. So, Ive carefully studied the information B provided RSA.
I dont think RSA acted unfairly in relying on Bs expertise in assessing Mr Hs claim for 
damage. B is a recognised organisation that regularly assesses property damage on behalf 
of insurers. And our service thinks its right for an insurer to instruct companies with 
expertise to inspect a customers property to assist it in determining the cause of damage. 
Mr H raised concerns about the adequacy of Bs inspection. But, based on the photographs 
Ive seen, Im satisfied B undertook an appropriate inspection of Mr Hs roof. And I think the 
photographs it took support its opinion on the cause of damage. They show the guttering is 
in a poor condition and had been deteriorating over a period of time. 
Mr H has said the contractor who repaired his guttering disagreed with Bs opinion on the 
cause of damage. Ive considered the information Mr H provided RSA about his discussion 
with his contractor. And Ive also considered what his contractor told RSA about what he thought may have caused the damage when it contacted him directly. Im not persuaded any 
of this evidence makes Bs opinion incorrect or unreliable. 
In the overall circumstances, I think RSA had enough evidence to determine that the cause 
of damage here was wear and tear. I cant therefore fairly find it made an error in attributing 
the damage to Mr Hs guttering to be due to wear and tear.
I know Mr H will disagree with me, but I think its, most likely, that the adverse weather he 
experienced in July 2018 exposed the underlying defects with his guttering. Im not 
persuaded it was the cause of it. 
Finally, Mr H raised concerns about how RSA progressed his claim. But I havent seen any 
unnecessary delays in how RSA assessed Mr Hs claim. And Im persuaded it informed him 
it was repudiating his claim as soon as it was able to make that decision. I recognise that Mr 
H was unhappy with some of the responses he received from RSA about his claim. But I can 
see it provided him with detailed explanations of why, and how, it had reached its declinature 
decision. I therefore dont think its done anything wrong.
I appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. Hes already repaired his 
guttering and incurred cost and stress in doing so. But, for the reasons outlined, Im satisfied 
that RSA acted fairly in determining the cause of the guttering damage and in declining this 
claim. So, I cant ask it to reimburse Mr H for the cost of his repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman