DRN-3028870
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card. Mr B alleged that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Lloydss subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
However, in this case, there simply isnt much information available, so Ive primarily thought 
about what is more likely to have happened.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Lloyds should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
Was Mr B given an option?
As Ive said, neither party seems entirely clear as to whats happened here. Mr B and his 
representative have been, in my view, somewhat unclear about his circumstances at the 
time of the sale or when it took place. For example, Mr B put forward 2006 as being the date 
he was sold this PPI, but Lloyds doesnt think this is right; it thinks it was much earlier. Mr B 
also said he was self-employed at the point of sale, but the job-related protections he said he 
had fit more accurately, in my view, someone who was an employee.
It seems Mr B is a long-standing Lloyds customer and Lloyds seems to think the PPI was 
sold as far back as 1980, when he first had a credit card. We asked Mr Bs representatives 
to clarify this and we were sent a reply describing his circumstances, such as his job type 
and job-related benefits, as of 1980. There was nothing in the reply suggesting Mr B doesnt 
agree with the revised thinking about when the sale took place, although clearly this places 
his recollections about what happened in a slightly different light. 
Perhaps not surprisingly, Lloyds has no paperwork showing the original sale documentation. 
I cant therefore say that Mr B was told for sure that the PPI was optional  but neither is 
there anything to say he wasnt told this either. I also note his original central complaint point 
was that he was self-employed and that such workers often had difficulties in making 
successful claims on some PPI policies. However, in 1980, it seems Mr B wasnt self-
employed, so the original allegation doesnt seem related.
Id like to place on record that I dont doubt Mr B genuinely feels now that he was mis-sold 
this cover. I also accept that these events relate to a long time ago. However, my general 
experience of these types of PPI sales is that consumers were usually asked to agree to PPI 
by being given some sort of yes/no choice. Theres virtually nothing to refer to in this case, 
with both parties seeming somewhat unclear, as Ive said, as to what really happened. But I 
think its more likely than not that Mr B was asked about PPI. And if it was added in 1980, he 
would have most likely had years of monthly statements showing that PPI existed. Ive seen 
no evidence of him asking what these payments were for or otherwise challenging them.
In short, theres no evidence suggesting the PPI was mis-sold in this context; I think he is 
more likely to have agreed to it and seen it was in place over many years.
For the same reasons, I cant say whether or not Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B as 
part of an advised sale, but if it did so, it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
In my view, the evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, he was probably eligible for 
the cover and he had only limited other means to fall back on in the event of something 
unexpected happening, such as losing his job or being unable to work. He said this when he 
re-submitted his 1980 circumstances. In this submission, Mr B said he would have no 
sickness protection with his job (and the job-related benefits he was originally said to enjoy 
in 2006, dont apply). Similarly, the back problems he said he had in 1990 are vaguely set 
out in his complaint. Again, I dont doubt his health may at points been of concern to Mr B, 
but 1990 is many years after the 1980 sale, and indeed even further in advance of his 
original thinking of the sale being in 2006..
So overall, noting that the PPI could have paid 10% of his existing credit card balance for up 
to a year if hed needed to claim, this would have been in addition to any other limited means 
he may have had. Ive seen nothing else that would have made claiming for back or mental 
problems especially onerous for Mr B in any event.
So I think the policy was probably suitable for him and recommending it to him probably 
wasnt unreasonable.
Its obviously possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been, but as Ive said, he chose to take it out so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. I therefore dont think theres any evidence Mr B would have declined the policy 
even if Lloyds could have done a better job at explaining things.
Mr Bs representative raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it says 
apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these 
policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant 
Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought about these and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. But these points 
dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipCredit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr B should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr B about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr B in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr B paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Mr B with the policy Ive concluded above he 
would still have taken out if Lloyds had done everything it should have done  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Bs 
complaint or make any award in favour of him for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman