DRN-3628119
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard), 
irresponsibly granted her a credit card she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mrs W entered into an agreement with Barclaycard to have access to credit 
by way of a credit card account. Mrs W was given an opening balance of £3,800. 
Mrs W says that Barclaycard didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened 
her credit card account. She says she was already struggling financially at the time.
At first Barclaycard didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Mrs Ws financial circumstances before granting her the credit card 
account. 
After our adjudicator looked into the complaint, Barclays reviewed the complaint again. 
Having done so, it found that it ought not to have approved Mrs Ws application and offered 
to compensate Mrs W from the date of the card opening and remove any negative data from 
her credit file. 
As Mrs W had some concerns about the offer, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Barclaycard has offered to refund all interest and charges from the opening of the account. 
This will have the effect of reducing the current outstanding balance. It will also remove any 
negative data relating to the account from Mrs Ws credit file. The account will then be 
closed, leaving a balance that Mrs will still need to pay. 
I have considered the terms of the offer. I can see that its in line with the redress we ask 
businesses to pay and reflects the particular circumstances of the account. As there is still 
money owing on the account, Mrs W wouldnt be due any interest. The position would be 
different if Mrs W had a credit balance. 
Generally speaking, this service does not ask businesses to write off remaining balances on 
accounts. When upholding a complaint, it is also usual for us to recommend that any interest 
and charges are used to pay off in whole or part any remaining balances on the relevant 
account. This is fair and reasonable given that the consumer has already had the benefit of 
the money they spent. 
It follows that I consider Barclaycards offer to be fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I would however expect Barclaycard to continue to act with appropriate forbearance in 
seeking to assist Mrs W in her efforts to find a fair and manageable way to pay back the 
balance that is still owing on  her account.
Putting things right  what Barclaycard needs to do
Rework Mrs Ws account to ensure that from its opening in or around 17 
January 2018 onwards interest is only charged on balances up to the total credit 
limit of £3,800 (being the opening credit limit) to reflect the fact that the credit 
should not have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also 
be removed; and
The resulting credit balance should be refunded and used to reduce the 
outstanding balance on the account.
Given that an outstanding balance will remain on the account once these 
adjustments have been made, Barclaycard should contact Mrs W to arrange an 
affordable repayment plan for the account. 
Barclaycard will also remove any adverse information relating to this account 
from Mrs Ws credit file.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman