DRN-3262274
The complaint
Mrs M complains about The Protection Specialist Limiteds (TPSL) handling of her claim for 
mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). She says they didnt deliver the service 
expected and the claim was only successful because of her own actions. Mrs M complains 
that, despite this, theyre chasing her for their fees. 
What happened
Mrs M instructed TPSL to look into PPI against Lender M. Lender M upheld the part of her 
complaint relating to undisclosed commission but not the part relating to mis-sale  so she 
asked TPSL to refer that part to our service. Mrs M says she needed to provide our service 
with further information, so she contacted TPSL to discuss this but the staff member was 
rude and unprofessional. Mrs M says our service upheld her complaint against Lender M 
and TPSL then issued her with an invoice for their fee. Mrs M says she was told by TPSL 
that Lender M had issued a settlement cheque, but later accepted this wasnt correct. Mrs M 
says she had to carry out a lot of the work herself and it was her personal effort which led to 
the successful complaint. Mrs M didnt feel TPSL provided her with the help and support she 
needed with the PPI mis-sale complaint, so she complained to TPSL.  
TPSL responded and, in relation to Mrs Ms concern about being chased for payment when 
she hadnt yet received her compensation from Lender M, they explained they have an 
expected timescale for when payment is usually made by Lender M. So, given that Mrs M 
hadnt at that point confirmed she hadnt received her payment, they chased her. 
In relation to Mrs Ms concern about receiving limited assistance from TPSL, they said when 
an adjudicator from our service didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint, TPSL said they shared this 
view with Mrs M and also discussed next steps with her. In relation to Mrs Ms complaint 
about a staff member being rude and unprofessional, TPSL said this was a 
misunderstanding on what Mrs M was asking advice on. They apologised this situation 
occurred and, as the staff member was no longer working for them, they werent able to 
provide her with feedback. They said they had asked managers in the team to give 
additional training to telephone based staff to avoid a situation like this reoccurring. 
TPSL also addressed Mrs Ms concern about them asking her to contact Lender M for an 
update. TPSL said it was Lender M who asked for Mrs M to contact them direct. And, in 
relation to Mrs Ms complaint about being provided incorrect information, they said this 
related to an issue involving a cheque payment, and while this information was found to not 
be accurate after Mrs M had spoken with Lender M, it was based on the information they 
had at the time. 
In relation to Mrs Ms concern that her complaint about the service wasnt escalated during a 
call in November 2020, TPSL apologised and agreed they hadnt met their own 
expectations. They confirmed theyd asked team managers to reiterate TPSLs complaints 
procedure to staff based on telephones to avoid a similar situation occurring.       
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs M. She thought TPSL had made errors and 
recommended they pay £100 compensation to Mrs M. TPSL agreed but Mrs M disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters.
 
TPSL didnt provide the service they said they would but are asking for their fee
My starting point is the terms and conditions. This says TPSLs services include investigation 
into whether a customer has a claim, making a claim on the customers behalf and all 
associated services, which includes any referral to our service. And, it says their fees are 
24% inclusive of VAT of any compensation awarded. 
The information provided by TPSL shows they submitted Mrs Ms complaint for mis-sold PPI 
to Lender M in August 2019. This was then followed up with a letter of complaint and a 
chaser asking for an update. Lender M responded and upheld the undisclosed commission 
part of the complaint but not the part about mis-sold PPI. TPSL then invoiced Mrs M for the 
part of the complaint which was successful and Mrs M paid their fee. Having informed Mrs M 
of Lender Ms decision, TPSL then wrote to Mrs M to say they feel Lender Ms response is 
unsatisfactory and theyre referring the complaint to our service. They asked Mrs M to 
confirm whether the content of Lender Ms final response letter seems consistent with her 
memory of the initial sale and if any information is inaccurate. They asked Mrs M if she had 
any additional information shed like to add. 
TPSL then submitted the complaint to our service and sent Mrs M a copy. TPSL then liaised 
with Mrs M and gathered further information requested by our service. An adjudicator at our 
service then issued a view not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. TPSL then sent the view to   
Mrs M and said its her decision on whether she would like to escalate this and they will act 
in line with her instructions. Mrs M then provided further information and TPSL then asked 
for an ombudsman to decide the complaint. The complaint was then upheld and Lender M 
wrote to TPSL with an offer of compensation. 
Taking this all into account, I think TPSL have carried out the service theyve agreed to, in 
line with the terms and conditions. The information shows they submitted the claim, gathered 
further information and referred Mrs Ms complaint to our service. And, given that this has led 
to a successful outcome, I dont think its unreasonable for TPSL to ask for their fee. 
I understand Mrs M feels her complaint was only successful because she took the matter 
into her own hands. Ive listened to a call between Mrs M and TPSL which followed our 
adjudicators view to not uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Lender M. During this call Mrs M 
asked TPSL their thoughts on how best to approach the complaint and the call handler says 
its for Mrs M to provide any relevant information to support her complaint. I note during the 
call Mrs M said she feels shes having to carry out analysis of the evidence and it should be 
TPSL who, with their experience, should be taking a more leading role. 
I do understand why Mrs M became frustrated at what she felt was TPSL not acting in her 
best interests. But, its not uncommon for firms acting for clients to rely on their client to 
provide the information relevant to their case as they will be better placed to know what their 
financial circumstances were at the point they were mis-sold PPI. And, the terms and 
conditions do say customers agree to provide any information TPSL request.  
I note Mrs M is concerned about the level of work carried out by TPSL and how this justifies 
their fee. I understand shes prepared to compromise and offer a lower percentage fee  and an amount she feels reflects the work theyve done and the service provided. TPSL charged 
a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, TPSLs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just because 
TPSLs fee might be higher than the value of the work theyve done for Mrs M, it doesnt 
make their fee unjustified. In addition to this, I havent seen any information which suggests 
the value of TPSLs work has been reduced so I dont think its unreasonable for them to ask 
for their full fee. 
Ive also listened to recordings of calls between TPSL and Lender M during which TPSL ask 
for an update on payment following our services decision to uphold the complaint. Lender M 
say Mrs M will need to contact them direct. Theres a further call where TPSL again ask for 
an update and say theyre looking at trying to get the cheque reissued and Lender M say 
Mrs M will need to get in touch with them to get that arranged. I understand TPSL then 
asked Mrs M to contact Lender M direct but I can see this was as a result of Lender Ms 
insistence that Mrs M contact them. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ms point that TPSLs terms and conditions say a customer shouldnt 
contact a lender direct. I can see the terms and conditions say a customer shouldnt have 
any direct contact with a lender without TPSLs agreement. I can understand why Mrs M is 
concerned that shes been asked to make contact with the lender direct but I cant say this 
was through TPSLs own choice. It was Lender M who insisted on this on two occasions, so I 
cant say TPSL had any other choice but to ask Mrs M to contact Lender M to find out what 
was happening with the payment.     
I can see Mrs M raises the point that TPSLs website refers to them guiding customers 
through the process and also their specialist in house team advising customers during the 
process. I acknowledge Mrs M feels this wasnt the service she received during a call in 
November 2020. I do understand why Mrs M feels this, and Ive considered the issues 
arising out of this phone call later in my decision but I dont believe this means the fee should 
be reduced. Rather, this should be reflected in the upset and frustration caused to Mrs M.  
I note Mrs M says the settlement of her complaint was in two parts. Shes satisfied with 
TPSLs handling of the undisclosed commission part of her complaint and feels they did 
what they contracted to do  and Mrs M paid their fee for this. I can understand why, when 
comparing the two parts of the complaint, Mrs M feels the mis-sold PPI part of the complaint 
wasnt handled to the same standard as the undisclosed commission part of the complaint 
as the latter required more involvement from her. But, I think its important to note the part of 
the complaint relating to mis-sold PPI went through the complete process  which involved 
our service. And, while the undisclosed commission part of the complaint was upheld 
following the letter of complaint, the mis-sold PPI part wasnt. So this, together with the 
adjudicator also not upholding the complaint, did require more involvement from Mrs M in 
order to challenge some of the points made.  
Unprofessional and dismissive and not escalating Mrs Ms complaint  
Ive listened to the recording of the call between Mrs M and TPSL on 17 November 2020. 
This call follows the adjudicators view so Mrs M asks what further information she can 
provide. The call handler says theyve sent all information Mrs M has already provided.    
Mrs M says what shes expecting is advice from TPSL on what they feel were the 
weaknesses in her complaint and thats why shes paying them a fee for their experience. 
The call handler says were not financial advisors The call handler says they can refer the complaint for an ombudsman decision but they cant say what the outcome will be.     
Mrs M asks how best she can challenge the adjudicators findings and TPSL should know 
from their experience what she can provide. The call handler says that its for Mrs M to 
provide the information thats relevant to her complaint.    
Mrs M says she doesnt feel TPSL are representing her best interests and asks for details of 
a manager. The call handler gives the first name of a manager but not their surname or their 
email address. Later in the call, the call handler does give the managers surname but not 
his email address. Its clear Mrs M is concerned about having to prepare all the further 
information herself and doesnt have confidence that everything she had already provided 
had been forwarded to our service. The call handler says shell arrange for her manager to 
give Mrs M a call so she can go through her concerns. TPSL accept this call wasnt made. 
I think there have been errors here in that the call handler didnt fully acknowledge that     
Mrs M wasnt asking for financial advice. She was pointing out that TPSL have expertise in 
this area and, given that she would be paying a fee if successful, she wanted to know what 
the areas of weakness were in her case and what additional information she could provide to 
help strengthen it. I dont think this was an unreasonable request on the part of Mrs M. Then, 
when asked, the call handler doesnt originally provide full details of her manager. Its clear 
Mrs M is very worried during the call and looking for some reassurance that her interests will 
be looked after and that a strong case will be put forward for an ombudsman to consider. So, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for her to ask for a managers details. Even when Mrs M 
says shed like to raise a complaint, and assured that a manager will call her, this doesnt 
happen. So, I think the service has fallen short of a reasonable standard here.   
In addition to this, I can understand why this event has upset Mrs M. She feels her complaint 
was ignored when she first tried to raise it, but it was addressed at the point TPSL were 
seeking payment of their invoice. I do acknowledge this, and I think the complaints handling 
issue during the call on 17 November is an extension of the customer service issues 
experienced by Mrs M during this call. 
Sending chasers for fees
In June 2020, Lender M made an offer of compensation and TPSL then sent an invoice to 
Mrs M in July and asked for payment within 14 days. They said if Lender M hasnt yet settled 
the complaint then payment of their invoice isnt due so Mrs M must contact them 
immediately so they can amend their records. This is followed by three automated text 
messages in late July asking for payment. TPSL say they have a general expectation, based 
on experience, of when Lender M pays customers, so they send an invoice and chasers in 
line with that general expectation. They say if theyre made aware a customer hasnt 
received their payment within their expected timescales, they adjust the timescales on their 
system to allow more time for the lender to pay. Ive seen their text messages and they do 
ask Mrs M to let them know if she hadnt received payment, however it wasnt until 2 August 
that Mrs M told them she hadnt received payment so they didnt have any reason before this 
date to adjust the expected timescales. So, I dont think it was unreasonable, prior to 2 
August, for TPSL to chase payment.  
Incorrect information 
Ive listened to a call recording where Mrs M contacts TPSL and they say theyve contacted 
Lender M and were told that if Mrs M hasnt received a payment then shell need to contact 
Lender M to get the cheque reissued. Mrs M queries whether Lender M have confirmed 
theyve released the cheque and the call handler at TPSL says they have. Mrs M says thats 
unusual as she hasnt received it and the call handler says it mightve got lost in the post and if Mrs M calls them then they can reissue it. Mrs M then called Lender M who confirmed a 
cheque hadnt yet been issued due to a backlog.
I think this misunderstanding arose because TPSL, during the call with Lender M, say theyre 
looking for the cheque to be reissued. I accept the call handler at Lender M doesnt correct 
TPSL and say the cheque hadnt yet been issued, but TPSL were already aware from a 
previous call with Lender M that they had limited the amount of information they were 
sharing with third parties. So, I understand why Lender M didnt correct TPSL and asked 
them to get Mrs M to call them. The fact remains however that the cheque being issued was 
an assumption made by TPSL based on their experience of the timescales Lender M works 
to when making payments. While I acknowledge it was TPSLs view based on their 
experience, there wasnt anything factual to suggest the cheque had been issued. So, I think 
Mrs M was given inaccurate information and TPSL couldve suggested to her a cheque 
mightve been issued, and this is based on their experience, but they cant say for certain.
Taking this all into account, I think there have been errors here. In particular, issues relating 
to the phone call in November 2020  and not escalating Mrs Ms complaint and not 
providing accurate information about the cheque. Mrs M has been left upset and frustrated 
and I can understand why she felt TPSL werent providing her with the assistance she was 
expecting. So, to reflect the impact on Mrs M, I think TPSL should pay compensation of £100 
 I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that there have been errors by TPSL which have had an impact on      
Mrs M. So, TPSL should pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the upset and frustration 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. The Protection Specialist Limited must pay 
compensation of £100 to Mrs M, if they havent done so already.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman