DRN-3440294
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs R complain because Astrenska Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim for a 
cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to Astrenska include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs R held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Astrenska. The first 
policy, which Ill call policy 1 ran from 15 December 2019 to 14 December 2020 and the 
second policy, which Ill call policy 2 ran from 15 December 2020 to 14 December 2021. 
Mr M and Mrs R were due to go on holiday in April 2020 but, unfortunately, couldnt travel 
due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Mr M and Mrs R were given the option to 
rebook the trip for a later date, so they spoke to Astrenska in March 2020 and said 
Astrenska told them theyd be covered if they went ahead and moved their bookings. Mr M 
and Mrs R therefore transferred their flights and accommodation for use in April 2021 
instead, and renewed their policy with Astrenska in December 2020. 
However, Mr M and Mrs R were also unable to travel in April 2021 due to Covid-19 related 
travel restrictions. They received a refund for the flights from their airline, and made a claim 
with Astrenska for their unused accommodation costs under policy 2. 
Astrenska said Mr M and Mrs Rs claim wasnt covered because policy 2 had exclusions for 
claims arising from Covid-19.  Unhappy, Mr M and Mrs R complained to Astrenska, saying 
theyd contacted it in March 2020 to check theyd have future cover before moving the trip 
from April 2020 to April 2021. Astrenska maintained its decision to decline Mr M and Mrs Rs 
claim. It said it couldnt locate a telephone call from Mrs Rs telephone number in March 
2020 and that it had over 1,000 calls from withheld numbers in that month, so it couldnt 
locate records of the advice which Mr M and Mrs R said theyd been given.
Mr M and Mrs R brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened and said he didnt think Astrenska had unreasonably 
rejected Mr M and Mrs Rs claim. Mr M and Mrs R didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so their complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my decision about Mr M and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Section 1: Cancellation of policy 2 sets out a list of specific, insured events for which 
cancellation cover is provided by Astrenska. Mr and Mrs Rs holiday in April 2021 wasnt 
cancelled for any of these listed, insured reasons. Furthermore, Section 1 of the policy 
contains a specific exclusion which says the following is not covered:
9. Any claims related directly or indirectly to coronavirus (Covid-19) apart from You 
are Covered event 1.
The event 1 mentioned relates to cancellation of a holiday due to death, injury or illness of 
the policyholder or certain other third parties. Event 1 therefore isnt relevant to Mr M and 
Mrs Rs circumstances, which means the exclusion applies to their claim. 
Furthermore, the reason given by Mr M and Mrs R for the cancellation of the April 2021 
holiday was government laws making it illegal to travel abroad for holidays. Section 1 of 
policy 2 also contains a specific exclusion relating to prohibitive regulations set by the 
government of any country. 
In addition, the General Exclusions set out in policy 2 say no cover is provided for any claim 
arising directly or indirectly from Covid-19  including the advice or action of any government 
not to travel or preventing travel - other than in certain limited situations (of which Mr M and 
Mrs Rs situation was not one). 
This means, not only is the reason for Mr M and Mrs Rs claim not covered as an insured 
event under their policy, their claim is excluded from cover for the reasons Ive listed above 
anyway. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think general exclusion 20 which Astrenska 
mentioned in its final response to Mr M and Mrs Rs complaint is relevant to their claim. 
Mr M and Mrs Rs trip was cancelled in March 2021, when policy 2 was in force. Annual 
travel insurance policies like this one dont necessarily offer continuous cover on the same 
terms as the previous year. An insurer is entitled to change the terms offered at every 
renewal. Ive reviewed the renewal documents which were sent to Mr M and Mrs R about 
policy 2, including the Insurance Product Information Document, and I think these clearly 
outline that limited cover is available under the policy for claims relating to Covid-19. 
I appreciate that Mr M and Mrs Rs options in finding alternative insurance cover for their 
April 2021 trip would have been extremely limited at the time policy 2 began, but this doesnt 
mean it would be fair to ask Astrenska to honour policy 1s terms when these were no longer 
in force at the time of the claim. Overall, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly direct Astrenska to treat this claim as having arisen while policy 1 was in 
force. 
Its unfortunate that Astrenska cant locate the call from March 2020, but Im satisfied it has 
made reasonable attempts to locate the recording, and I cant draw any adverse inferences 
or make any assumptions from its failure to do so. In the absence of the call recording, I 
have to decide what I think is most likely to have been discussed at the time. Ive taken into 
account what Mr M and Mrs R have told us, but I also have to be fair to Astrenksa. 
I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to be in a position to give definitive advice about 
whether a claim will be accepted when its contacted with an initial query. This is particularly 
the case when the query relates to a future, hypothetical claim where the exact 
circumstances of the claim and the terms of any future cover which may be offered are 
unknown at the time of the query. All claims are subject to the detailed terms and conditions 
set out in the policy documentation which is in force at the time the claim is made, and an 
insurer is entitled to ask for reasonable evidence and carry out reasonable investigations into 
a claim before confirming cover. In my experience of dealing with complaints of this type, 
most advice given by a travel insurer in response to a query of the kind Mrs R made will be generic and a policyholder will usually be advised to submit a claim form at the relevant time, 
with supporting documentation, for consideration before a claim is accepted. 
I understand Mr M and Mrs R feel they mitigated Astrenskas exposure to loss by rebooking 
their holiday for April 2021 rather than cancelling the April 2020 trip. But I dont think I can 
fairly conclude that any claim for cancelling the April 2020 accommodation booking would 
necessarily have been covered under policy 1. In common with most, if not all, travel 
insurance policies on the market, policy 1 didnt cover any costs which were recoverable 
from another source. Mr M and Mrs B were offered the option to rebook their April 2020 
accommodation plans. If Mr M and Mrs R had instead cancelled the April 2020 holiday, 
Astrenksa may well have declined the claim on the basis that the offer to rebook the 
accommodation meant they had no irrecoverable losses to claim for under policy 1. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Mrs R, but I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could fairly ask Astrenska to accept their claim, so I wont be directing it to do 
anything further.  
Mrs R has told us she has since realised that Astrenskas employee who investigated her 
complaint is known to her in a professional capacity. This isnt something which I have the 
power to comment on in this final decision, as Astrenska hasnt been given the opportunity to 
address the matter first. If Mrs R wishes to pursue a complaint about this, shed need to 
direct a complaint to Astrenska in the first instance before bringing a new complaint to our 
service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman