DRN-3951326
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money he lost when he 
fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Around July 2021, Mr K was introduced to a scammer via a friend on social media. 
He thought they were offering cryptocurrency investments. He sent three payments 
to C, a cryptocurrency exchange merchant who he would have needed to set up an 
account with, before transferring the funds on to the alleged trading platform.
Initially, Mr K could access what appeared to be a trading platform  and saw he was 
making profits. But when he tried to make a withdrawal, he was told he could only do 
so if the account balance exceeded $10,000. He then realised it was a scam.
In August 2022, supported by a professional representative, Mr K complained to his 
bank, Santander. He said that, when he had made the payments from his Santander 
account to C, it failed to identify the payments as out of character. 
Santander didnt agree to refund Mr K, so he referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt think the payments looked unusual, or that Santander could have 
recovered the funds. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
 Mr K has appealed. In summary, his representative submits:
oSantander should apply the standards of the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code;
oThe largest payment (around £2,000) was unusual  and if Santander had 
intervened in response to this risk, it would have uncovered the scam; and
oThe investigators argument around recovery through the chargeback scheme 
is irrelevant and should be disregarded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ks contact records persuade me he fell victim to a scam. But it is agreed he 
authorised these payments. In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, 
banks are expected to execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. 
So the starting position under the regulations is that Mr K is liable for the payments.
There are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the 
payment. But Im not persuaded Santanders anti-fraud systems ought to have 
identified the payments Mr K has disputed as uncharacteristic and indicative of fraud.
The payments didnt go direct to the scammer; they went to a legitimate intermediary. 
The individual amounts didnt look concerning and were spread out with gaps of a 
few days in between. All of that made the payments appear less suspicious. 
While the largest payment was just over £2,000, I dont think that amount  within 
Mr Ks account activity  was so large or otherwise unusual that Santander had 
cause to be concerned about fraud. This wasnt the first time Mr K was paying the 
recipient, and there had been previous payments (including a card payment) for a 
similar, or higher, amount in the months leading up to the scam. 
Mr Ks representative has referred to the CRM code. But that doesnt apply here the 
code doesnt cover card payments or me-to-me payments. The payments Im 
considering here were both, as the funds were paid, by card, direct to Mr Ks account 
with C. So the CRM code isnt a relevant consideration in this case  as Id expect 
Mr Ks professional representative to be well aware of.  
It doesnt appear Mr K ever raised a chargeback claim, nor that he complained to 
Santander about one. In any event, as the investigator explained, there wouldnt 
have been a realistic prospect of recovering the funds through this scheme. It would 
only consider a dispute against C, as the merchant paid direct, whereas Mr Ks 
dispute is about the platform he transferred the funds on to.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr K, who has clearly lost out to a cruel scam. But in 
the circumstances, Im not persuaded its fair to hold Santander liable for his loss or 
otherwise compensate him in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman