DRN-3818735
The complaint
Ms J complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) unfairly 
refused to increase the settlement of her serious illness claim when she provided it with new 
evidence. 
What happened
Ms J had a PruProtect Essentials Plan with Prudential. Her plan included serious illness 
cover which, in the event of a successful claim and based on a scale of severity, was 
designed to pay a percentage lump sum. 
In 2018 Ms J made a total permanent disability claim through her serious illness cover. She 
explained she had a number of medical conditions that were rendering her permanently 
unable to complete four functional activity tests (FATs). They were walking, bending, lifting, 
and climbing. 
Prudential accepted Ms Js claim but said there was only evidence of her being permanently 
unable to complete two FATs  walking and bending. As that attracted a severity rating of C 
and a 50% lump sum amount, thats what it paid in settlement of her claim. 
Ms J complained about that rating. Although Prudential maintained its position, it did say it 
would reconsider matters if further evidence that demonstrated Ms Js condition had 
increased in severity was provided. Ms J then referred her complaint to this service and it 
was considered under separate reference by one of our investigators. But that investigator 
said Prudential had acted fairly and reasonably and they did not uphold her complaint.
Ms J provided Prudential with further evidence. That included a report produced for another 
insurer to help it assess a claim Ms J had made with it too. The report had found Ms J 
unable to walk, bend, lift, and climb, so she asked Prudential to increase her severity rating 
to reflect that and in turn provide her with a 100% lump sum amount.
Prudential acknowledged Ms Js abilities were compromised in some areas and noted the 
report advised she was diagnosed with different conditions. But Prudential reminded Ms J 
that her PruProtect Essentials Plan specifically excluded any restrictions caused by 
osteoarthritis and said it had to take that into account. As a result, Prudential explained it 
considered Ms Js osteoarthritis to be responsible for the majority of her restrictions, 
meaning it wouldnt be changing her severity rating and she wasnt eligible for any additional 
payment. 
Ms J raised another complaint and when Prudential maintained its position she referred it to 
this service again. It is this complaint that is the subject of this decision.   
Our investigator didnt think Prudential had sought the opinion of a relevant medical 
professional when reaching a position on the further evidence provided. And they didnt think 
it was fair of it to decline Ms Js claim for further benefit on that basis. So, they 
recommended Prudential seek a medical opinion on matters or instruct another assessment 
to consider the cause of Ms Js limitations. 
Ms J accepted that opinion, but Prudential did not and instead referred the matter to its Chief 
Medical Officer (CMO) for a full clinical review and opinion. Having done so the CMO set out 
there was no merit in an additional upgrade of the severity C claim that had already been 
paid. So as no agreement between the parties was reached the complaint was passed to me 
to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think it was unreasonable of Prudential 
to find that Ms J didnt qualify for an increased lump sum. That decision now forms part of 
this final decision, and it read as follows:
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and for the reasons Ill now explain Im not currently intending to uphold this 
complaint.
Ms J has set out her position in detail and Id like to thank her for taking the time to do so. 
Although I have reviewed everything, my findings will focus on those matters I consider 
relevant and central to the outcome of this complaint. They may not address every single 
argument made. 
In line with the obligations placed on it by the Financial Conduct Authority in the Insurance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), Prudential has a responsibility to consider claims 
both promptly and fairly and to not reject them unreasonably.
Ms J has sought to demonstrate an increase in severity by providing Prudential with further 
evidence including a report produced for the benefit of another insurer. Ill refer to that 
insurer as X. From what I understand, when Ms J made a claim with X she received a 
100% lump sum payment in settlement, but I dont think it automatically follows that Xs claim 
decision needed to influence Prudentials.
Although Ms J had policies with both X and Prudential, the two were not like for like. Xs 
policy did not contain an exclusion for osteoarthritis while Prudentials did, for example. And 
Xs policy only required three FATs to be failed in order to attract a 100% payment figure 
while Prudentials required at least four. 
When making a claim the onus is on the consumer to show they have a valid claim in line 
with the policy terms. And, if applicable, it is then for an insurer to show that a relevant 
exclusion applies. In order to demonstrate eligibility for an upgraded severity rating and a 
100% lump sum payment, Ms J would need to show that the severity of her condition(s) had 
deteriorated and she was permanently unable to complete at least four FATs because of 
conditions not excluded from her policy. 
However, the report Ms J provided did not distinguish which medical conditions may or may 
not have been affecting her ability to undertake certain FATs. Although I think thats 
understandable given the report was produced for X and its policy which didnt have any 
exclusions placed upon it. It did mean that the general failure of FATs was only of relevance 
within the report as opposed to the causation of such failure too. 
Following our investigators opinion Prudential sought a medical opinion on the further 
evidence Ms J provided. It did so through its CMO who in summary said:
The report wasnt based on any specific objective testing methods. Rather, it had 
been based on self-assessment and observation. Ms Js observed failure to lift during the assessment would have been affected by 
conditions of her hands, elbows, or shoulders  especially as the report noted shed 
attempted the lift whilst seated  and that wouldnt satisfy the Prudential policy when 
her osteoarthritis was disregarded. 
Ms Js failure to climb had not been noted in the report. Rather, shed been noted to 
have expressed trepidation when asked to climb stairs and observed to be using a 
ramp sideways  thus indicating the task of climbing was not attempted due to 
osteoarthritis in her knees more than anything else. 
Ms J had been able to climb in and out of a car with support from her husband and:
Upon revisiting the files and the reports, there was no significant change in health 
that was not listed in the 7/2/19 FCE that would make this assessment invalid. As 
discussed, the tasks of lifting and climbing stairs are not deemed to be affected by 
her lower back pain, but more so by the pain and OA in her hands and knees. 
The other aspect in a TPD assessment is that failing the FATs needs to be 
permanent as per the contract definition. There was mention of deconditioning in the 
initial physiotherapist assessment in 2020, as well as weight gain by Ms J. The 
permanency aspect can be dealt with when additional FATs are failed.
I do acknowledge the difficulties Ms J says shell likely experience if she tries to obtain 
evidence to show an increase in severity excluding osteoarthritis. But at this point, for the 
reasons given above including the CMOs opinion, I dont currently think it was unreasonable 
of Prudential to find that Ms J did not qualify for an increased severity rating or higher lump 
sum payment based on the further evidence she provided.
That Ms J will likely be disappointed by these provisional findings is fully appreciated. Id like 
to reassure her that the above is in no way intended to detract from the difficulties shes told 
us she is experiencing, and I acknowledge that two different policies have both found her 
eligible for a lump payment as a result of her health.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both sides have now responded to my provisional decision. 
Prudential did not have anything additional to add and confirmed it would wait for Ms Js 
acceptance.
Ms J said she would not be providing anything else either and instead asked for a final 
decision which would close this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and as neither side provided anything else for me to consider I remain of the 
same opinion. For the reasons given in my provisional decision I will not be interfering with 
Prudentials position, because I dont think it was unreasonable of it to find that Ms J didnt 
qualify for an increased severity rating or higher lump sum payment.  
I will again take this opportunity to reiterate that my findings are in no way intended to detract 
from the difficulties Ms J has told us she faces because of her ill health  I acknowledge two different policies have paid her a lump sum amount because of her health. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman