DRN-2819829
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim she made on her travel
insurance policy.  
What happened
In July 2019 Miss R booked a holiday to America through a UK based events company. She 
purchased her flights separately and was due to travel on 31 March 2020.
On 13 March 2020 Miss R took out a single trip travel insurance policy. She purchased
Deluxe cover which offered the highest level of cover for this brand.
On 14 March 2020, the US government announced plans to restrict travel from Europe. The
US borders were subsequently closed to UK travellers on 16 March 2020, due to Covid-19.
The FCO advised against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020 and that guidance
remained in place at the time Miss R was due to travel.
The company Miss R had booked through contacted Miss R to say the trip wouldnt go
ahead on 20 March 2020. They also said that they were invoking the force majeure clause
in their booking terms and conditions. The tour operator appointed liquidators in May 2020.
Miss R was able to recover the cost of her flights from the airline. But she claimed on her
travel insurance policy for around £2250. Great Lakes declined Miss Rs claim saying the
policy would only cover the unused holiday if the FCO issued a directive against travel to
your destination due to an earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane. It said that there was no other
section of the policy which would provide cover for an unused holiday cost as a result of an
infectious condition or pandemic. Miss R made a complaint to Great Lakes but they
maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Miss R made a complaint to our
service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She upheld the complaint on the basis that
Miss R wasnt covered if she cancelled, but also not covered if she travelled against FCO
advice. Great Lakes didnt agree. In summary they said that the policy only covers specific
insured perils and that just because an event is in the general exclusion section of a policy it
doesnt mean that it should reasonably be covered by the cancellation section of the policy.
They also said this was standard industry practice and referred to other branded policies in
support of their position. Finally, they said that the policy had a cooling off period and it
would have been clear to Miss R that this scenario wasnt covered.
In February 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I explained I was intending to 
uphold Miss Rs complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for 
Business) say;
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to;
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its
customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly.

ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an Insurance
Product Information Document (IPID) which gives customers an at a glance summary of
their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks
insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary of
excluded risks.
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions 
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
The policy terms and conditions
One page 1 of the terms and conditions, under the heading Important Information it says:
It is important that you read this document carefully This document details what is
and what is not covered along with any terms, conditions and exclusions of cover,
and that this meets your requirements
Page 15 of the policy terms and conditions sets out the policy cancellation terms. It sets out
the circumstances in which cover is provided for cancellation of a trip in a number of different
circumstances. It says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown on the table of benefits per insured person
for your non-refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you are contracted
to pay), for your travel and accommodation (Including pre-paid excursions up to
£250), which you do not use because of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person that you have arranged
to stay with during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay
c) You or any person with who you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or
advisory capacity)
d) You, or a travelling companion being made redundant, provided you qualify for aredundancy payment under current legislation application within your home
country
e) The Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or
all but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire,
flood, or hurricane 
Pages 38 and 39 of the policy include the general exclusions which apply to the policy. It
says:
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
23. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar
governing body have advised against all, or all but essential travel.
Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion.
The IPID
At the top of the document the IPID says:
This Insurance Product Information Document is only intended to provide a summary
of the main coverage and exclusions, and is not personalised to your specific
individual needs in any way. Complete pre-contractual information on the product is
provided in your policy documentation
Under the heading What is insured? the IPID says, Cancellation  up to £7, 500.
And, under the heading, Where am I covered, page 2 of the IPID says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For
further details, visit: www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
Has Miss Rs claim been unfairly declined?
On the date that Miss R was due to travel, 31 March 2020, the FCO was advising against all
travel outside of the UK. The USA had also closed its borders to UK citizens.
Miss Rs trip was cancelled because the US had closed the borders. But FCO guidance
against essential travel remained in place at the time Miss R planned to travel. That isnt one
of the specific, listed insured events for which cancellation cover is provided.
If Miss R had disregarded FCO advice, and travelled to the USA anyway, her policy would
have been invalidated and shed have had no cover under her policy. Given that the borders
were closed it seems unlikely that shed have actually been able to enter the USA if her flight
went ahead. But, had she travelled, shed have had no access to benefits under the policy
including benefits for missed departure, lost or stolen possessions or cover for emergency
medical treatment. So, the policy would have been, in effect, of no use to her at all.
Although the policy terms dont list cancellation due to a change to FCO advice as a specific
insured event I also need to consider what I think is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of Miss Rs complaint. In doing so, Ive had regard to the industry rules and
guidance outlined above, as well as to relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in
the Consumer Rights Act 2015).Having done so, I dont think its fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Miss R to have
no cover when she had to cancel her holiday due to a change in FCO advice after shed
bought her policy.
Ive considered Great Lakes arguments that the policy only covers specific insured events
and what its said about wider industry practice. Ive also considered that there was a 14 day
cooling off period in which Miss R could have considered the policy terms after shed bought
it.
However, I dont think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims arising from the FCO
advising against travel was clearly sign-posted to Miss R, and I dont think the implications of
this were made clear to her. I think this has left Miss R in an unfair position and Ill explain
why.
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the
policy in a way thats easy to understand. However, I dont think the FCO exclusion is
prominent in the IPID, and cancellation claims due to FCO advice against all but essential
travel arent included in the What is not insured section of the IPID.
The FCO exclusion in Miss Rs policy doesnt specifically state that no cover is provided for
cancellation of a holiday in the event of FCO advice changing between the date the policy
was purchased and the policyholders date of departure.
The terms and conditions of Miss Rs policy includes a table of benefits which sets out that
there is cover for cancellation and cutting short a trip. The limit of cover is £7, 500. As Ive
outlined above similar information is contained within the IPID. Both documents also refer
the consumer to their policy documentation for the full terms and conditions of the contract.
This means that a consumer would need to go further into the detail of the policy wording to
work out whether they could claim if they had to cancel their trip because of changes to FCO
guidance after theyd bought their policy.
When a consumer reaches page 15 of the policy document, which sets out the cover
available if they are unable to go on their trip, claims arising from a change in FCO advice
arent listed as a specific exclusion. Instead, claims for this reason are something that arent
listed as included. So a consumer would also need to cross refer this information with the
IPID and page 39 of the policy to understand that they werent covered for cancellation due
to a change in FCO advice.
I dont think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims is transparent enough. The
section on the policy setting out what will be covered if the consumer is unable to travel, on
page 15, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented in the same place. So, I
dont think it would be obvious to a policyholder that they would have no cover whatsoever
under the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their destination after they purchased
their policy. Even with a cooling-off period, I think a consumer might not be able to easily
understand the full effect of the policy. I think the way the cancellation section of cover and
the FCO exclusion under the other sections of the policy are presented separately means
their combined effect isnt clear.
In the circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between
Miss R and Great Lakes. Miss R was left without any cover at all when the FCO advice
changed, and this shifted the rights and obligations under the contract significantly in Great
Lakes favour. I think that the terms and conditions didnt properly take Miss Rs interests into
account, and Im not persuaded Miss R would have freely agreed to a policy that left her
without any cover in these circumstances if shed realised that was how the policy would
operate.So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available under this policy is
presented is not fair, and Great Lakes isnt acting in the best interests of its customer when
presenting the information in this way.
I concluded that Great Lakes needed to put things right by assessing Miss Rs claim under 
the cancellation section of her cover, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. I asked Miss R and Great Lakes to let me know if they had any further comments. 
Miss R accepted my decision. Great Lakes responded and in summary they said: 
The IPID issued was dated on 13 March 2020. It was dated November 2019  there 
was no known pandemic or related risks at the time when the IPID was issued, which 
is why there was no mention of COVID in the document
The IPID documents were approved by the UK regulator and that if it wasnt fit for 
purpose then could I comment on what insurers should include
Avanti provided a summary of cover which states under cancellation, To be able to 
claim, the reason why the trip is being cancelled or cut short must be necessary and 
avoidable and must fall into one of the reasons listed in the policy
The IPID was updated in May 2020 following the outbreak of Covid-19. 
So, I now need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made any further representations in relation to the relevant law, 
regulations and industry guidelines. So, I remain persuaded that the key considerations I set 
out in my provisional decision are those which apply to this case. 
The further representations made by Great Lakes havent changed my thoughts about the 
outcome of this complaint. I say that because: I appreciate that the IPID was produced in November 2019, prior to the known 
risks of Covid-19 to travel insurers and before it was considered an epidemic or 
pandemic. However, its not uncommon for the FCO to change or update advice 
about travel to countries, for example following the outbreak of infectious 
diseases, political unrest or acts of terrorism. So, if Great Lakes intended to 
exclude claims for cancellation due to changes in FCO guidance Id have 
expected it to include a clear exclusion in the policy terms and conditions so that 
consumers like Miss R could understand that the policy didnt offer cover in such 
circumstances
Great Lakes referred to the summary of cover in support of their position. But, as 
I outlined in my provisional decision, I dont think the information about the 
relevant exclusion was presented in such a way that the combined effects of the 
policy terms, which is to exclude cover for cancellation due to a change in FCO 
guidance is clear. And I remain satisfied the presentation of the information isnt 
fair this has created a significant imbalance in Great Lakes favour. So, I dont 
think that Miss R would have entered into the contract had she been aware of 
how the policy operated 
I was also asked to comment on the material in the IPID. My role is to make a 
decision on the evidence in this case, not to comment on what should appear in 
the IPID. The format of the IPID is standard but the content of the IPID, and the 
information which appears about the key features of the policy, is not. So, this 
hasnt changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint.
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by assessing Miss Rs claim under the cancellation 
section of her cover, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Rs complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and directing it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman