DRN-3979971
The complaint
Miss K says Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo), didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to a 
an authorised push payment (APP) investment scam. She says Monzo should reimburse 
her for the money she lost.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
In summary, Miss K fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. Miss K says she was 
invited to be part of a group about making money on an instant messaging service. Miss K 
was shown that she could make good returns. She was promised returns of 15% and was 
also told that if she deposited $1,000, she could make daily profits of $200. 
Miss K made two payments to a third party and then subsequently made four payments to a 
cryptocurrency account in her own name, and then from there, on to what she thought was a 
company that would invest for her.
The payments Miss K made were as follows:
Date Time Type of transfer Amount
23/01/2022 7.38pm Faster payment to third party £1,400
23/01/2022 10.23pm Faster payment to third party £100
31/01/2022 6.59pm Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £1,040
31/01/2022 8.37pm Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £743.50
01/02/2022 5.02pm Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £900
02/02/2022 5.29pm Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £350
Total £4,533.50
Unfortunately Miss K had in fact been duped by fraudsters. Miss K uncovered that she had 
fallen victim to a scam when she was unable to withdraw any funds / profits.
Miss K reported the matter to Monzo on 29 March 2023. Monzo also reached out to the 
beneficiary bank (the bank where payments 1 and 2 were sent to) to see if any funds 
remained that could be recovered. Unfortunately Monzo received a response advising that 
no funds remained. Monzo also didnt consider it was liable for the losses Miss K incurred.
Unhappy, Miss K brought her complaint to our service. Our Investigator reviewed the matter 
and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ultimately the Investigator explained the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code) 
which Monzo adheres to the principles of, was applicable to the first two payments Miss K 
made  as they were faster payments made to a third party. 
The CRM Code is a voluntary code which requires Firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.
While these two payments were covered by the CRM Code, our Investigator considered 
Monzo had fairly applied an exception to reimbursement  namely that Miss K didnt have a 
reasonable basis of belief when making the payments. And given the value of payments one 
and two they didnt think Monzo needed to provide an effective warning as part of the 
payment process.
For the remaining four payments Miss K made, as these were made were to an account in 
her own name at the cryptocurrency exchange provider our Investigator considered they 
werent covered by the CRM Code as the CRM Code requires consumers to pay another 
person. 
And in relation to these four payments, our Investigator didnt think Monzo ought to have 
done more to identify the payments as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. They 
didnt consider Monzo ought to have had a cause for concern that Miss K was potentially at 
risk of financial harm, or that she was falling victim to a scam to an extent that it ought to 
have intervened and questioned her further about the transfers. 
With regards to the recovery of any funds, our Investigator considered that Monzo had acted 
in a timely manner and provided evidence to show it had contacted the beneficiary bank but 
unfortunately no funds remained that could be recovered.  
Miss K disagreed with the Investigators opinion and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Having thought carefully about Monzo actions, Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for her. Miss K was a victim of a cruel scam. But in 
weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Monzo should reimburse her under the 
CRM Code or otherwise. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Miss K authorised the payments that are the subject of this
complaint, even though she did so as a result of being deceived by a fraudster. Broadly
speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations
2017, she would normally be liable for it. But that isnt the end of the story.
Payments 1 and 2
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the CRM Code.
Payments 1 and 2 are covered by the CRM Code  as Miss K made a payment via faster 
payment, in sterling and the payments were to another person with the beneficiary account 
being a UK domiciled account. The CRM Code requires Firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. If a Firm chooses not to 
reimburse a customer, it is for the Firm to establish that one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement as set out in the CRM Code apply.
Under the CRM Code, a Sending Firm (in this case Monzo) may choose not to reimburse a 
customer if it can establish that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, I think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse 
Miss K under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics and 
complexity of the scam, I dont think Miss K had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate. 
In order to determine whether this exception to reimbursement applies, I must ask if Miss K 
made the payments she did whilst having a reasonable basis for belief that all was genuine. 
Having carefully reviewed everything Im afraid I dont find thats the case. Ill explain why.
Miss K was invited to be a part of a group on an instant messaging service which was about 
making money. But having reviewed this aspect and the messages Miss K has provided, I 
find there was enough going on that reasonably should have given Miss K cause for concern 
that things werent right and there were enough warning signs that meant Miss K should 
have carried out further checks before proceeding with any payments. I say this because 
Miss K didnt know anyone within the group and Miss K was told that she could make profits 
of 15% and also $200 a day if she deposited $1,000. This type of return is wholly unrealistic, 
and it appears Miss K simply accepted what she was being told at face value when 
reasonably it should have caused concern. 
There were other factors that should have reasonably caused Miss K to question things also. 
Miss K made the first two payments to a third-party account and not into the name of a 
company or a business account for example. Miss K has explained that she was told it was 
the sons account and that this was the procedure and she felt reassured that it was a family 
company. However I dont find this plausible. Legitimate companies or investment firms dont 
operate in this manner and Miss K should have been concerned or questioned what she was 
being asked to do here.
Overall, there was enough going on that should have given Miss K more than a cause for 
concern. To my mind it is reasonable to suggest that this should have led to Miss K 
questioning the legitimacy of it all and what she was being told and the returns she was 
being promised. So I think Monzo have acted fairly in choosing to decline reimbursing 
Miss K under the CRM Code under the grounds that an exception to reimbursement applies.Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as Monzo engage in the monitoring 
of customer accounts and to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character
transactions with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm.
And under the CRM Code, where it identified a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP
scam, it was required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
We now know, with the benefit of hindsight, that Miss K was falling victim to a scam. But
based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont consider Monzo wouldve 
had any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. I say this because the payments 
wouldnt have appeared out of character or unusual. The payments werent particularly large 
or remarkable. So I dont think the CRM Code required that Monzo display an effective 
warning as part of the payment process, and Im not persuaded it wouldve had any grounds 
for intervening to question the payments with Miss K before allowing them to be processed.
I have also considered Miss Ks circumstances at the time of making the payments and I 
thank her for being open with our service in this regard. However upon reviewing this aspect, 
Im not persuaded Miss K was vulnerable under the CRM Code which would allow for an 
automatic refund of payments 1 and 2. To my mind Miss K ought reasonably to have been 
able to protect herself from becoming a victim to this type of APP scam at the time. As 
explained above, it seems Miss K simply took what she was being told at face value 
whereas the returns she was being promised ought to have raised concerns. I think it is 
reasonable to say that Miss K wasnt vulnerable to an extent whereby she couldnt have 
questioned what she was being told. 
Payments 3 - 6
Before I go on to explain my findings in relation to payments 3 - 6, I want to clarify for 
Miss Ks benefit why the CRM Code isnt applicable in her case and what the relevant law 
and regulations were at the time.
Why the CRM Code isnt applicable
The CRM Code sets out under DS1(2) (a) the scope of what the CRM Code covers in 
relation to authorised push payment (APP) fraud. And that is instances where: 
(i)The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or
 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
As the transfers Miss K made from her Monzo account to the cryptocurrency exchange 
provider were to an account in her own name, they arent covered by or within the scope of 
the CRM Code. This is because Miss K wasnt paying another person.
The relevant law and regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. It is agreed by all parties that Miss K authorised all the transfers that are in dispute. And 
under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place 
here) that means Miss K is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Miss K 
was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
However there are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, 
even though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Monzo have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
What does this mean for Miss K?
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss K when she made the four transfers, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I cant fairly say the four transfers Miss K 
made would (or should) have alerted Monzo that Miss K was potentially at risk of financial 
harm, to an extent whereby it should have carried out some additional checks before 
processing the payments. So I dont consider Monzo are liable for the losses Miss K 
incurred. Ill explain why.
I have to be mindful that banks process a high volume of transfers and transactions each 
day. And a bank has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly intervene on a 
payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. Here, I dont consider 
there is anything unusual or remarkable about the payments or the amounts that ought to 
have alerted Monzo to the possibility Miss K was being scammed or was at risk of financial 
harm. All things considered; I think it was reasonable that the payments didnt flag as 
suspicious  and I cant say Monzo acted unfairly here. 
Recovery of the funds
I have also considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Miss K 
lost. 
For payments 1 and 2, Monzo was limited in terms of what it could do here; it could only ask 
the Receiving Firm to return any money that remained in the recipient account. It needed to 
make enquiries quickly for the best chance of recovery. The evidence Ive seen persuades 
me Monzo did act quickly. Unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the 
money on as quickly as possible. While Miss K, after realising she was the victim of a scam, 
reported the matter  it was on 29 March 2023, nearly two months after she had made the 
payments. And unfortunately, no funds remained that could be recovered, so there was 
nothing more Monzo could do.
For payments 3 - 6 given Miss K sent the funds to a cryptocurrency account in her own 
name  with her money being converted into cryptocurrency and moved on  there wasnt 
anything further Monzo could do to help Miss K recover her funds. 
Summary
Im sorry Miss K lost her money in this way. But for the reasons explained, I find:
for payments 1 and 2, Miss K didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
payments were for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with 
whom she transacted was legitimate. So I consider it was fair and reasonable for 
Monzo to decline to reimburse her for her losses under the CRM Code. And, given the value of the payments, Monzo wasnt required to provide an effective warning as 
part of the payment process.  
for the remaining four payments Miss K made, Monzo wouldnt have been alerted to 
the fact Miss K was potentially at risk of financial harm, to an extent whereby it 
should have carried out some additional checks before processing the payments  so 
isnt liable for the losses she incurred. 
Monzo acted in a timely manner in attempting to recover any funds from the 
beneficiary bank for payments 1 and 2 but unfortunately none remained. And there 
was nothing it could do to recover the remaining payments Miss K made as they had 
already been moved on to the scammer from her cryptocurrency account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman