DRN-2940019
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has refused to refund her the
unauthorised transactions that were made fraudulently on her account.
What happened
The Parties are aware of the background to this complaint. So, I dont intend to set it out in
detail here. But, in summary, just over £4,000 was taken from Ms Ms One Account and
used to pay some credit cards that werent hers.
Ms M first raised this with RBS in December 2019, just over a year after the transactions
had been made in October and November 2018. They came to light when her accountant
was preparing her tax return. And she reported them without delay as soon as she knew
what had happened. Ms M sadly had some very difficult personal circumstances around the
time that these transactions were first made. And, given the vulnerable situation she was in,
she didnt spot them at the time.
Ms M is also unhappy that RBS didnt cancel her debit card, whose details may have been
used to make these fraudulent payments. And she thinks that RBS online banking service
isnt very user friendly, so she doesnt use it, instead relying on telephone banking and
monthly statements.
RBS apologised for not cancelling Ms Ms card. But it said that as its terms and conditions
provide that a customer must check their statements and inform it as soon as they become
aware of any unrecognised transactions, and in any event within 13 months, they didnt
consider Ms Ms circumstances relieved her of the obligation to have reported this earlier.
So, it said it wouldnt be investigating the fraud any further. Ms M has said that this caused
her significant upset and stress, adding to the difficult time that she was having already.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Ms complaint be upheld. Whilst he was sorry to
hear of the situation, he thought that Ms M could have reported these unknown transactions
sooner. And so he didnt think RBS had acted unreasonably in relying on the 13-month
requirement in the terms and conditions.
Ms M didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision. In advance of this final 
decision, I issued a provisional decision to the parties, in which I said I intended to uphold 
Ms Ms complaint and explained why. Both Ms M and RBS accepted what I said in that 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision, I shall be upholding this complaint and am requiring 
RBS to refund Ms M the disputed transactions. My findings in that provisional decision are 
set out below. And given that both parties have accepted them, I dont see any need to 
change what Ive found. So, Im adopting them in full in this final decision.
I was very sorry to hear about the difficult few years Ms M has had. She not only lost her
father around the time of these transactions, but also her brother-in-law. Her nephew was
suffering from significant mental health concerns. And Ms M was understandably
concentrating on helping her sister in what was clearly a time of family need.
The evidence indicates that the transactions here were unauthorised. Ms M didnt have
cards with the businesses concerned. And the last time shed used her own debit card had
been over a year previously.
There had been no obvious point of compromise for Ms Ms card. And one of the credit card
companies had confirmed to her that the payments appeared fraudulent. The card company
had asked her to contact RBS and request that it get in touch with them, as it was unable to
discuss the card details with her, given it wasnt her account. But RBS had refused to help,
relying on the 13-month clause in its terms and conditions.
Due to the passing of time, RBS was unable to provide us with a copy of the terms and
conditions that it says Ms M had originally been given when she opened her One Account
back in 2002. But it sent us the latest version, which itself is 14 pages long, the relevant
clause being on page 7. So, its not something that would have been particularly highlighted
to Ms M.
Its of course not unreasonable to expect a customer to read their statements and to report
any unknown items promptly. Here, Ms M did make RBS aware within 14 months, only a
month longer than the long-stop date, but also, importantly, as soon as her accountant made
her aware of them.
Given Ms Ms personal circumstances, and clear vulnerability, at the time of the
unauthorised transactions, I dont consider it unreasonable that her mind may not have been
closely focussed on checking her bank statements. And due to the problems that shed had
accessing online banking, she wont have had an opportunity to learn of this fraud since,
given she hadnt spotted it in the relevant bank statement that month anyway.
I think its also relevant to note here that Ms Ms One Account saw significant sums of money
going through her account at the relevant time. The main benefit of the One Account is that it
has a mortgage set-off arrangement, whereby theres an open facility of up to half the value
of Ms Ms home. She had significant equity in that house and the account was in debit at the
time. So, this wasnt a case of Ms M going into an unexpected overdraft as a result of the
fraudulent transactions. Nor would she have necessarily noticed that her account was in a
significantly different state at the time as a result of them.
Ms M has said that at the relevant time shed also bought her son a car, so when she looked
at the statement, she was in any event expecting the balance to be different to normal. So, I
can understand why, when glancing quickly at the statements, she may not have spotted the
unauthorised sums going out. She also wasnt in the habit of using her debit card on this
account, having last used it a year or so before. So, again, she wouldnt have necessarily
been looking for unusual payments like this. And she wouldnt have looked at the statements
again until the paperwork went to her accountant at the end of the year.
RBS has said that Ms M told it that she hadnt looked at her statements at all for the last 14
months before she reported this to it. I havent been provided with the relevant call where
she is alleged to have said that. And I understand Ms M has also asked for the calls, but
theyve never been provided. Ms Ms evidence is, however, that she had understandablybeen distracted by the very difficult personal circumstances that shed been experiencing. So
even if that was the case, I think there are extenuating circumstances here as to why she
may not have checked her statements properly at the time.
So, Ive provisionally decided that, in the circumstances of Ms Ms complaint, RBS hasnt
acted fairly and reasonably in refusing to investigate and refund these fraudulent payments
to Ms M. And I think it should now refund her the relevant payments. It should also
compensate her for any interest that was charged on her One Account for the period when
these payments remained outstanding whilst the account was in debit.
This situation has understandably also caused Ms M some distress, as well as the
inconvenience of following this up on numerous occasions. And she has been worried about
how her account had been compromised, and whether or not it may happen again. This was
compounded by RBS failure to cancel her debit card at the time the fraud was reported. I
understand that in a separate complaint RBS have paid Ms M £100 compensation for this.
But I think it should pay her a further £100 compensation for the effect the whole matter has
had on her.
I appreciate that Ms M is also unhappy with the online banking service that RBS provides.
But thats not an aspect of her complaint where I can say that RBS has done anything
wrong. I appreciate what shes said and why she doesnt use it. And thats of course her
choice. But its not something that Im afraid I can ask RBS to do anything about. Although I
have taken it into account in determining why it wasnt unreasonable for Mrs M not to have
noticed these transactions any sooner than she did.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that The Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc refund Ms M the fraudulent transactions and any interest that has been
charged on those sums over any period when her account was in debit. It should also pay
her an additional £100 compensation for the upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman