DRN-3947598
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) returned her monthly 
mortgage payment and then wrongly recorded a missed payment on her credit file. Mrs B 
says this caused her stress and is affecting her credit rating. Mrs B asks that Halifax corrects 
her credit file and adjusts interests related to the late payment.
What happened
Mrs B made a payment to her mortgage account at the end of August 2022. Halifax says the 
transfer didnt include the mortgage account number, so it wasnt paid into Mrs Bs account. 
The payment was returned to Mrs Bs bank. 
Mrs B made another payment which arrived into her mortgage account in early September 
2022. Mrs B made a number of calls to Halifax before she was told what had happened. 
Halifax sent a cheque for £30 for poor service. Halifax says a direct debit was set up later in 
2022. 
Our investigator said the compensation paid by Halifax was fair. She said Halifax wasnt 
wrong to report the payment as late as it wasnt received into Mrs Bs mortgage account on 
time.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said it was unfair to ruin her credit report when the payment was 
made on time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks have a duty to report accurate and up to date information to the credit reference 
agencies. Halifax says Mrs B needs to make a payment into her mortgage account each 
month. It didnt receive the payment due in August 2022 until the following month. And so 
the payment was late and it recorded this on Mrs Bs credit file.
Mrs B says this is unfair. She says she made the payment on time. Ive considered what 
Mrs B has said, and I sympathise with whats happened. But for me to require Halifax to 
remove the late payment from her credit file Id have to find that it is incorrect, or it was unfair 
for Halifax to record it. I dont think thats the case, and Ive explained why below. 
Mrs B had previously made payments to her mortgage account by bank transfer and by card 
payment. When Mrs B made the payment at the end of August 2022 by bank transfer the 
mortgage account number wasnt included in the payment details. 
Halifax returned the payment. I dont think that was an error or unfair. Halifax says the 
payment was returned to Mrs Bs bank promptly.
Halifax wasnt responsible for the missing account details that resulted in the payment being 
returned.  
Mrs B made this payment at the end of August 2022. She didnt have time to arrange 
another payment to arrive in her account before the end of the month. I cant see that Halifax 
was responsible for Mrs B arranging payments at the end of the month.
Halifax wrote to Mrs B on 31 August 2022 about the missed payment. Its unfortunate that 
Mrs B didnt receive the letter, but theres no evidence this was due to an error by Halifax. 
Halifax had made Mrs B aware of the need to make a payment each month, and that not 
doing so could affect her credit file. Halifax wrote to Mrs B in June 2022 confirming changes 
to her account. It said she needed to ensure monthly payments were made on time and said 
she might consider paying by direct debit. This letter also said making payments earlier in 
the month would allow time to sort out any problems. Halifaxs records say it wrote to Mrs B 
in mid-August 2022 saying that her credit file would be affected if payments are not received 
in the calendar month in which they are due. 
I know Mrs B will be disappointed, but I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require Halifax to remove the late payment from her credit file or pay 
compensation for any additional interest incurred. Ultimately, its Mrs Bs responsibility to 
make payments to her mortgage account each month. Halifax didnt receive a payment in 
August 2022, and this wasnt because of an error by Halifax. I dont think its incorrect or 
unfair for Halifax to record this on Mrs Bs credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman