DRN-4508407
The complaint
Mr T complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner
Finance) (BPF) wrongly activated a loan account and damaged his credit record.
Mr T is represented by a family member but Ill refer to everything thats been said on his
behalf as if Mr T had said this himself, to keep things simple.
What happened
In 2021 Mr T took out a fixed sum loan with BPF to fund the supply and installation of a new
kitchen. There were numerous problems with the supply of both goods and services and it
took over a year to sort things out with the third party supplier (that Ill call W). In July 2022
Mr T received some correspondence from BPF about late payments. He thinks it was wrong
of BPF to activate the loan and pay W when it knew about the ongoing dispute as Mr T had
raised a related claim against BPF, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The dispute with W was settled towards the end of 2022 - W carried out various rectification
works and paid compensation  but Mr T says his credit record was adversely affected by 
BPFs actions. Several lenders, hed been with for some years, reduced the credit limits on 
his accounts significantly and he thinks this is due to information BPF that recorded on his 
credit file. 
Mr T complained to BPF and it said (in summary) under the loan terms and conditions W 
could be paid at any stage after the agreement was signed and the loan was activated after 
W confirmed that goods and services contracted for had been provided. Mr T was notified of 
the activation and loan repayments then fell due that werent made in time and it wasnt 
wrong to record this information on his credit file. BPF acknowledged the dispute with W had 
been resolved and agreed to remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit record, as a 
goodwill gesture. 
Mr T remained unhappy and he asked our service to look into what happened. One of our 
investigators considered the evidence and she didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. She was satisfied that BPF activated the loan according to the relevant terms and 
conditions and she didnt think there was enough evidence to show that Mr Ts credit rating 
was reduced due to something BPF did wrong.
Mr T didnt think that was fair. He feels the investigator based her view solely on the loan
contract and didnt take all of the evidence into account. He asked for an ombudsman to
review the matter and said (in summary):-
hes seen one copy of the loan agreement which indicates it was electronically
signed on 19 August 2021  15 days after W accepted the order; 
W confirmed that payment wasnt due until the work was signed off as complete - 
which didnt happen until October 2022 - yet BPF paid W months earlier; 
BPF was aware of the ongoing dispute and should have contacted Mr T before 
activating the loan and making the payment;
In mid October 2022, BPF said the loan account was on hold for 30 days and it
would not request payment during this time but it went on to take steps to recover
payment; and
BPF has acknowledged that its actions adversely impacted Mr Ts credit standing - in
correspondence sent in early February 2023, BPF said it was sorry to hear that his
credit record was affected by information BPF reported.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ts complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I thought it was fair to give 
the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond before I made my final 
decision. I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2023. Ive set out what I decided 
provisionally (and why) below (I italics) and this forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that Mr T has strong feelings about what happened here. Hes gone to some
trouble to provide detailed submissions and I want to assure him, if I dont address every
point that hes raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered
everything thats been said and sent to us. Im going to concentrate however on what I think
is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. The rules of the
Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our
service, which is a free (for consumers) alternative to the courts.
Im sorry to hear that Mr T has been ill and I have sympathy for the difficulties that he and his
family have experienced during the course of this kitchen installation. In light of everything
thats gone on, I want to be clear at the outset that Im considering the complaint Mr T made
to BPF about activating the loan and reporting information on his credit record in this
decision. Its not within my remit to look at the actions of W - or at BPF, in terms of the
section 75 claim.
I think the crux of Mr Ts complaint is two-fold  he considers it was wrong of BPF to pay out 
loan funds to W in June 2022 because he hadnt confirmed that the kitchen was complete at 
that stage and he thinks it was wrong of BPF to report information on his credit record which 
adversely affected his credit rating.
Activating the loan
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement which is dated 19 August 2021 and signed
electronically by BPF. I understand Mr T has a manual copy with a different date but I dont
think thats material. Theres no suggestion that the loan terms are different between the two
documents, for example, or any indication that this isnt the loan agreement that Mr T used
to fund the relevant purchase of goods and services.
Im satisfied the loan agreement says (reasonably prominently) opposite the question how
and when the credit would be provided - we will pay the amount of the loan to the retailer
once we approve the loan and receive the signed agreement or when the supplier has
supplied the goods or services to you, if this is later. From the evidence Ive got, it looks as 
if BPF didnt activate the loan until W called for payment  which didnt happen until June 
2022, because of the ongoing dispute. Ive seen some details of the work and goods that were the subject of this dispute and the 
efforts made between the parties to resolve things. By May 2022 the kitchen seems to have 
been fitted and W had made multiple visits to rectify issues and provided several goodwill 
gestures and offers of compensation. BPF considered the resolution on offer at this point 
was reasonable and closed the section 75 complaint. I appreciate there were still some 
outstanding issues  some items still needed to be re-aligned or replaced and compensation 
hadnt been agreed - but it appears the goods and services had been supplied and W clearly 
considered it was entitled to be paid. 
I realise Mr T doesnt agree. He says the work wasnt finally completed until a few months 
later - and paperwork Ive seen suggests that the kitchen was finally signed off in 
September 2022 with the final settlement agreed by early December the same year. I accept 
some building contracts (and similar agreements) require completion to be certified in a 
specific way before payment can be made but Ive seen nothing to show that was the case 
here. The evidence Ive got suggests that W had supplied goods and services by the time 
the loan was activated in June 2022. And, taking everything Ive seen so far into account, I 
cant fairly find it was wrong of BPF to make the payment to W and ask Mr T to start 
repaying the loan. 
Mr Ts credit record
I havent seen Mr Ts credit file from the relevant time. Our investigator asked for this to be
supplied, and I understand Mr T contacted relevant credit reference agencies, but hes been
unable to provide this. On the current evidence, I cant be certain why Mr Ts credit rating
was reduced. I accept this could have been due to late payments BPF reported but I dont
think I need to reach a firm conclusion about that and Ill explain why.
For me to uphold this part of Mr Ts complaint, Id have to be satisfied that BPF did
something wrong which caused Mr T to lose out. For the reasons Ive explained above, I
dont think it was wrong of BPF to activate the loan when it did and Im satisfied that BPF
notified Mr T that repayments were due. I realise Mr T feels he shouldnt have been required
to make these payments at this time  because he was still in dispute with W - but Im afraid
that doesnt mean BPF was required to put the loan on hold.
Mr T says B sent him a letter in mid-October 2022 stating that his account was on hold and
he didnt make payments as a result. Ive seen a copy of that letter which seems to have
been sent after a family member got in touch with BPF on Mr Ts behalf about calls chasing
payment. Im satisfied that BPF said it would put the account on hold for 30 days and it
wouldnt contact Mr T requesting payment during this time. The letter went on to ask Mr T to
get in touch by 8 November 2022 - so an appropriate repayment plan could be agreed - and
the hold would be removed if BPF didnt hear from him by 11 November 2022. I think it was 
reasonable of BPF to stop chasing arrears for a time in this situation but that doesnt mean 
Mr T was no longer liable for the repayments. It looks as if he didnt agree a repayment plan 
and BPF issued a default notice on or about 11 November 2022 (which is required in certain 
circumstances under relevant legislation).
BPF was entitled to provide information about the loan to credit reference agencies (CRAs) - 
under the terms of the loan agreement Mr T signed  and its obliged to report such 
information accurately. Im satisfied that several loan repayments had fallen due and werent 
made by this stage so I cant fairly find BPF did something wrong. BPF subsequently agreed 
to remove the adverse information reported, as a goodwill gesture. I think that sounds fair 
but, for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant fairly find it was wrong of BPF to report this 
information in the first place.In light of these provisional conclusions, Im unable to hold BPF responsible for any 
associated loss and I cant reasonably require BPF to compensate Mr T or do anything 
further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments (or evidence that I havent seen before) by 14 December 2023. I said Id consider 
all the evidence available after that and make my final decision.
Both parties have now responded. BPF accepted my provisional findings and Mr T doesnt 
agree. He provided a detailed response across several emails and says, in summary:-
he wants to know why he wasnt given a copy of the finance offer when the kitchen 
order was placed; 
W told him no payment was required (aside from the initial deposit) until the kitchen 
was completed to his satisfaction and he signed off on it  and this was confirmed in 
an email from W s(in mid-Nov 2021) and verbally by a different employee;
the kitchen was delivered and installation started in September 2021 but there were 
endless problems and he was assured that W wouldnt be paid until the kitchen was 
signed off so he continued to try and resolve things with W;
the kitchen wasnt finished when the loan was activated and hadnt been signed off, 
BPF knew that and it should have listened to him as the customer and not W;
BPF agreed (in August) to put account on hold until November 2022 - when direct 
debits would resume and arrears would need to be paid - and thats what happened, 
the direct debit started 17th November and he paid off all arrears the next day;
it was unfair of BPF to report adverse information to CRAs which had (and continues 
to have) a negative impact on his credit record when hes never had financial 
problems;
he didnt say he wouldnt make payments due, he considered he wasnt liable until 
the kitchen was signed off as complete - as confirmed when he placed the order and 
later by W, both verbally and in writing; and 
hes also unhappy that compensation W paid was refunded direct instead of applied 
to reduce the loan.
Id like to thank the parties for their submissions. I want to assure Mr T that Ive considered 
what he said carefully. I think hes raised some of these points before and Ive dealt with 
them already in my provisional findings. Im afraid nothing thats been said or sent to us 
since has persuaded me to change my mind. 
For the reasons Ive given already, Im unable to reasonably find it was wrong of BPF to 
activate the loan and report to CRAs in the way that it did here. I realise Mr T feels strongly 
that it was unfair of W to seek payment when he hadnt signed off on the kitchen as 
complete. As I said above however, theres no requirement in the finance agreement for any 
formal certification of completion. I appreciate there were still some outstanding issues when 
the loan was activated but it looks as if the goods and services had been supplied.  
I cant be certain what was said when Mr T made the decision to order this kitchen or why he 
wasnt given sight of the loan terms when he placed the order. Im satisfied he received a 
copy of the finance agreement not long after however and, if he was unhappy with the terms 
- or these didnt reflect what he was told by W at the point of sale  I think it would have been reasonable to say so at the time. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr T raised any 
objections at the relevant time - and I think hes unlikely to acted any differently if hed seen 
the loan agreement on the day he placed the order. 
Mr T says W assured him, more than once, after he placed the order and took out the 
finance that payment would not be taken until he signed off on completion. Again, I cant be 
certain what was said but, even if I were to accept that W provided this assurance as Mr T 
suggests, Im unable to hold BPF responsible for statements made by W after the point of 
sale.  
Its perhaps worth reminding the parties that Im considering Mr Ts complaint against BPF 
about the loan activation and the reporting of information to CRAs in this decision. Its not 
within my remit to determine his section 75 claim against BPF - or his action against W. It 
follows, I cant fairly hold BPF responsible for the method used by W to pay compensation. 
I realise Mr T feels he shouldnt have been required to repay the finance when he was still in 
dispute with W but Im afraid that doesnt mean BPF was required to put the loan on hold. I 
think it was reasonable of BPF to stop chasing arrears when it did but Im satisfied that Mr T 
remained liable for repayments that werent made when they fell due and I cant fairly find it 
was wrong of BPF to report this on his credit file. I havent seen a copy of Mr Ts credit file 
but BPF says it has removed the adverse information reported so Im unsure why this would 
still be having a negative impact on his credit standing. If Mr T remains concerned about 
that, he may find it helpful to seek advice - and our investigator can provide more information 
about free sources of such advice if hed like this.  
For the reasons set out above, I cant reasonably require BPF to compensate Mr T or do 
anything further. I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr T and Im 
sorry if he feels let down. Hes not obliged to accept what Ive said however, in which case it 
remains open to him to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
My decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman