DRN-3704793
The complaint
Mrs L complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of a claim she made under her 
central heating breakdown policy. 
Any reference to Amtrust includes its agents, claim handlers, and contractors.
Background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 11 August 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it are set out in 
that decision. Details are below and form part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider. Neither party did so. 
What happened
Mrs L had a heating cover policy which was made up of two parts: the service contract 
relating to the initial inspection/annual boiler service part of the policy. And the insurance 
contract relating to boiler and heating breakdown cover.  
Mrs L told us her boiler was around 20 years old but it had regular services for at least the 
last four years. 
Mrs L says she had no heating or hot water and so she contacted Amtrust who sent out an 
engineer. Mrs L says the engineer told her she needed a new valve and left without repairing 
anything. 
Mrs L contacted Amtrust. This time the engineer got the hot water and heating working but 
after 24 hours the radiators stopped working again. 
Mrs L says one of the upstairs radiators expanded to four times its original size and then flew 
off the wall. She says water went downstairs, through the ceiling, and cracked the wall. The 
damage to the property was dealt with by Mrs Ls home insurance provider. 
Mrs L complained to Amtrust since she felt they were responsible for the radiator expanding 
and therefore the damage caused. 
Amtrust said the cause of the problem was the pressure release valve failing which wasnt 
something reported to them, or that they had attended to previously. Amtrust said none of 
the engineers who attended or worked on the boiler had any reason to suspect the pressure 
release valve was not working correctly. Mrs L wasnt satisfied with the response, and said 
she had to pay £4,000 for a new boiler and wants Amtrust to contribute towards that cost.
Mrs L referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things for Mrs L. But 
he didnt uphold the complaint. He said he couldnt see any evidence that Amtrust was 
responsible for the failure of the valve or expansion vessel and wouldnt have had a reason 
to carry out repairs on these parts under the contract of insurance. 
Mrs L doesnt accept the investigators assessment. She asked why the pressure valve 
wasnt checked when the issue she reported was high pressure. And so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to explain our role is to look at whether Amtrust has acted within its terms and 
conditions and treated Mrs L fairly. 
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Mrs Ls policy. The cover provides insurance 
for, the cost of repair or replacement if you suffer a breakdown or fault. Breakdown is 
defined as, the internal failure of burning out of any component part of your system whilst in 
ordinary use necessitating repair or replacement before it can resume normal operation. 
I have also considered the written records of the various engineers visits. Ive seen 
Amtrusts engineers job sheets which contain Amtrusts record of what its engineer reported 
after each visit. 
In her initial report to Amtrust Mrs L told it she had no heating or hot water. So its 
reasonable that when Amtrust attended it didnt inspect the pressure valve. The engineers 
job sheet from his attendance says, customer requires power flush and pump to be 
replaced as sludge in boiler and has damaged pump.. The heating and hot water was 
restored following this visit. So Amtrust had done what I would have expected it to. 
When the high pressure was reported an engineer attended Mrs Ls home again. At that 
stage the notes show it had been reported that some radiators were not heating and there 
was high pressure. The job sheet says, high pressure due to faulty filling loop. It goes on to 
say the expansion vessel was recharged. But due to restricted access to the filling loop the 
engineer was unable to replace it. Mrs L has disputed that access to the loop was restricted. 
The engineer was unable to replace the filling loop and, since he had been told the boiler 
was going to be replaced, he fixed the issue he was called out on, i.e. radiators not heating 
up, and didnt take any other action. 
Mrs L has asked why the pressure valve wasnt inspected by any of the agents who 
attended. It seems like it might have been a sensible thing to do and I have asked Amtrust 
for its comments on this. Amtrust has said it didnt touch the filling loop or have any reports 
from Mrs L that there was an issue with the filling loop. So it had no reason to inspect it. But 
the engineer had identified the faulty filling loop, and I dont think its reasonable to expect a 
customer to know or be aware of the specifics of a fault. 
I havent seen anything confirming any checks were carried out to ensure it was safe to use 
the boiler following Mrs Ls reports of high pressure. And given the faulty filling loop I think it 
would have been prudent to check the pressure release valve or have stopped Mrs L from 
using the boiler. I know Amtrust has said Mrs L was going to replace the boiler but even if 
that was the case it wouldnt have been an immediate replacement. And so I dont think 
Amtrust left Mrs L with a repaired boiler and heating system as per the terms of the policy. 
Mrs L has obtained a report from her own engineer who replaced her boiler for her. I have considered the report carefully. I have also considered what Mrs L has told us happened. To 
the extent that this differs from that in Amtrusts records, Amtrusts notes are very brief. We 
do, however, have two reports from after the event which indicate the cause was the faulty 
filling loop and the pressure release valve. Both of which werent checked, repaired, or 
replaced by Amtrust. And I would have expected this under the terms of the policy. 
I understand Amtrust has said it didnt touch the valve or filling loop and so cannot be held 
responsible for them being faulty. However under the terms of the policy these faults should 
have been repaired or replaced. Overall it seems to me more likely than not that had Amtrust 
repaired both of these the pressure would not have reached such a level as to blow the 
radiator off the wall. It cannot reasonably just be assumed to be a coincidence. 
So even if Amtrust didnt cause the problem by interfering with the valve and loop, it did 
leave the boiler in a state of increasingly high pressure. On a repair that had been going on 
for some time. No explanation has been given for this either. I am therefore satisfied the 
issue with the radiator was due to something done (or not done) by Amtrust and it should not 
have happened. 
I will address how I think this should be put right below. 
Replacement boiler 
Mrs L has said she wants Amtrust to contribute to the cost of replacing her boiler. However 
Mrs L was always intending to replace her boiler. And a replacement would not have been 
something she was entitled to under the terms of the policy. 
The policy says where a boiler is older than seven years Amtrust will contribute to the cost of 
the replacement only where the boiler is considered beyond reasonable repair, or the parts 
required to repair the boiler are obsolete. I havent seen anything to suggest the parts 
required were unavailable, and Amtrust didnt consider the boiler to be beyond reasonable 
repair. So I dont think its appropriate for Amtrust to pay towards the replacement. 
Insurance Excess  
I know Mrs Ls home insurance policy covered the cost of repairing the damage caused by 
the faulty boiler. And so she would have had to pay an excess on claiming on that policy. So 
I think Amtrust should refund Mrs L the cost of her excess which she has told me is £250. 
Nursery fees
Mrs L was unable to care for her grandson on a number of occasions owing to the state of 
her home. And so he attended sessions at nursery which Mrs L wants to claim for. We are 
unable to cover someone elses financial loss, as is the case here, and so I wont be 
awarding anything for this.
I can see Mrs L has suffered considerable stress and anxiety as a result of this matter.
Putting things right
Amtrust should; 
Pay Mrs L £250 for the excess she paid on her home insurance policy plus interest at 
8% simple per year from the date of loss (when she paid the excess) to the date of 
settlement. Pay Mrs L £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct Amtrust Europe Limited 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman