DRN-3229789
The complaint
Mr A, through a complaint management company (CMC), has complained about the advice 
he was given by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) to invest in the Barclays Managed 
Growth Fund Individual Savings Account (ISA). The CMC has said the advice was 
unsuitable mainly because of the level of risk his money was exposed to and also because 
he was advised to invest too much of his available capital.
What happened
In September 2000 Mr A invested £5,000 into the managed growth fund within an ISA. He 
was fifty-one years old at the time, married with no dependants. The money had come from 
a redundancy payment he had recently received of just under £10,000 in total. Mr A had 
recently started a new job and was working full time earning a modest salary. He had no 
liabilities at the time of advice except for a mortgage which had nine years left to run and he 
was an inexperienced investor. In the point of sale documents completed at the meeting 
Mr A indicated that he didnt want advice on anything other than saving for the future and 
making some capital growth.
In December 2005 he withdrew £1,500 from the ISA and ultimately surrendered the 
investment in full in November 2006 for £3,244.
The CMC has said that Mr A was a novice investor who had just been made redundant. 
While he had started a new job there was no guarantee it would work out and he would 
probably be on a probation period therefore being told to invest half of his available capital 
was unsuitable. The CMC also say that Mr A had been wrongly categorised by a medium 
risked investor. Given his age and his lack of experience and security of employment he 
should not have been exposed to 100% equities.
When Barclays investigated the complaint, it was satisfied the advice given to Mr A was 
suitable. Unhappy with this outcome the CMC referred the complaint to this service where it 
was assessed by one of our investigators. He also felt the advice Mr A had received was 
suitable for him. 
He was of the view that as Mr A had no planned expenditure, was working and his mortgage 
was his only liability investing part of the lump sum he had received was not unsuitable. He 
agreed Mr A was not an experienced investor but he also felt that as he was earning, and 
would continue to do so for roughly the next 14 years, he was in a position to make good 
capital growth on the investment and build up some savings away from this at the same 
time. He was satisfied Mr A was in the financial position to make this investment having 
around £200 a month in net disposable income. And he was satisfied with Mr As risk being 
classed at them medium level and that this would have been discussed with the adviser 
before Mr A agreed to go ahead with the investment.
The CMC disagreed with assessment remaining of the view the advice was unsuitable for 
Mr A.
So as no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding the complaint.
The key issues for me to consider are the amount Mr A was advised to invest and the how 
much risk the advice exposed him to.
Turning first to the amount invested, the CMC is correct to have concerns about Mr A being 
advised to invest over half of his available capital. As a general rule I would like to see less 
than 50% of someones available cash being invested (tied up). But the individual 
circumstances of any consumer must also be considered alongside this. 
In this case Mr As lump sum was just under £10,000 so the amounts involved are relatively 
modest. Mr A had received a one-off lump sum, so it was not something which he had been 
saving up for or building up over the years.  So, in my view it was prudent he kept some of it 
aside to use as a means of saving for the future.  Furthermore, its likely £5,000 was the 
minimum that could be invested and really whatever amount was used it had to be enough 
to have the best chance of making some growth.
Also, the advice was to invest in an ISA. This allowed Mr A to save money in a tax efficient 
way which in his position of not having any other savings behind him would have been of 
use to him.
While I appreciate Mr A wasnt in a particularly strong financial position, he was still working 
(and would be for probably the next fourteen years or so); Ss he was bringing in a regular 
income. He also had no liabilities other than a mortgage, which already had a repayment 
method well established. So I dont think being left with a smaller amount for emergencies 
was detrimental for Mr A in his given situation. I know the CMC has said Mr As new job was 
only in its early stages so couldnt be considered to be secure and that he had taken a pay 
cut, but in my view given Mr A had not been in a position to save money previously, it was 
wise for him to put some money aside from the lump sum to try to save for his future.
Turning now to the risk, I agree Mr A was an inexperienced investor, but this doesnt stop 
him from taking a medium level of risk with his investment. As already said this was a one off 
lump sum  which he had received so it was a good idea for him to invest part of it, and given 
his only objective was for savings he would have had to take some risk with his investment 
to make some growth.
In summary, I see nothing wrong with someone who had over ten years left to work with no 
liabilities other than a mortgage using an amount of a lump sum payment for the purposes of 
savings and investment. He had the time to make it back up, despite what the CMC has 
said. And being in a medium risked fund gave him the chance of growing his money. And 
while the CMC has argued that because Mr A was in a new job this wasnt secure enough 
for him to have invested over half of the lump sum received, in my view that is hypothetical 
and not conclusive enough for me to base my decision on.
Therefore, I am satisfied the advice was largely in line with Mr As objectives for investing 
and the level of risk he was exposed to was not detrimental to him.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022. 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman