DRN-2656139
The complaint
Mrs G complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has decided to settle a claim 
on her motor insurance policy by a third-party unfairly and without enough evidence. She 
says she wasnt involved in the accident claimed for. 
Mrs Gs a named driver on the insurance policy. Her car is leased to her by an organisation 
who is the policyholder. As the complaints been brought by Mrs G, Ill refer to her only. 
Any reference to RSA includes its agents. 
  
What happened
Mrs Gs motor insurance policy renewed in March 2018. In August 2019 a third-party says 
Mrs G collided with their parked car whilst reversing. So they claimed on her policy. 
From October 2019 onwards, RSA said it was corresponding with the third-partys insurers 
to get more information about the incident. RSAs notes say it asked the third-party for a 
description of the car and the driver and it continued to chase this over the following months. 
In July 2020, the third-partys solicitors sent RSA a description of the driver  including what 
she looked like, her approximate age and her name. They also provided Mrs Gs phone 
number which they say she gave at the time. The notes show they also mentioned the driver 
had told them who their vehicle was leased through and they gave a description of the car. 
Mrs G says she wasnt involved in the accident and wasnt there at the time. She says she 
doesnt match the description and the third-party couldve found her phone number online. 
In August 2020, Mrs G provided pictures of her car showing no damage so RSA decided not 
to accept the claim. But the third-partys insurer highlighted there might not have been any 
damage as there was only minimal damage to the third-partys car. Mrs G said she was 
unable to attend court to defend the claim so RSA decided to settle it. 
Mrs G then explained she was willing to attend court so RSA arranged an engineer to look at 
professional photos of her car. The engineer said the damage could be consistent with the 
accident described by the third-party. 
In October 2020, RSA told Mrs G it wouldnt be providing legal representation or defending 
the claim as it thought there was enough evidence against her. Mrs G didnt agree and 
asked it to arrange for another engineer to look at her car. In November 2020, the engineer 
said the damage was consistent with the damage to the third-partys car.
RSAs told us the claim was settled on a without prejudice basis so Mrs G could try to 
recover things herself. 
Mrs G asked our service to look into things. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as 
he thought RSA had acted fairly and had tried to investigate the incident. Mrs G didnt agree 
with our investigators opinion. So the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, RSA seems to have made a commercial decision to settle the third-partys claim 
rather than defend the matter in court which I understand Mrs G doesnt think was fair. So 
the decision for me to make is whether this was fair and reasonable.
RSA says it settled the claim as there was enough evidence against Mrs G which wouldve 
meant it couldnt successfully defend the claim in court. It says the third-party driver gave 
details of the person that hit their car which appear very similar to Mrs Gs. I appreciate 
Mrs Gs picked out specific things theyve said that she doesnt think matches her 
description. For example, she said shes skinny and not of slight build. But Im satisfied 
these mean the same thing. Shes also disagreed the description of the car matches hers 
but having looked at the make and model of her car, I dont agree. 
The third-party gave the name of the driver which was very similar to Mrs Gs. I can also see 
they gave information about the scheme which Mrs G leases her car through  as they say 
the driver gave them this information at the time. They also gave Mrs Gs correct phone 
number. Overall I accept RSAs view that the information the third-party provided closely 
matches Mrs Gs details. And I havent seen anything in this case from Mrs G to make me 
think its more unlikely she was the driver.  
I can see at the point RSA received photos from Mrs G that showed no damage, it quickly 
begun to defend the claim. So Im satisfied if there was enough evidence to defend it, it 
wouldve. But over the next few months, two engineers assessed the damage to Mrs Gs car 
and found it was consistent with the accident and the damage to the third-partys car. 
So overall, I think RSA did enough to satisfy itself it wouldnt be able to successfully defend 
the claim  and based on the evidence Ive seen, I think that was a fair decision in this case. 
Considering the amount claimed by the third-party against the likely amount going to court 
would cost, I dont think RSAs decision to settle the claim was unreasonable. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman