DRN-3848510
The complaint
Mr J complained because Santander UK plc adjusted his account, when another business 
made a mistake with a transaction.
What happened
On 12 May 2022, Santander wrote to Mr J. It told him that it had received information from 
an agent organisation. This said that on 29 April the agent had processed a £108.66 
payment to Mr J as a credit. This meant Mr Js account had been credited with £108.66 
instead of being debited.
Santander apologised, and said that in 14 days from the date of the letter, it would debit Mr 
Js account with £217.32. This was to remove the wrongly credited £108.66 and to debit the 
amount Mr J had withdrawn.
Mr J complained. On 31 May, he wrote that he had given Santander no authority to debit his 
account and had specifically instructed him not to. He said Santander hadnt provided any 
paperwork or court judgment that would allow Santander to debit his account so he 
considered Santander had stolen his £217.32. 
In its letter on 27 June, Santander asked Mr J for his version of events. It asked him whether 
he had his card; whether hed withdrawn £108.66 from his account on 29 April; whether hed 
deposited £108.66; and whether anyone else had had access to his card. It said that it could 
see that every week, Mr J received benefits, and that he withdrew that money in full from 
either a Santander branch or the agent organisation. It couldnt see any credits to Mr Js 
account made at the agent organisation. 
Santander also said that as the withdrawal had been made using Mr Js genuine card and 
PIN, it needed to know whether he had authorised it  and if he hadnt, then the card could 
be cancelled and a fraud claim investigated.
Mr J sent further complaint emails to Santander, but he didnt answer Santanders questions 
about whether hed withdrawn £108.66 on 29 April, or whether hed paid in £108.66. He said 
that as there was no longer a passbook, he couldnt be expected to know which dates or 
transactions hed carried out.
Santander issued its final response to Mr Js complaint on 15 July. This endorsed what it had 
previously said about the banks position. It also dealt with Mr Js request for the final 
response to be sent by email, and said its normal position was that it sent all email 
documents encrypted. As Mr J wasnt able to speak to Santander about his complaint over 
the phone, hed said he wanted the email unencrypted, accepting any risks. As Mr J had 
said hed be accessing the email on a public computer, Santander hadnt been able to 
consider any other arrangements.
Mr J wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said that he had no record of any 
mistake being made and no recollection of being told about a mistake at the time of the 
transaction at the agents premises. Mr J said hed checked the terms and conditions and 
these didnt say that Santander could remove his money and give it to a third party 
organisation which wasnt a bank. He said it wasnt within Santanders remit to interfere with 
a private matter between him and the agent organisation. H said that because he didnt 
remember the transaction, Santander had taken the agent organisations word as gospel. He 
was also unhappy because Santander refused to send him its final response by email.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. She said that account records showed that 
Mr J had withdrawn £105.41 every week until 22 April 2022, when it had increased to 
£108.66 weekly. Account records from April to November 2022 showed that no deposits 
were ever made to the account. Mr J had said he had no recollection of a mistake and hadnt 
been provided with any proof. The investigator said that it was most likely that Mr J knew he 
hadnt deposited money, and that the terms and conditions said that if Santander reasonably 
believed a payment had been made in error, it could take the money back. She also said 
that while this service cant comment on operating practice, and so couldnt say that 
Santander should send emails without encryption, it had offered alternatives which Mr J 
hadnt wanted to accept.
Mr J didnt accept the investigators view. He disputed many aspects of her view, including 
saying that the full terms and conditions hadnt been adhered to, and hed never been 
supplied with any evidence of the so-called mistake. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has suggested that Santander has no right to have debited the payments as it has here. 
So Ive first considered the basis on which its done so, where Mr J says he doesnt 
recognise the mistake in dispute. As Santander has mentioned, the key consideration here is 
whether it looked as if Mr J had authorised a transaction on 29 April. If he didnt, then under 
the relevant regulations, he cant be held liable for it.
Information from Santanders systems shows that a withdrawal for £108.66 was processed 
at 9:03am on 29 April. The withdrawal was processed using Mr Js genuine card, with its 
chip, and the correct PIN was entered. Mr J hadnt reported his card lost or stolen at this 
point. I cant see that he replied to Santanders question about this in its 27 June letter either. 
So the technical evidence shows a withdrawal was made using Mr Js genuine card and 
correct PIN  I cant see how any third party can have done this. Nor has Mr J said whether 
he withdrew £108.66 that day. I appreciate he said he cant remember because the account 
is no longer a passbook account. But I think its likely hed have remembered if the card had 
been lost or stolen  and as Ive said, an undisputed withdrawal took place a week later on 6 
May, so he must have had his card then.  Santander was provided with clear evidence from 
the agent that the agent had processed this transaction wrongly, and so it acted on that. 
Santander doesnt have to let Mr J see a copy of this evidence, which is confidential to its 
business. But Ive checked it, and thats what it does show.
Ive also looked at the pattern of transactions on Mr Js account. The pattern shows benefits 
being credited, and undisputed withdrawals for the full amount being withdrawn in cash 
every week. I recognise that Mr J doesnt think this pattern is determinative. But on top of the 
technical evidence that a withdrawal took place using his card and PIN, it adds to the weight 
of evidence that indicates that Mr J authorised a withdrawal here.Mr J has only said that he doesnt remember the transaction in question here. But I have to 
consider the evidence from both sides and Santanders evidence persuasively shows that 
its more likely than not that Mr J was trying to make a withdrawal rather than a deposit that 
day. Theres no evidence of a deposit being requested on its systems.
Its also unfortunate that Mr J didnt reply to any of Santanders questions about what Mr J 
did that day  whether he withdrew £108.66; whether he deposited £108.66; or whether hed 
lost his card. This lack of a response about his side of the story doesnt provide any 
information that might help his cause. 
In summary, the technical, and circumstantial, evidence makes me think its more likely than 
not that the agent organisation did make a mistake. I consider its most likely that Mr J 
withdrew £108.66 on 29 April, and didnt make a deposit for that amount. So I consider Mr 
Js account should have been debited with £108.66, not credited with this amount.
Santanders powers to correct the agents mistake 
As Ive found that Mr Js account should have shown a debit of £108.66 on 29 April, and 
instead showed a credit, Ive gone on to look at whether or not Santander had the power to 
correct this. Mr J has argued that Santander doesnt, and his dispute is with Santanders 
agent. 
First, the money in dispute wasnt Santanders agents money. It acts as an agent for 
Santander, and it was Santander with whom Mr J had his account and his contract. So his 
dispute here is with Santander  not with Santanders agent. Mr J has said that Santanders 
agent isnt a bank, so Santander didnt have the power to take back the money. But in its 
capacity here, it was acting purely as an agent of Santander. So its Santanders terms and 
conditions which apply.
Mr J would have accepted the terms and conditions of the account when he opened it. 
Section 7.5 of the terms and conditions says:
Payments made into your account in error
If a payment is made into your account by mistake, the money may be taken back out of 
your account. How and when we do this will depend on the type of payment and the reason 
for the mistake.

c) if we have incorrectly credited any payment to your account, we will take the money back 
out of your account. We do not need your permission to do so.
Mr J has argued about a number of the subsections in section 7.5, but this is the relevant 
part. It shows that Santander did have the right to take back money which its agent had 
wrongly credited. 
Mr S has argued in detail about the wording of these terms and conditions. Ive read and 
understood his submissions. But I consider that the above is the real nub of the issue  the 
agent organisation was acting as Santanders agent, and Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably to correct the agents mistake and correct Mr Js transaction. I find that 
Santander acted correctly when it:
- debited Mr Js account with the withdrawal which did take place that day, and 
- removed the deposit which there is no evidence to show took place. 
Finally, Mr J was unhappy because Santander said it wouldnt send him its final response by 
unencrypted email, because hed said hed be accessing it using a public computer. This 
service doesnt normally intervene in a banks processes, because thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But I dont think Santander acted 
unreasonably, because I can see that it offered alternatives, and that it eventually did send 
the letter by unencrypted email, on the basis that it did so at Mr Js risk.
So I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman