DRN-2961852
The complaint
Mrs K, on behalf of the estate of Mr K, complains about the decision by American 
International Group UK Limited (AIG) to turn down a personal accident claim.
What happened
Mr K held a personal accident policy with AIG. The aim of the policy was to pay benefit in the 
event of an accident which resulted in bodily injury and led to death, or other injuries covered 
by the policy.
After developing hypoxia, Mr K sadly died. Mrs K said this was caused by his lung disease. 
She thought hed developed lung disease due to his occupation. She therefore made a claim 
under the policy.
AIG turned down the claim as it didnt think Mr K had had an accident. It also said that the 
policy didnt cover sickness or disease. Unhappy with this, Mrs K brought a complaint to this 
service on behalf of Mr Ks estate.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think the 
circumstances of Mr Ks death met the policy requirements for a claim to be paid. 
Mrs K didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first of all like to extend my sympathy to Mrs K. I know it will be difficult for her to read 
about Mr Ks death, so Ill keep any references to this to a minimum.
The policy says:
If you have an accidentwhich results in you suffering bodily injury which solely and 
independently of any other cause and within 24 months of the date of the accident, causes 
death, permanent disability, full-thickness burns, fractures or specified dislocations, we will 
pay the amount shown in the table of benefits.
Accident is defined as:
A sudden, unexpected and specific event, external to the body, which occurs at an 
identifiable time and place whilst the policy is in force.
Bodily injury is defined as:
An identifiable physical injury to an insured persons body which is caused directly and 
solely by an accidentand does not result from sickness or disease.
Mrs K has provided Mr Ks death certificate, though it isnt in English, so I dont know what it 
says about his cause of death. Shes also provided his hospital treatment records, but again, 
these arent in English. Though the records do seem to make reference to Mr Ks lung 
disease.
Mrs K has explained that Mr Ks lung disease led to permanent hypoxia, and consequently 
his death. She says he developed lung disease because of his working environment where 
he was exposed to chemicals and other substances over a number of years. 
I havent seen any evidence to support why Mr K developed lung disease. Mrs K says she 
thinks his medical records ought to be analysed by a specialist in the field of pulmonology. 
However, I dont require AIG to do this, because even if I were satisfied that Mr K had 
developed lung disease in the way that she describes, this wouldnt be considered a sudden 
or specific event that was external to the body. Therefore, as our investigator has explained, 
this wouldnt fall under the policy definition of accident which means that AIG isnt required to 
pay the claim. 
Consequently, and whilst I recognise that my decision will disappoint Mrs K, I think AIG 
turned down the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K, on behalf of 
Mr Ks estate, to accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman