DRN-4221876
The complaint
Mr C complains about BISL Limited and the service they provided after he contacted them to 
make a claim on his motor insurance policy following a non-fault road traffic accident.
What happened
Mr C held a motor insurance policy which was sold, and administered, by BISL. The policy 
itself was underwritten by a separate business acting as the policy insurer, who Ill refer to as 
H.
Unfortunately, in July 2022, Mr C was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. So, he 
notified who he believed to be his insurer. But as BISL administered the policy on Hs behalf, 
Mr C spoke to BISL. And as the claim was deemed to be non-fault, BISL referred Mr C to a 
separate accident management company (AMC), who Ill refer to as E, to complete the 
repairs to his car, and provide a replacement hire car, under a separate credit agreement.
But Mr C was unhappy with the agreement put forward by E, as he didnt want to be 
potentially liable for the costs E incurred, if they were unable to claim them back from the 
third party at fault. So, he refused to authorise E to continue with the repairs. And he 
contacted BISL to make a complaint.
Mr C was unhappy that BISL were, from his perspective, refusing to repair his car without 
him entering into a credit agreement he was unhappy with. And he was unhappy with the 
delays this had caused. So, he wanted BISL to repair his car, and to compensate him for the 
upset hed been caused.
BISL responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They explained they were acting in 
their role as the broker, not the underwriter. So, they explained it wasnt their responsibility to 
repair Mr Cs car. They explained Mr C was able to sign the agreement with E to allow E to 
proceed, or that he could contact H directly to claim on his policy. So, they didnt think they 
had acted unfairly regarding this point. But they accepted a call has disconnected without Mr 
C being called back when discussing his situation and so, they paid Mr C £30 to recognise 
any upset this caused. Mr C remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think BISL had 
explained Es role, and the fact Mr C may be liable for any costs they incurred, clearly or 
reasonably on the claim notification call. Nor did they think BISL reasonably explored 
whether this referral to E was the correct decision for Mr Cs circumstances. So, they thought 
BISL should pay Mr C a further £150 to recognise the impact these failures had.
BISL accepted this recommendation. But Mr C didnt. And he maintained his unhappiness 
with BISL and their continued failure to arrange repairs to his car. Our investigator replied to 
Mr C on several occasions, explaining the options available to Mr C regarding repairs to his 
car, which including him contacting H directly to claim on his insurance policy. But Mr C 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
exactly what Ive been able to consider, and the role of each party throughout the claim 
process as I think its clear theres been some confusion regarding this.
My decision focuses solely on the actions of BISL, who were acting as the broker of the 
policy. So, they are responsible for the sale of the policy Mr C held, and its administration. 
Crucially, the policy itself is underwritten by a separate insurer, H. So, while BISL administer 
policies on behalf of H, they are not responsible for any repairs to Mr Cs car themselves, 
should Mr C want to claim on his policy directly. This would be the responsibility of H.
And in this situation, BISL initially referred Mr Cs claim to E, who are a separate accident 
management company. So, BISL arent responsible for the credit agreement put forward by 
E, or Es refusal to continue with repairs until this agreement is signed.
So, my decision centres around the service BISL provided to Mr C directly, that they are 
responsible for. And this involves the information they provided to Mr C when they initially 
referred him to E.
When considering a referral of this nature, we would expect BISL to provide Mr C with 
information that is fair, clear, and not misleading so Mr C was able to make an informed 
decision about how he wanted to proceed, and the potential ramifications of this decision. 
So, Id expect the risks of any and all options to be made reasonably clear. And Id also 
expect BISL to explore Mr Cs own individual situation, and the level of cover he held with H, 
to ensure any referral met his needs and was in his best interests.
Ive listened to the initial claim notification call, where BISL referred Mr C to E. And having 
done so, I dont think BISL made it reasonably clear to Mr C that E were a separate 
business, and that by agreeing to use their services he would be agreeing for any repairs to 
be undertaken outside of a regulated insurance contract. Nor do I think they made it 
reasonably clear to Mr C that, should E not be able to recoup their costs, Mr C would then be 
liable for these. And finally, I dont think BISL reasonably attempted to explore Mr Cs own 
individual situation, and the cover his own policy underwritten by H provided. So, I dont think 
I can say BISL acted fairly, or reasonably, when referring Mr Cs claim to E. And I think its 
reasonable for me to assume BISL dont dispute this, as they accepted this finding set out in 
our investigators initial recommendation. So, as I think BISL acted unfairly, Ive then thought 
about what I think they should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what I think BISL should do to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Mr C back in the position he wouldve been, had BISL acted fairly 
in the first place.
Had BISL acted fairly, I think BISL wouldve made it reasonably clear to Mr C the potential 
risks and ramifications of a referral to E on the initial claim notification call. And, considering Mr C refused to sign the credit agreement with E, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr 
C wouldve chosen to pursue a claim through his own insurer, H, at this point.
So, I think BISLs failures led to a delay in Mr C being aware he should instead pursue his 
claim through H, rather than E. From the timeline Ive seen, I dont think Mr C became aware 
he needed to contact H directly to claim through them until mid-August and so, I think BISL 
unreasonably delayed Mr Cs claim for around three weeks. And I dont doubt the upset and 
inconvenience this wouldve caused Mr C, whose car was awaiting repairs during this time. 
So, I think he should be compensated for this.
But I dont think it would be fair for me to hold BISL responsible for any delays after this time, 
as I think at this point, they made Mr C reasonably aware of the options available to him. 
And from what Ive seen, I cant see that Mr C chose one of the available options and I dont 
think this was something BISL were able to influence, or control.
Our investigator recommended that BISL pay Mr C an additional £150, on top of the £30 
already paid, to recognise the distress and inconvenience Ive described above. And I think 
this additional payment is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what I 
wouldve directed, had it not already put forward.
I think it fairly compensates Mr C for the delays that resulted from BISLs unclear referral, 
and any inconvenience this caused. But I think it also takes into consideration the fact Mr C 
didnt enter into the agreement with E and so wasnt placed at a financial risk he was 
unaware of. And I think it also reflects the fact that BISL appropriately set out the options 
available to Mr C after he made his concerns about the agreement with E clear.
So, I am directing BISL to pay Mr C an additional £150 compensation. Should Mr C wish to 
pursue a claim through his insurance policy and he has not done so already, he will need to 
contact his insurer, H, directly.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint about BISL Limited, and I direct 
them to take the following action:
Pay Mr C an additional £150 compensation to recognise the inconvenience he 
suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman