DRN-2649964
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society gave them incorrect information 
when they were applying for a mortgage. They are also unhappy with delays during the 
application process, due to errors by Nationwide.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, in February 2021, explaining that I wasnt inclined to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining 
why I thought this.
Mr and Mrs W applied for a mortgage with Nationwide in April 2020. They had a discussion 
with a mortgage adviser about this over the phone. The property the mortgage would be 
secured against was only registered in Mr Ws name. So as the new mortgage was to be in 
joint names, Mrs W also needed to be added to the title deeds.
Mr and Mrs W chose a mortgage with Nationwide that provided free legal services or the 
alternative of £500 cash back. Theyve said that the adviser did not explain that this free 
legal service would only relate to the mortgage and would not include updating the title 
deeds. As a result, they chose the free legal services option but later were informed theyd 
need to pay additional legal costs.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Nationwide as they thought that theyd been misled. They 
asked Nationwide to cover the legal costs involved in updating the title deed, which came to 
£294.
Nationwide said the mortgage offer provided to Mr and Mrs W made it clear that the extent of 
the free legal services was limited and wouldnt cover costs such as amending the title 
deeds. So, it didnt think it should have to meet these costs. It did however offer £50 as it felt 
the service provided during the phone conversation couldve been better, as the information 
couldve been made clearer.
The first mortgage offer issued by Nationwide included an incorrect spelling of Mrs Ws 
name. This meant that the solicitor involved had to request a replacement, delaying the 
application process. There were also further delays in relation to Nationwide not being clear, 
when asked, about when an account number needed to be generated. As a result, it offered 
a further £75 for the inconvenience caused.
 Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs W asked our service to look into their complaint. 
They said that they accepted that the mortgage offer indicated the free legal service would 
not cover the amendment to the deeds. But they said theyd relied on the information 
provided by the adviser, who had been fully aware of their circumstances. And as the 
adviser had not made it clear this wouldnt be covered, they thought it was unfair theyd 
incurred this additional cost.
Mr and Mrs W have said that they werent told, when discussing the mortgage application 
with the mortgage adviser, that the free legal service would not cover changes to the title 
deed for their property. The mortgage adviser has said that they told Mr and Mrs W only 
standard legal fees would be free and they had the option of obtaining quotes from 
elsewhere.
I think this suggest the information provided couldve been clearer. Informing a customer that 
only standard legal fees are to be free assumes some knowledge of what would be 
considered standard. Nationwide has provided evidence to indicate that a list of potential 
additional fees was available. So, this could arguably have been discussed by the mortgage 
adviser. And in its initial response to the complaint Nationwide seems to have accepted as 
much  saying the level of service couldve been better and offering £50 for the upset 
caused.
That being said the mortgage advisers role was to advise on the suitability of the mortgage 
itself, and whether this met Mr and Mrs Ws needs. The free legal service was an incentive 
accompanying the mortgage. While I wouldve expected them to have some knowledge of its 
limitations, I dont think it is reasonable to say that a mortgage adviser should provide advice 
on the level of legal services a customer would need when purchasing a property.
And I havent seen anything, in the information provided by either party, that leads me to 
think the adviser said that the cost of the title deeds would be covered by the incentive. So, I 
dont think they provided incorrect information.
 Im also conscious that, at the point of this discussion, they were only discussing making an 
application, and no commitment had been made, by either party. And after this discussion, 
but before agreeing to a mortgage, I think Mr and Mrs W were given clear information that 
some of the legal work would not be covered by this incentive.
Ive seen copies of correspondence that the solicitor, appointed under the free legal service, 
then sent to Mr and Mrs W a few days after the discussion with the adviser. The first letter 
dated 21 April 2020 explains that The mortgage you have selected allows for the standard 
legal fees to be paid by your Lender. However, if any additional work is required over and 
above that needed for a standard remortgage an additional charge will be payable. So, I 
think this was clear that other fees mayve been payable.
And Ive seen a copy of a further letter sent, the next day, confirming there would be 
additional fees in relation to the transfer of the property into joint names, and that the cost of 
this would be £294. And Ive seen evidence Mr W responded to this, on the same day, 
outlining that he and Mrs W actually had additional requirements in relation to the ownership 
of the property. So, at that point Im satisfied it had been made clear to Mr and Mrs W that 
there would be fees over and above the free legal service.
This correspondence appears to have all been before a mortgage offer had been issued. So, 
Mr and Mrs W, being aware of this information, couldve chosen to withdraw or requested 
the alternative incentive of £500 at that stage.
As no objection was raised, a mortgage offer was then provided by Nationwide. This again 
reiterated information about the free legal service  specifically that it would only cover 
standard work. It explained that other charges may be payable, such as for sorting issues 
with the title or adding a party. Mr and Mrs W have acknowledged in their complaint that this 
information was presented to them, but they said they shouldnt be expected to check every 
detail against the advice they were given. While they might not have been expected to check 
every term, given the significance of the transaction involved  taking a mortgage secured 
against their home  I think it is reasonable to expect them to have reviewed the terms of 
that mortgage. And, as they themselves acknowledge, these terms were clear about the 
limitations of the free legal service.But in any event, as Ive already explained, theyd been sent information by the solicitor, 
prior to this, confirming an additional charge would be payable. So even without the 
mortgage offer, I think theyd been provided with clear information that the change to the title 
deed required wouldnt be covered by the free legal service. And even if they had been given 
incorrect advice to begin with, and for the avoidance of doubt I dont think they were, they 
had clear information available to them to allow them to make an informed decision before 
proceeding.
Having been provided this information, Mr and Mrs W proceeded with the mortgage on the 
original basis. Theyve said that to request an amendment at that point wouldve caused a 
delay as some work had already been done. And this mayve been true. But ultimately, they 
chose to proceed, accepting theyd be responsible for the costs over and above the free 
service, which, by that point, theyd been informed of. And I think they did so, having been 
fully and clearly informed of the position.
So, even though I accept that its likely clearer information couldve been provided earlier by 
the mortgage adviser, as Mr and Mrs W were given clear information about the costs, and 
chose to proceed on this basis, I dont think itd be reasonable to ask Nationwide to cover 
these costs. And in the circumstances, I think the £50 offered by Nationwide in respect of 
this is fair.
 Turning to the other administrative issues, Nationwide accepted that there was an error with 
the spelling of the names on the initial mortgage offer. The evidence Ive seen indicates that 
this was rectified in a matter of days. And I think this is fair. There was also some confusion 
between Nationwide and the solicitors around when an account number would be generated. 
I can see that this resulted in Mr W having to speak to Nationwide on the phone a couple of 
times. And Nationwide has acknowledged that clearer information couldve been provided 
sooner, which mightve prevented the need for these calls. It paid a further £75 in respect of 
the inconvenience these issues caused. And in the circumstances, I think that is fair. So, I 
dont think I can reasonably require Nationwide to do any more.
responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Nationwide said it had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs W confirmed theyd received my provisional findings and said, while they were 
disappointed, they too had no further comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything again, and as neither party had anything further to add, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the same reasons given in 
those findings, and summarised above, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I think 
the offers made previously by Nationwide in respect of this complaint are fair and I dont 
think it should be required to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman