DRN-3993959
The complaint
Mr J, on behalf of Mrs J, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has not effectively safeguarded 
Mrs J, which has led to thousands of pounds leaving her account. 
What happened
Mrs J holds multiple accounts with Lloyds. Mr J, her son, has had a Power of Attorney over 
her financial affairs registered with the Office of the Public Guardian since 2014. This was 
registered with Lloyds in around April or May 2021. 
It was at that point that Mr J requested statements for Mrs Js accounts. There were issues 
with the statements being received as they were initially sent to another individual and when 
they were sent to Mr J, the envelope was not fully sealed. Both of these incidents were due 
to human error and Mr J was sent £850 compensation in recognition of this. I note Mr J has 
said he has not yet cashed this cheque. 
When Mr J received the statements he was surprised to see very high numbers of 
transactions to various mobile game platforms which amounted to tens of thousands of 
pounds. And there were a high number of payments to computer security companies each 
month. Mr J explained that Mrs J was vulnerable and has had mental health issues and 
general health issues since 2015, though later added it could be as far back as 2013. He felt 
that as a vulnerable customer, Lloyds should have noticed the pattern of spending and done 
more to safeguard her against this.
Lloyds issued a final response letter in which it explained that prior to the Power of Attorney 
being registered on the account in April/May 2021, Lloyds had no indication that Mrs J was 
vulnerable. Because of this, they were unable to treat her differently because of her 
vulnerability. So, they did not agree that they should have stepped in sooner. The complaint 
was referred to our service.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt that Lloyds could not have done more to 
determine that Mrs J was vulnerable earlier. They felt that there was no indication on the 
credit card account that Mrs J was struggling to maintain it, so it was reasonable that the 
limit was not reduced sooner. And they felt that even if Lloyds had flagged the pattern of 
spending, its more likely they would have asked if the payments were genuine and that   
Mrs J would have confirmed they were. So they did not agree that Lloyds had made an error 
in the circumstances. 
Mr J disagreed with this. He highlighted that Mrs J had repeatedly denied playing mobile 
phone games so questioned if the payments were genuinely made by her. He felt that it was 
clear that when Mrs J retired, her income reduced significantly and so it should have been 
clear she was overspending. And he pointed out that it was not her fault that the games were 
designed to be addictive and to target vulnerable people. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. And I dont think 
Lloyds needs to take any further action to remedy the complaint. Ill explain why in more 
detail.
Mr J has highlighted that Mrs J denies playing mobile phone games which has made him 
question if she carried out the transactions herself. Without testimony from herself, Ive had 
to rely on the evidence available to me. 
In order for a third-party to fraudulently carry out the transactions over the course of over ten 
years, they would have had to consistently obtain her new credit card details each time she 
had a replacement card and then made the transactions without Mrs J being aware of the 
spending. On balance, I think this is unlikely. And I note that Mrs J appears to have made 
payments to the credit card account in line with the spending, so I think its more likely she 
was aware of the transactions. And I therefore think its more likely she carried them out 
herself. 
As set out in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of 
the account, as I think its more likely Mrs J made or otherwise authorised the transactions 
herself, she is therefore liable for them. However, Mr J feels that as Lloyds have an 
obligation to flag any transactions that appear to be unusual or potentially suspicious, they 
therefore should have flagged the transactions in question. 
Looking at the statements for Mrs Js credit card account, the majority of the payments were 
relatively low, however, there were large quantities of transactions occurring. This alone 
does not necessarily indicate possible fraud however and does not necessarily warrant a 
conversation with the consumer. However, even if I were to agree that Lloyds should have 
contacted Mrs J in relation to the payments, I have to then consider if anything would have 
changed following the conversation. As I think its more likely she authorised the transactions 
herself, I think its more likely she would have confirmed the payments were genuine and 
approved them. Because of this, I dont think any possible error in Lloyds contact with Mrs J 
has made a material difference to the activity on the credit card account. 
I appreciate that Mr J feels a conversation with Mrs J would have revealed that she was 
vulnerable but I also have to consider that during later phone calls about a fraud claim, 
Lloyds did not identify that Mrs J was vulnerable. Because of this, I think its unlikely her 
vulnerability would have been discovered during a routine phone call about the transactions. 
Mr J has said Mrs Js vulnerability can be traced back to 2013. However, looking at Lloyds 
actions specifically, theres no indication that they were made aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware that Mrs J was vulnerable until the family told them in April 2021. So I dont 
think its reasonable to expect them to have treated Mrs J differently as a result. I also have 
to consider that the gaming transactions did occur prior to 2013 and can be seen in 2010, 
2011 and 2012  before her vulnerability started. So I think this was an established pattern 
of spending on her account prior to that point. Though I do appreciate the spending 
increased in later years.
Mr J has also highlighted payments going to computer software companies who normally 
specialise in anti-virus software. I accept that the number of transactions were unusual in the context that they would normally be monthly or annual to one company, whereas Mrs J had 
multiple transactions going to multiple companies. However, in the context of her account as 
a whole, they werent particularly unusual or out of the ordinary. Because of this I dont think 
it is unreasonable that they did not flag on Lloyds system as potentially suspicious.
Mr J has questioned the affordability of the credit card following a decline in Mrs Js earnings 
when she retired. Mrs J had already had the credit card for some time when this occurred. 
As she already had the credit card account and her affordability for the limit had been 
assessed when it was taken out, there was no reason for Lloyds to re-assess the 
affordability of the account unless there were signs of Mrs J struggling financially. However, 
aside from Mrs J exceeding her limit once, she was able to maintain her monthly payments 
as normal, despite the change in income and her continued spending on the card. 
I appreciate Mr J has said the reason Mrs J was able to maintain payments is because the 
family stepped in to help, but Lloyds would not have been aware of this and they could only 
rely on the way the credit card account was managed. As Lloyds had no reason to think that 
Mrs J was struggling due to the fact that she was able to maintain the credit card account 
despite her change in circumstances, I cant agree they have made an error in the 
circumstances. 
Mr J has said that Mrs J is not at fault due to the addictive nature of mobile phone games. I 
want to make it clear that my role here is to assess the actions of Lloyds and not that of    
Mrs J or the games companies. Having done so, I do not direct Lloyds to take any further 
action to remedy this complaint. 
I note Mr J has said he has not cashed in the cheque for £850 compensation that relates to 
the initial issues he faced when trying to get hold of the statements for Mrs Js account. If 
this has now expired, Mr J should contact Lloyds directly to arrange for a new cheque to be 
sent to him.  
My final decision
I do not direct Lloyds Bank PLC to take any further action on Mrs Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman