DRN-3195263
The complaint
Mr L complained that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr L took out six loans with Mr Lender as follows:
Loan
Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 03/08/2016 31/01/2017 6 £250.00 £95.66
2 31/01/2017 23/02/2017 6 £250.00 £97.66
3 02/03/2017 01/10/2017 6 £350.00 £139.53
4 02/10/2017 05/01/2018 6 £350.00 £139.53
5 11/01/2018 01/05/2018 6 £200.00 £69.73
6 01/05/2018 outstanding 12 £1,500.00 £327.50
Mr L said that these were unaffordable payday loans he shouldnt have been given. 
When he complained to Mr Lender it said that after retrospectively reviewing his account it 
believed that it could have done more checks before lending loans 4,5 and 6. Mr Lender 
didnt know what those checks mightve shown at the time. So it offered to partially uphold 
Mr Ls complaint and pay redress in respect of loans 4, 5 and 6 that was in line with what we 
would recommend a lender to do if we were upholding a complaint.
Mr L didnt feel this offer went far enough and he brought his complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator thought that Mr Lender hadnt done anything wrong when it provided loans 1-3 
and that its offer in respect of loans 4-6 was fair. So she didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L disagreed with our adjudicators view and so his complaint comes to me to decide. He 
mainly feels that Mr Lender should have checked his bank statements before providing any 
of these loans and had it done so it would have seen that he was spending excessively on 
gambling and already paying four other payday loans  so it should have realised the loans it 
provided wouldnt be sustainably affordable for him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. Having carefully thought about everything Ive 
seen and been told Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr Lender provided Mr L with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Mr Lender 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Mr Lender was required to 
carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was 
sustainable for Mr L before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Keeping all this in mind, Ive thought carefully about what it means for Mr Ls complaint.
Mr Lender has already agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to 
loans 4,5 and 6 and to amend Mr Ls credit file by removing all the loans from his credit 
record once he has settled the outstanding balance. This means that Mr L wont pay any 
interest or charges towards these loans and he will receive back everything he has paid over 
and above the principal amounts borrowed  with interest at the statutory rate. Mr Lender will 
apply the amount it is refunding to reduce the balance owing on loan 6. That all seems fair to 
me and it is in line with what we would expect a lender to do in these circumstances. So I 
havent considered these loans further.
If Mr L hasnt yet done so and he would like to take up this offer (which I understand Mr 
Lender has confirmed is still open to him to accept) then he should contact Mr Lender direct 
to make the arrangements.
Like our adjudicator, Ive concentrated on looking into loans 1,2 and 3.
Mr Lender says that, as well as relying on information Mr L provided about his monthly 
income and expenditure, it also looked at details held by credit reference agencies before it 
agreed to lend to Mr L. And it believed that the information it had recorded for Mr L showed 
the loans shouldve been affordable for him.Mr L feels strongly that proper checks shouldve made Mr Lender realise he couldnt afford 
further loans. 
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Mr Lender, at this early stage, Mr L didn't have any track 
record with the lender that shouldve alerted Mr Lender to any underlying money problems. 
The information Mr Lender had gathered about Mr Ls finances suggested that he shouldve 
been able to afford to make the monthly repayments on this loan out of his disposable 
income according to the figures Mr L had declared. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr L provided or the other information 
Mr Lender had recorded, which meant that Mr Lender shouldve taken more steps to check 
the information Mr L had declared. Whilst Mr Lender was aware that Mr L was paying an 
amount towards other active credit he had taken out, I think its fair to say that borrowers 
applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an 
impaired credit history. Mr L hadnt told Mr Lender about anything that Id expect a lender to 
be unduly concerned about at this stage. It was early in the lending relationship and I think 
the checks were enough for Mr Lender to agree to lend. 
loan 2
I can see that Mr L took out loan 2 at the same time as he paid loan 1 early. I've taken into 
account that he borrowed the same amount again and kept in mind that this was his second 
loan from Mr Lender in just five months or so. But I dont think these things were enough to 
make Mr Lender think that Mr L was becoming increasingly indebted or struggling with being 
over stretched financially.
I think its reasonable to say that loan 2 looked to be comfortably affordable for Mr L. He 
hadnt shown Mr Lender any signs that he had found it hard to pay for his borrowing when 
he had loan 1 and his monthly repayments for this loan were broadly the same amount. The 
figures hed declared and the information Mr Lender had collected seem to support 
Mr Lenders lending decision. And I think it was too soon for Mr Lender reasonably to be 
able to identify any particular pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr L was over-
reliant on this type of borrowing or not using the money it lent for its intended purpose of 
providing short-term financial help.
loan 3
There was a gap of a week or so in-between Mr L repaying loan 2 (ahead of time) and taking 
out loan 3. The figures he had declared and the information Mr Lender had gathered all 
seem to me to support its lending decision. Mr Lender had asked some additional questions 
to try to understand why he needed the loan and I think its fair to say that Mr L gave a 
plausible reason for needing the money to cover a one-off extra cost when his disposable 
income had already been spent elsewhere. I cant fairly say that the affordability assessment 
Mr Lender did suggested that there was any reason to think that the loan wouldnt be 
sustainably affordable for Mr L or that his pattern of lending was a cause for concern at this 
stage. 
To sum up, I appreciate that Mr L feels that Mr Lender didn't do all the checks he thinks it 
shouldve done before agreeing to lend to him. But at this stage of the lending relationship, 
and given these loan amounts and the relatively short loan terms, I dont think proportionate 
checks wouldve required Mr Lender to ask Mr L to prove what he was declaring or check 
other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his 
financial circumstances. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to lend without making any more detailed enquiries into his circumstances as there wasnt anything obvious, 
in the information it had, to suggest Mr L wouldnt be able sustainably to repay the loan. And 
I think the information it had gathered supported the lending decisions it made.
This means that I wouldnt have expected Mr Lender to have asked to see the bank 
statements that Mr L has sent us before making its lending decision. 
Im very sorry that Mr L had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments hed 
signed up to was difficult for him. I accept that Mr Ls financial situation possibly wasnt fully 
reflected either in the information he provided or the other information Mr Lender obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think that Mr Lender did anything wrong 
in deciding to lend to Mr L. So I cant fairly say that Mr Lender shouldnt have provided 
loans 1-3 and thats why Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
If Mr L would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get free 
debt advice and other help on our website  or we can provide him with useful contact 
details if he gives us a call. 
I hope that setting out my reasons as I've done helps explain why Ive reached these 
conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman