DRN-4294406
The complaint
Mrs H complains about ETU Forsikring A/S (ETU) declining a claim under her pet insurance 
policy for treatment of her dog. 
References to ETU include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In June 2022 Mrs H noticed a swelling on the paw of her dog (left metacarpus1) and the dog 
showed lameness. She took the dog to a vet, who recommended an x-ray to investigate the 
swelling. The x-ray was carried out in August 2022 and Mrs H submitted a claim for the cost 
of treatment (£890.61). 
However, while ETU said they would accept part of the claim (£143.57), they wouldnt accept 
the rest of the claim (for lameness) as review of the dogs clinical history submitted with the 
claim indicated a previous claim in December 2019 for swelling around the carpal 
metacarpal joint. They said it showed the dog had a pre-existing condition, before the policy 
was taken out (February 2020). Pre-existing conditions werent covered under the policy 
(ETU referred to the policy wording excluding claims for a pre-existing condition). 
Mrs H was unhappy about ETUs decline of part of her claim, so complained to ETU. ETU 
didnt issue a final response within the eight-week period within which businesses should 
respond to consumer complaints, so Mrs H complained to this service. She was unhappy at 
ETU declining part of the claim for treatment of her dog. Shed been affected financially and 
emotionally by what had happened. She wanted ETU to accept her claim and pay 
compensation.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint. From the evidence and information available, 
including the clinical notes and the views of Mrs Hs vet, it wasnt clear whether the recent 
claim for lameness was linked to the previous treatment (which the vet said related to the 
lateral aspect of the carpus). Whereas the recent issue was with the caudal aspect. As ETU 
had accepted elements of the claim relating to a lump on the dogs paw, they should also 
cover the cost of the x-rays (which the vet deemed necessary treatment)) and any 
associated costs.
ETU disagreed with the investigators conclusions. They said the x-rays were carried out as 
part of the claim element for lameness, which theyd declined as a pre-existing condition. 
And they didnt think the x-rays would have been required as treatment for the lump, so they 
wouldnt cover the cost under that part of the claim (which they had accepted).
Our investigator clarified with Mrs Hs vet the x-rays were taken to investigate the lump (the 
swelling) to rule out the possibility it was linked to any underlying bone of joint changes.
1 The metacarpus is a group of five bones on the forelimb of a dog that connect the wrist (the carpus) to the 
toes (the phalanges). Source: Manchester Veterinary Specialists (www.mvsvets.co.uk)
ETU maintained their disagreement with the investigators conclusions, referring to the 
clinical notes referring to pea size lump, poss cyst, which they thought wouldnt require x-
rays. And the claim indicated seven x-rays were taken, which would indicate they were for 
the lameness issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether ETU have acted fairly towards Mrs H. 
The key issue in Mrs Hs complaint is whether ETU acted fairly in declining her claim for 
treatment of her dog. ETUs view (as set out in their decline of part of the claim and 
response to our investigators view) is that they correctly declined that part of the claim 
relating to lameness (though they accepted that part relating to the lump) on the grounds the 
dogs clinical history indicated a pre-existing condition (lameness). As a pre-existing 
condition, it was excluded from cover under the policy. Mrs Hs view is that the previous 
treatment isnt related to the current claim. And her vet has stated the x-rays were necessary 
as part of the treatment of the lump (to determine whether it was linked to underlying bone or 
joint changes).
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by ETU) together with the supporting information and 
evidence, including the clinical history of Mrs Hs dog. In their decline of the claim, ETU refer 
to the following policy wording under the What is not covered in the Veterinary Fees section:
2 The cost of any treatment or claim for a pre-existing condition.
ETU also refer to the policy definition of a pre-existing condition:
any injury or illness that:
a. Happened or first showed clinical signs.
b. Has been identified or investigated by a vet,
c. Has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an injury, illness, or clinical sign your 
pet had,
d. Is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, illness, or clinical sign your pet 
had,
Or is otherwise known to you before the start date of your pets first period of 
insurance (inception) or before the date the cover level on your policy was increased.
No matter where the injury, illness or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, 
your pets body.
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically, lameness (given ETU cited this as the reason for their decline of part of the 
claim). Looking at the clinical notes for December 2019 (the specific reference mentioned by 
ETU when declining the claim) there is reference to swelling around the carpal metacarpal 
joint. The notes also indicate x-rays were taken as part of the treatment. I cant see specific 
reference to lameness, though mention is made of arthropathy. This is a joint disease, the 
signs of which in dogs include joint swelling and lameness (from publicly available 
information Ive seen). So, its reasonable the symptoms may have included lameness. 
Looking at the clinical notes from the visit to the vet in August 2022, theres clear reference 
to [intermittent] lameness. So, I think its reasonable to conclude  looking at the policy definition above  there were elements of the second (2022) claim for lameness that would 
have reasonably considered to be a pre-existing condition. Specifically points a. to c. in the 
above definition.
However, ETU accepted that part of the claim relating to the lump (swelling) was covered. 
But they dispute the x-rays should be included within that element of treatment. 
Going back to the clinical notes from August 2022, theres reference to a lump on the back of 
the metacarpal region. The notes also refer to the vet advising x-rays on that region (and 
higher up the limb to determine the possible presence of something there). The notes go on 
to refer to x-rays mainly taken on the carpal/metacarpal region to investigate the swelling 
behind the metacarpus. Taken together with the views expressed by Mrs Hs vet, Ive 
concluded its reasonable to conclude the x-rays were taken for the purpose of investigation 
(treatment) of the lump. 
Taken with ETUs acceptance of that part of the claim for treatment of the lump, Ive 
concluded ETU havent acted reasonably in declining that part of the claim for the x-rays 
(and associated costs).
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what ETU need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think theyve acted reasonably in declining that part of the claim for the x-rays (and 
associated costs) then they should accept that part of the claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the costs of treatment (as 
appropriate). They should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount accepted, 
from the date Mrs H paid the vets bill, to the date they settle the claim (subject to Mrs H 
evidencing payment of the bill).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I require 
ETU Forsikring A/S to:
accept that part of the claim for the x-rays (and associated costs) in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the costs of 
treatment (as appropriate). 
ETU Forsikring A/S should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount accepted 
from the date Mrs H paid the vets bill to the date they settle the claim (subject to Mrs H 
evidencing payment of the bill).
If ETU Forsikring A/S consider theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs H how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman