DRN-2556017
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) unfairly declined her 
claim against her motor insurance policy following fire damage to her car. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs Ks car started smoking and eventually caught fire. The fire put the car 
beyond economic repair. She believes a flammable object such as a piece of wood caused 
the fire inside the vehicle. So she made a claim on her motor insurance policy with Skyfire.
Skyfire asked an independent engineering company to complete an inspection of the car and 
provide a report on their findings. Based on the inspection, the engineer felt that the fire had 
been caused by an internal engine failure/fault. So Skyfire refused Mrs Ks claim. They said 
that the damage was caused by a mechanical or electrical issue, which isnt covered under 
Mrs Ks policy. 
Skyfire did cover various other expenses relating to the claim. 
When Mrs Ks car was returned from inspection, she noticed the seats were damp. Skyfire 
offered to pay for car to be cleaned as they couldnt be sure who was responsible for the 
window being left open. 
Mrs K doesnt agree that the fire damage was caused by mechanical failure. So she 
complained to this service. She wants Skyfire to pay her the market value of her car and to 
refund half of her insurance premium. 
Our investigator didnt think that Skyfire had treated Mrs K unfairly in declining the fire 
damage claim. She said that Mrs Ks policy doesnt cover damage caused by mechanical 
failure and that Skyfire was entitled to rely on the engineers report. 
Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator. She didnt feel it was fair for an engineer who she 
felt worked for Skyfire to decide on the cause of the fire. So the complaint was passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central issue is whether Skyfire treated Mrs K unfairly in declining her claim for fire 
damage. I dont think they did.  Ill explain why. 
The declined fire claim
The starting point is Mrs Ks policy, which doesnt cover wear and tear and mechanical 
damage. Skyfire said that the damage to Mrs Ks car was caused by mechanical failure. In 
reaching that view, they relied on an independent engineers report. I think that was a 
reasonable approach. 
The engineer said that the engine was already damaged. He felt that this led to expelled 
engine lubricant being ignited on the hot exhaust. He explained that this happened because 
the coolant and lubricant was below the manufacturers recommended level. 
But Mrs K feels that the visual inspection carried out by the engineer wasnt detailed enough 
to correctly confirm the cause of the fire. She says that the car was checked before the 
journey and the lubricant/coolant were at the right level. She also says that her car mechanic 
believes that something like a stone or piece of wood hit the sump and caused the fire. But 
she hasnt provided anything in writing from her mechanic.
The evidence the engineer relied on suggests the coolant was below the manufacturer's
recommended level when it broke down. He confirmed there was no reading on the lubricant
stick. Its possible that the lubricant levels were fine at the start of the journey, but that a 
mechanical failure occurred during the journey. 
Our investigator asked Skyfire if the damage couldve been caused in the way Mrs K 
suggested. She was told that the car is fitted with climate control, so the coolant radiator sits 
behind the Air Conditioning condenser. Any foreign object would hit the condenser first and 
the coolant radiator would be protected from damage. So even if something had entered the 
car through an opening, it wouldnt be possible for it to damage the parts that were damaged 
in Mrs Ks car.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I believe its more likely there was existing mechanical
damage which was the cause of the fire. 
Having read the report produced by the engineer, I consider that it contains the amount of 
detail I would expect to see. I dont think Skyfire should commission a further report before 
coming to their decision. They said that they would consider any report Mrs K provided 
which showed that the damage was accident related. I think that was fair. 
Refund from the policy cancellation
In their final response letter, Skyfire initially told Mrs K that as theyd incurred costs relating 
to her claim, it would be recorded as a fault claim. This would affect her No Claims Discount. 
They explained that if she decided to cancel her policy within the policy year, she wouldnt 
receive a refund. But that if Mrs K paid the total claim costs herself, she would be able to 
cancel her policy for a partial refund, her No Claims Discount wouldnt be affected, and she 
wouldnt need to disclose the claim in future. This is all in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
I note that Skyfire have now confirmed that Mrs K's claim has been closed with her No 
Claims Discount allowed. Theyve noted that Mrs K didnt cancel her policy and so it lapsed 
on 4 March 2020. Theyve said that as long as the vehicle wasnt used, they can look to 
backdate her policy and provide a refund to cancel her policy. 
Im satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable approach for Skyfire to take. So I wont be 
asking them to do any more than theyve offered to do in respect of the policy cancellation 
refund.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K but, considering everything, I dont think that Skyfire was at 
fault in declining her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman