DRN-3536433
The complaint
Mrs R complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited decline her claim against her medical 
insurance policy. Mr W, a broker, is assisting Mrs R in bringing her complaint.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs R has private medical insurance underwritten by AXA.          
She has endometriosis and sometime before the inception of her policy with AXA she 
had a coil fitted in order to alleviate her symptoms. There were difficulties removing the 
coil. Mrs R arranged for a hysteroscopy procedure under local anaesthetic to remove the 
coil but that wasnt effective as the coil had become embedded. In July 2021, she made 
a claim against her policy in relation to a further procedure under general anaesthetic to 
remove the coil. 
AXA declined the claim. It said initially that contraception was excluded in the policy.   
Mrs R explained that the coil wasnt for contraception but for treatment of her 
endometriosis symptoms. AXA said that Mrs Rs membership didnt cover long term 
treatment of chronic conditions and the insertion or removal of a coil was for temporary 
relief of symptoms  it didnt cure the condition. 
Mrs R self-funded the procedure she required. Subsequently, she complained to AXA. 
She says that her claim isnt for the chronic condition of endometriosis but for removal of 
a coil. In addition, she says that her claim is covered under the provision which provides 
for flare-ups of a chronic condition. Mrs R says that shes entitled to rely on the wording 
of her policy, which doesnt give AXA any basis on which to decline her claim. She wants 
AXA to reimburse her for the medical bills shes paid. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
treated Mrs R unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that AXAs notes show 
that when Mrs R called to make her claim, she said that the coil was fitted primarily to 
control symptoms of endometriosis but also for contraception. He said that, in any event, 
the policy doesnt cover chronic conditions unless theres a flare-up of a chronic 
condition, which isnt the case here. The investigator said that Mrs Rs policy doesnt 
cover further treatment resulting from or connected with treatment that isnt covered 
under the policy. He also mentioned the exclusion relating to pre-existing conditions. 
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. Mr W responded on her behalf and said, in 
summary: 
Mrs Rs policy isnt underwritten on a moratorium basis. 
The coil wasnt for contraception; it was solely to alleviate symptoms of 
endometriosis.
If a medical procedure has a Clinical Coding & Schedule Development (CCSD) 
code its for an acute condition and a claim in relation to it cant be declined 
under the chronic condition exclusion. 
Other insurers have confirmed that they would have covered Mrs Rs claim. 
AXA declined an eligible claim for spurious reasons and acted unfairly in doing 
so. 
The investigator considered what had been said but didnt change his view. He said that 
only the exclusion in relation to chronic conditions applies here and that AXA acted fairly 
in relying on that. 
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. Mr W responded on her behalf and said, in 
summary:
In the investigators first view, he said that AXA declined the claim as it was for 
treatment of a pre-existing condition. 
Not all treatment for chronic conditions is excluded under the policy.
Other insurers comments are relevant in determining a fair outcome as the policy 
term in question is the same with other insurers. 
Mrs Rs claim comes within the scope of cover and theres no reason for AXA to 
decline it. 
AXA hasnt told Mrs R that her endometriosis is a chronic condition. 
Mr W, on Mrs Rs behalf, asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mrs R has strong feelings about this matter. Mr W, 
on her behalf, has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through 
all this carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that      
Mrs R wont take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think is the central issue in the 
case, that is whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in declining her claim on the basis that 
it was for treatment of a chronic condition.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
3.5 > How your membership works with conditions that last a long time or come back 
(chronic conditions)
Like most health insurance, your membership is designed to cover unexpected illness and
conditions that respond quickly to treatment (acute conditions). This means that it may notcover you for treatment of conditions that are likely to last a longer time or come back 
(chronic conditions). However, there are particular situations where we can cover 
treatment for these kinds of conditions.
Does my membership cover me for treatment of conditions that last a long time or 
come back (chronic conditions)?
Your membership does not cover you for conditions that:
come back (recur); or
are likely to continue for a while; or
are long-term.
However, your membership will cover short-term in-patient treatment of flare-ups of a 
chronic condition  that is, unexpected complications or worsening of a chronic 
condition.
Because we dont cover ongoing, recurring long-term treatment for chronic conditions, 
this means we will not cover:
monitoring a medical condition; 
any treatment that only offers temporary relief of your symptoms, rather than dealing 
with the underlying condition; or
routine follow-up consultations.
[]
What are acute conditions and chronic conditions?
Like most health insurers, we use the Association of British Insurers definitions for these.
Acute condition
An acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to 
treatment that aims to return you to the state of health you were in immediately before 
suffering the disease, illness or injury, or that leads to your full recovery.
Chronic condition
A chronic condition is a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following
characteristics:
It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations,  
check-ups or tests.
It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms.
It requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it.
It continues indefinitely.
It has no known cure.
It comes back or is likely to come back.
Your cover for specific conditions, treatment, tests and costs
[]
4.5
 > Consequences of previous treatment, medical or surgical intervention or body 
modification
If you had treatment, medical or surgical intervention or body modification previously that 
would not be covered by your membership, we do not cover further treatment or increased 
treatment costs that are:
a result of the treatment, medical or surgical intervention or body modification you 
had previously or
connected with the treatment, medical or surgical intervention or body modification 
you had previously.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                Mrs Rs complaint because I dont think that AXA treated her unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Before I proceed further, Ill address two issues which I think have caused 
confusion: the reason Mrs R had the coil fitted and the basis of the underwriting of 
her policy. 
I accept that Mrs R had the coil fitted in order to alleviate symptoms of 
endometriosis and not for contraception. Mrs R has provided evidence from a 
consultant gynaecologist which says that she had her fallopian tubes removed in 
2002. AXAs notes of Mrs Rs phone call in July 2021 indicate that Mrs R said she 
had the coil for contraception and for treatment of endometriosis. I think its unlikely 
that Mrs R said that, as I think its reasonable to conclude she knew that she didnt 
need contraception. Mrs R says that she made general comments about the use of 
the coil for contraception, as the representative with whom she spoke didnt seem 
familiar with it. I havent asked AXA to provide the recording of the phone call, as it 
wouldnt alter the outcome of the complaint, but Im satisfied that Mrs R had the coil 
for treatment of symptoms of endometriosis only.  
     
Mrs Rs policy in on a continued medical exclusion underwriting basis. A two year 
moratorium started on 1 October 2014. So, from October 2016, AXA would cover 
any pre-existing conditions to the extent they were previously covered or 
disregarded altogether. AXA didnt decline Mrs Rs claim on the basis of it being for 
a pre-existing condition, so I dont need to address this further. 
Subject to the policy terms, Mrs Rs policy covers eligible treatment of an acute 
condition. An acute condition is a disease, illness, or injury thats likely to respond 
quickly to treatment which aims to return Mrs R to the state of health she was in 
immediately before suffering the disease, illness, or injury or that leads to full 
recovery.   
I dont think its in dispute that endometriosis is a chronic condition. It needs 
ongoing monitoring and relief of symptoms and it recurs or is likely to recur. So, 
cover for treatment of endometriosis is limited under Mrs Rs policy. I dont think it 
was necessary for AXA to tell Mrs R at the outset that it considered endometriosis 
a chronic condition. I think its reasonable for AXA to deal with claims as they arise. 
The policy provides for short-term, in-patient treatment of flare-ups of a 
chronic condition  that is, unexpected complications or worsening of a chronic 
condition. Ive seen nothing to indicate that the treatment Mrs R required and 
which led to her claim was because of a flare up of her endometriosis. 
The treatment which led to Mrs Rs claim was for an unexpected complication of 
previous treatment shed had to manage symptoms of her endometriosis. The 
policy excludes treatment that only offers temporary relief of the symptoms of a 
chronic condition. So, the insertion of the coil wouldnt have been covered by the 
policy (I appreciate that it occurred before the policy began). Ive set out above the exclusion in the policy which provides that where treatment would not be covered 
under the policy, AXA  doesnt cover further treatment as a result of or connected 
with the initial treatment. I think that the removal of the coil is treatment thats 
connected to the initial treatment, so excluded from the policy. 
Mrs R says that if a medical procedure has a CCSD code its for an acute condition 
and a claim in relation to it cant be declined under the chronic condition exclusion.  
I dont agree. The CCSD code doesnt determine whether a condition is acute or 
chronic  the policy terms and conditions do. Mrs Rs policy incorporates the 
Association of British Insurers definition of acute and chronic conditions and 
theres no reference to CCSD codes. 
Mr W asked other insurers whether they would cover a claim such as the one 
made by Mrs R. Each insurer sets its own terms and conditions. Im considering 
whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mrs Rs claim against her 
policy. Whether another insurers terms would have covered the claim doesnt alter 
the outcome here. 
 
Considering everything, I dont think that AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mrs Rs claim in this case. So, I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman