DRN-3856551
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lightblue U.K. Limited mis-sold him an income protection policy.
What happened
Mr J took out an income protection policy in May 2019 through Lightblue. The policy was set 
up to pay out £2,500 per month if Mr J was unable to work due to an accident or sickness. 
This was based on roughly 70% of Mr Js salary of £45,000 per year as recorded by the 
advisor. The policy had a deferred period of four weeks. Mr Js occupation was recorded as 
civil engineer.
Mr J made a claim on the policy, but the insurer calculated the benefit based on Mr Js last 
three years net income pre-incapacity as he was self-employed, as per the policy terms. This 
meant it changed the monthly benefit from £2,500 per month to £1,674 per month. The 
insurer also changed Mr Js deferred period from four weeks to 13 weeks, as it considered 
him to be a ground worker.
Mr J made a complaint to Lightblue and said it mis-sold the policy to him. He was unhappy 
that he wasnt told how the monthly benefit would be calculated, and that the deferred period 
was changed. Mr J wanted Lightblue to pay his claim for the full monthly benefit of £2,500 
after a four-week deferred period  as per the policy he bought.
Lightblue accepted that the advisor didnt do everything right when he sold the policy. It 
accepted it hadnt asked enough questions about Mr Js occupation, and it hadnt explained 
how the monthly benefit was calculated as Mr J was self-employed. So, Lightblue made an 
offer to put things right for Mr J.
Lightblue explained that the maximum monthly benefit Mr J could ever have received from 
any insurer was 70% of his income, based on his last three years net income pre-incapacity 
as he was self-employed. So, it said that Mr J hadnt lost out because of this  he would 
never have been able to buy a policy that would have paid him a benefit greater than this. 
But Lightblue said Mr J would have been paying a higher premium than he should have 
been. This was because the benefit was set higher than it should have been. So, Lightblue 
offered to refund this overpaid premium to him. Lightblue also arranged for the insurer to 
refund Mr J the overpaid premium due to the change in deferred period.
Additionally, Lightblue offered to pay Mr Js claim after a four-week deferred period, up until 
13 weeks as per the amended deferred period, subject to receiving evidence showing Mr J 
was incapacitated during this period. And lastly, Lightblue offered Mr J £400 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Mr J wasnt happy with Lightblues offer, and he maintained that it should pay his claim in 
full, as per the policy he was sold. So, he brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, she thought the 
offer Lightblue had made was fair and reasonable, and put him back into the position he 
would have been, had there been no mistake. But Mr J didnt agree with the investigators 
findings. As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its not within my power to punish a business in any way. Where a business has 
made a mistake, my role is to put the consumer back into the position they would have been, 
had there been no mistake.
Its not in dispute that Lightblue didnt do everything right when it sold the policy. So, I dont 
need to make any further finding on this. I only need to decide if what Lightblue has offered 
to put things right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Lightblues offer was fair and actually goes 
beyond putting Mr J back into the position he wouldve been, had there been no mistake. Ill 
explain why.
Lightblue has confirmed that Mr J would have been able to buy a policy with a four-week 
deferred period if his occupation had been recorded as a ground worker. So, I think its fair 
and reasonable that Lightblue pays the benefit amount, as calculated by the insurer, that 
Mr J should have received after the four-week deferred period, up until the amended 13-
week deferred period. I also think its reasonable that Lightblue has asked Mr J to show 
evidence of the incapacity before it pays this benefit amount, the same as the insurer would 
require in the circumstances. That said, if the insurer accepted Mr Js claim after the 13-
week deferred period, I think its reasonable for Lightblue to accept that Mr J was 
incapacitated up until then without further evidence.
For the avoidance of doubt, as Lightblue is a broker, I think its fair and reasonable that it 
relies on the insurer for the benefit amount thats been calculated. If Mr J doesnt think the 
insurer has calculated this correctly based on his last three years net income pre-incapacity, 
he needs to raise this with the insurer.
But in any event, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Lightblue to pay 
Mr J a monthly benefit of £2,500. Any income protection policy he would have been able to 
buy would only ever have paid a maximum monthly benefit of 70% of his income, based on 
his last three years income pre-incapacity as he was self-employed. And this is what 
Lightblue has offered to pay him. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Lightblue to 
pay Mr J something he would never have been entitled to receive.
Lightblue also offered to refund Mr J the overpaid premiums due to being insured for a 
higher monthly benefit, and its arranged for the insurer to refund him the overpaid premiums 
due to the amended deferred period. I think this is fair and reasonable, and actually goes 
beyond putting Mr J back in the position he would have been. I say this because Lightblue 
has agreed to pay the claim after four weeks, but Mr J has now actually paid a lower 
premium for a 13-week deferred period. But this part of the premium was refunded by the 
insurer, so this doesnt impact my direction to Lightblue.Its clear that Lightblues mistake caused Mr J distress and inconvenience. But I think the 
£400 its offered fairly compensates Mr J for these issues. Overall, I think what Lightblue has 
offered to do to put things right is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Additionally, though, I think Lightblue should also pay Mr J interest on the overpaid 
premiums, as hes been out of pocket for these amounts due to Lightblues errors. But I dont 
think it needs to pay interest on the monthly benefit amount, as Lightblue offered to pay 
these when the payments were due.
Going forward, if Mr J wishes to have a policy with a four-week deferred period for any future 
incapacity, he may want to contact a broker to explore his options.
Putting things right
Lightblue should:
refund Mr J the overpaid premiums due to being insured for a higher monthly benefit,
pay Mr J 8% simple interest on the overpaid premiums from the date the premiums 
were paid until the date of settlement,
pay Mr J the monthly benefit amount he wouldve received from the insurer had the 
deferred period been four weeks, up until the 13-week deferred period, and subject to 
reasonable evidence of Mr Js incapacity as set out in this decision, and
pay Mr J £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer Lightblue U.K. Limited has made is fair and reasonable. I 
direct it to put things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman