DRN-4379979
The complaint
Mr I complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to protect him from becoming the 
victim of an investment scam.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything in 
detail again here. However, in summary, Mr I believes he has been the victim of an 
investment scam. 
Between September 2017 and January 2019, Mr I made three payments to Company W. 
Company W purported to be a legitimate investment company but Mr I now believes they 
were operating a scam. In total, Mr I made the following payments:
£10,000 in September 2017
£10,000 in October 2018
£10,000 in January 2019
Mr I now feels that Santander shouldve identified the payments he was making as 
suspicious and contacted him to discuss them before it agreed to process them on his 
behalf. Mr I believes that had Santander done so, the scam wouldve come to light, and he 
wouldnt be out of pocket now.   
Santander doesnt believe that Mr I has been the victim of a scam at all. It said Mr I had 
received some returns from Company W before it ultimately went into liquidation and 
because of this, Santander feel Mr Is circumstances amount to a private civil dispute 
between him and Company W  rather than a scam that it should become involved in now. 
Unhappy, with Santanders response, Mr I brought his complaint to our service with the 
help of a professional representative.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. They said, even if 
they were satisfied that Mr I had been the victim of a scam, they didnt think Santander 
wouldve been able to prevent the payments Mr I had made because, at the time, the 
investment he was entering into wouldve, on the face of it, appeared legitimate. So, they 
didnt recommend Santander offer Mr I a refund now. 
Mr I disagreed. He said that Santander shouldve identified the payments as suspicious at 
the time and had it done so, it wouldve become apparent that he was involved in a scam 
and the payments wouldve been prevented. He also said that, at the time the payments 
were made, Santander was already on notice that Company W was operating a fraudulent 
scheme and therefore the payments should never have been allowed to proceed.  
As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Having considered the submissions from both Mr I and Santander, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator, and I wont be recommending that this complaint be upheld. Ill 
explain why. 
Has Mr I been the victim of a scam?
Generally, my first consideration in a case like this would be to decide if Company W was 
operating a scam as Mr I and his representatives have suggested. In order to be persuaded 
of this, Id need to be satisfied that Company W had the intention to defraud Mr I from the 
outset; and it would now be difficult to ascertain whether this was the case, so many years 
later. Here, though, Im satisfied that I dont need to answer the question of whether or not 
Mr I was most likely scammed. This is because I dont think I could uphold this complaint 
even if I were to be satisfied that he had been. Ill explain why in more detail below.
Santanders obligations
Payment service providers like Santander have long-standing obligations to be alert to 
fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. However, these obligations 
are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, if Company W was not operating 
a scam, Santander had no obligation to prevent Mr Is payments to it, and so I couldnt 
reasonably hold it liable for them now.
If, on the other hand, Company W was operating a scam, Im satisfied I still couldnt 
reasonably uphold the complaint. I say this because I dont think Santander wouldve been 
able to establish this and prevent the payments from leaving Mr Is account at the time. 
It is accepted that Mr I authorised the payments now in question. So, under the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr I is presumed liable 
for his loss in the first instance. However, there are circumstances where it might be 
appropriate for Santander to take additional steps or make additional checks before 
processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. An example of this would be when a payment is sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic when compared with the usual use of the account. In such circumstances, 
Id expect Santander to intervene and ask some questions about the intended transaction 
before processing it. However, there are many payments made by customers each day and its not realistic or 
reasonable to expect Santander to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a 
balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments. 
So, Ive firstly thought about whether the payments here could be considered out of 
character and unusual when compared with Mr Is usual account activity. I understand that 
Mr Is representatives feel they were and shouldve been considered suspicious enough to 
have warranted further intervention. 
However, Ive reviewed the transactions that left Mr Is account in the months leading up to 
the scam, and whilst I agree that the initial payment here is of a relatively high value, I still 
dont think it wouldve been remarkable enough at the time to have stood out to Santander 
and prompted further discussion.  
I acknowledge that the first payment is for £10,000. So, it is for a relatively high amount and 
is being made to a new payee. However, Mr I has a history of making regular similar high 
value payments from this account. In the six months preceding this initial payment, Mr I had 
made eight payments from this account that range from £5,000 to £20,000 in value. And so, 
I dont think it would be reasonable to say this £10,000 payment was so out of character 
when compared to Mr Is usual spending on the account that Santander shouldve 
intervened and questioned it at the time.
The second payment, for a further £10,000, is made over 12 months later and is now being 
made to an established payee. However, I do think there is an argument that this shouldve 
prompted some further action from Santander. I say this because, by this point, the value of 
this payment is out of character for Mr Is account. He hasnt made any similar payments in 
the 12 months prior. And so, for the sake of completeness, Ive thought about what I think 
would most likely have happened if Santander had stopped this payment, pending enquiries 
with Mr I, to check whether he was at risk of financial harm. 
Having done so, I am not persuaded, that this wouldve likely resulted in this payment, and 
therefore the later payment, being prevented. I say this because even if Santander had 
provided Mr I with a scam warning and asked him further questions, I dont think its 
plausible that Santander wouldve identified a potential scam and so Im satisfied that Mr I 
wouldve more likely than not have gone ahead with his investment. 
I say this because, at the time, Mr I was paying an established UK company which had been 
trading for two years, for a bond administered by an FCA-registered business. The returns 
on offer were not unrealistic, and he had been given professional documentation setting out 
a costed plan and the risks involved and setting out that the bond was safeguarded by an 
independent security trustee. At the time, there were no warnings or investigations against 
the companies involved. And so, it seems to me that the investment wouldve looked 
genuine at the time and it would be unfair now to think Santander could have reasonably 
foreseen that Mr I would later lose his funds. Indeed, the relevant authorities only began 
looking into this matter some years after Mr Is payments and are still investigating now. Its 
only with the benefit of hindsight and time that there might be some indication that it was 
possibly a fraudulent scheme. 
So even if Santander had questioned Mr I, I would not expect it to have stopped the first or 
second payments or prevented the third. Even if it had given Mr I general warnings about 
cold callers and the possibility of a scam, I do not see that it was likely to have made a 
difference in this case. At the time, there was ultimately not yet a reasonable basis on which to conclude this was a scam, whereas Mr I had been given good reason to feel reassured 
that this was in fact a legitimate investment. 
Ive taken on board what Mr Is representatives have said about Santander being on notice 
that Company W was operating a fraudulent scheme at the time and I questioned Santander 
about this. Having done so, Im satisfied that Santander was not on notice of any wrong-
doing at the time the payments now in question here were made and any action later taken 
by Santander was result of Company W going into liquidation. 
Recovery of funds
Next, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to try to recover Mr Is 
money after he reported that he mightve been the victim of a scam. 
Unfortunately, Santander were only told about this many years after the payments had been 
made, Company W, by this point, had gone into liquidation. So, given the time thats passed 
and what the administrators have said about the likelihood of money being available, I dont 
think Santander could have likely recovered Mr Is funds by the time it was told about the 
scam allegation. 
So, while I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr I, I dont think Santander 
should be held responsible for his loss now. I realise this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr I, this is a substantial amount of money, but Im unable to reasonably come to another 
conclusion.
Summary
In summary, if Mr Is circumstances dont amount to him being scammed, there is no 
obligation on Santander to refund or to have done anything differently. And even if Mr I has 
been the victim of a scam, I wouldnt reasonably have expected Santander to have 
uncovered this and prevented the payments at the time  or to have recovered them when 
he complained many years later. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Emly Hanley Hayes
Ombudsman