DRN-2240055
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) should accept responsibility for 
the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Ms R says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out to cover a store card in 2002. Our adjudicator
didnt uphold the complaint. Ms R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Ms R aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding the
policy to her card. Ms R says she was told the policy was mandatory. I dont know what was 
said at the time Ms R took her card and PPI but AXA has sent us a copy of the available 
paperwork.
The application form Ms R completed at the time she applied for the card and PPI had a 
separate section for the policy that had to be signed separately from signing for the card 
itself to take the PPI. Ms R did sign separately to take the cover so I think she would have 
been aware the policy was optional, and that she didnt have to take it. Without further 
evidence that the policy wasnt presented as optional, I am unable to uphold this complaint 
for this reason.
Ms R has told us AXA recommend the PPI to her. If it did AXA would have had to check if it 
was right for her. Ms R has told us she would have been entitled to generous sick pay, 
redundancy pay, and could have relied on help from family if she was unable to make her 
repayments so the policy wasnt needed. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Ms 
Rs sick pay, and for longer than she would have received full pay. The policy also covered 
circumstances other than redundancy. And while Ms Rs family would have wanted to help, 
this offer would have been dependant on their circumstances at the time, which could have 
changed. So, I think the policy was right for Ms R.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means AXA doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms R.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman