DRN-4207733
The complaint
Mr L says Oplo PL Ltd, trading as 1st Stop Personal Loans, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr L took out a 48-month instalment loan from Oplo on 5 February 2018. It was for £10,000
and the monthly repayments were £312.34. The total repayable was £14,992.32.
Mr L says Oplo didnt suitably assess his application. He was self-employed and it did not
ask for bank statements to ensure he could repay the loan sustainably. Also, the terms of the
loan were not made clear to him.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint. He said Oplo ought to have realised from the
checks it completed that Mr L would most likely not be able to repay the loan sustainably. He
found however that Oplo had provided clear information about the loan.
Oplo disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said, in
summary, this loan was for debt consolidation and would leave Mr L £76 better off each
month. The credit check did not show any adverse data. It said whilst Mr L had used payday
loans historically he had no active accounts, and it had been two years since he had
consolidated other debt. His debt-to-income ratio was not high and there was nothing to
suggest Mr L would not be able to repay this loan sustainably.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision, an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decisions. I asked both parties to send in any 
comments or new information by 22 June 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see Oplo asked for certain information from Mr L before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of his income and employment. It used a third-party income verification service to
check his salary and contacted his employer to verify his employment status. I note that
Oplos evidence shows Mr L was in employment at the time (not self-employed) and as it
completed a successful income verification check I find it reasonable it did not ask for bank
statements or pay slips. It asked about his non-discretionary outgoings. It also checked his
credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It asked
about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined
Oplo concluded the loan would be affordable for Mr L as he had £639.93 disposable monthly
income.
I think these checks were proportionate and based on the initial results I dont think further
checks were needed. And I think Oplo made a fair lending decision based on the information
it gathered. Ill explain why.
Oplos affordability assessment showed the loan was affordable for Mr L on a pounds and
pence basis. I also think it was fair for Oplo to conclude it would be sustainably affordable.
I say this as the loan was for debt consolidation - to repay one loan, that was most likely
more expensive given the lender, and a hire purchase agreement. Doing this would create
an additional £76 disposable income for Mr L creating some additional financial flexibility. At
the time Mr L was up to date on all his active credit accounts.
Our investigator referred to the payday loans Mr L had used in the past. But, as far as I can
see, from Oplos credit check he had only used two such loans (in July 2017) in the 12
months prior to this application, and they were settled, so I would not consider that to be a
reason to decline his application.
Equally, whilst there were times he was overlimit on a credit card, he was within limit at the
time of this application and he had always repaid more than the minimum repayment in the
last 12 months. I can also see Mr L had been in early arrears on two different accounts that
were now settled, but again I dont think that these were reason enough to decline Mr Ls
application.
Overall, from the available evidence, I cannot fairly conclude that the proportionate checks
Oplo completed showed such of a level of financial pressure such that Oplo was wrong to
lend to Mr L.
I also havent found any evidence Oplo treated Mr L unfairly in some other way. He says the
terms of the loan were not made clear to him but the credit agreement Mr L signed
electronically set out the key terms including the interest rate, APR, term, arrangement fee,
monthly cost and total repayable.
Oplo replied to my provisional decision saying it had no further points to make. Mr L did not 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party sent in any comments or new evidence for me to consider I have no reason 
to change the findings or outcome set out in my provisional decision.
It follows I do not find Oplo was wrong to lend to Mr L.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman