DRN-3161261
The complaint
Miss G complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Admiral 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from November 2020, Miss G insured her car on a comprehensive policy with 
Admiral. She had a protected no claims bonus (NCB).
In December 2020, Miss Gs vehicle and a third partys vehicle were each damaged in an 
incident in a car park. Miss G sent Admiral CCTV of the incident.
In February 2021, Admiral settled Miss Gs claim.
Admiral didnt review the CCTV until June 2021. Admiral then said it would treat the incident 
as Miss Gs fault. Miss G complained to Admiral. 
By two final responses in July 2021, Admiral upheld Miss Gs complaint in part. It apologised 
for aspects of its handling of the claim and the complaint. It said it was sending Miss G a 
total of £100.00 compensation. But Admiral still held Miss G at fault for the incident. 
Unhappy with that, Miss G brought her complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Admiral had treated Miss G fairly.
Through her representative, Miss G disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. Miss Gs representative says, in summary, that:
He will contact Admiral again to attempt to recover the recordings of the phone calls 
when she and he spoke to Admiral. Admiral agreed that it was not only reasonable 
but normal to move in and out of a parking space a couple of times when parking. 
They went through the exact details of the incident as reflected in the CCTV footage.
He will also try to find a professional in the industry who can confirm the rights of way 
in a parking situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurers quote higher premiums to customers who have been involved in an 
incident or a claim, particularly a fault claim.
If a motor insurer has paid out on a claim, its common practice for it to treat that claim as an 
open claim or as a faut claim unless and until that insurer recovers its outlay in full, typically 
from a third party. Where an insurer agrees to split liability 50/50, it will recover only half its 
outlay.
Admirals policy schedule for Miss G included the following note:
Our maximum NCB is 5 years.
Please see Your Car Insurance Guide for details of how your bonus will be affected if 
you make a claim.
And the Car Insurance Guide included the following:
Protected No Claims Bonus allows you to make up to 2 claims before your no claim 
bonus entitlement is reduced.
Like most motor insurance policies, Admirals policy for Miss G provided that it would decide 
how to deal with a claim by a third party or against a third party. Admirals policy terms 
included the following:
We are entitled to:
oconduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
otake legal action over any claim in your namefor our own benefit
oadmit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf
The effect of that term was that  on a question of liability between Miss G and a third party 
 Admirals view would prevail over Miss Gs. But I will consider whether Admiral applied that 
term fairly.
Admiral took into account Miss Gs report of the incident. That included her report that the 
third party driver hadnt stopped to exchange details. Thats not the usual reaction of a driver 
who didnt consider himself at fault. At first Admiral accepted Miss Gs report and said it 
wouldnt affect her NCB.
Admiral settled Miss Gs claim by paying cash in lieu of repairs on 2 February 2021. As she 
had comprehensive cover, Miss G wouldve settled Miss Gs claim whether she had been at 
fault or not. 
Admiral belatedly reviewed the question of liability. I find it likely that Admiral took into 
account the nature and location of the damage to Miss Gs vehicle and her report of the 
damage to the side of the third partys vehicle.
Admiral belatedly reviewed the CCTV. After that, Admiral made its decision to treat the 
incident as a fault claim against Miss G.
In my view, the CCTV was enough to decide the question of whether Miss G was at fault. 
Whatever Miss G or her representative had said on the telephone, and whatever Admiral 
had said in response, the CCTV showed what had happened in the car park.
So I dont consider that it would be fair to Miss G or to Admiral to wait to see if there are any 
more telephone recordings in addition to those Admiral has already sent to Miss G and to us.
I dont consider that it would be fair to Miss G or to Admiral to wait for her representative to 
find an expert on rights of way in a parking situation. Admiral based its decision on the principle that a driver who is reversing a vehicle has to 
give way. I have seen enough to say that Im satisfied that it was reasonable that Admiral 
applied that principle. I dont consider that Admirals decision treated Miss G unfairly. 
I accept that the decision has had an adverse effect on her protected NCB and may cause 
Admiral and other insurers to quote higher premiums than without a fault claim. 
Nevertheless, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to change its decision or the 
way it recorded the claim.
Ive noted the delay and other shortcomings in the way Admiral dealt with the claim and with 
the complaint. And Ive thought about the effect of that on Miss G. Keeping in mind the 
CCTV  I dont consider that these shortcomings affected the outcome of the claim. 
But I accept that the shortcomings caused Miss G some annoyance and inconvenience from 
June 2021. Im satisfied that Admirals apology and offer of £100.00 was fair and in line with 
what I would otherwise have directed. 
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay any further compensation to 
Miss G or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman