DRN-3285758
The complaint
Mrs A, complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) provided unsuitable 
investment advice to her which resulted in her opening an ISA Investor and paying in 
£1,750 of her savings.
Mrs A is seeking financial compensation. 
What happened
In April 2002, Mrs A met with a Halifax agent in one of its branches. Mrs A said she recalled 
being taken into a side room where she discussed her circumstances and potential 
investment options with a lady she was led to believe was an adviser who was giving her 
investment advice. This resulted in her investing in a product, the Tracker Trust Fund, based 
on equity markets. Mrs A said it wasnt credible for Halifax to argue that she would, of her 
own volition, have decided to take out a product such as this when she had no 
understanding of it and no previous investment experience.  
Halifax said that Mrs A had taken out her ISA Investor in April 2002, under its Direct Offer 
scheme. It said Direct Offer ISA Investors were offered to customers as part of a savings 
review and no financial advice was provided. Halifax said at the beginning of any discussion 
about these products, interviewers informed customers that they could only provide factual 
information on the Direct Offer ISA Investor and not advice.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. There was only limited point of 
sale information available but he said a letter Halifax would have issued to her at the time 
highlighted the fact that no advice had been given. The investigators view was that he 
hadnt seen enough overall to show that Mrs A had received financial advice about the 
suitability of the product she invested in.  
Mrs A disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. 
She mainly said that Halifax, whether inadvertently or deliberately, didnt take any real steps 
at the point of sale to ensure customers were aware that the advisers were not regulated 
financial advisers and couldnt advise on the suitability of products. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Halifax has said it 
consents to us looking at this complaint. So I've proceeded to consider the merits of this 
complaint. 
I appreciate that Mrs A feels strongly that she had been advised by a Halifax adviser to 
invest in the ISA Investor she took out. And Ive no reason to doubt that Mrs A is certain 
about what shes told me. But I must be impartial and weigh up all the available information 
from both sides and decide what I think is most likely on a balance of probabilities. This 
means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. 
On the one hand, Mrs A has provided some quite detailed information about what she says 
happened. She recalls a meeting when she was asked questions about her circumstances, 
her savings, income, job and where she had put money before. She said that the adviser 
told Mrs A about this one product in particular which would meet her needs. And that the 
adviser had then completed the application form on the computer, printed it out and handed 
it to Mrs A for her to sign and date before handing the form back to the adviser to be 
processed. 
On the other hand, Halifax has explained its sales process required its staff to make clear in 
these types of meetings that they werent authorised to give financial advice. And in support 
of this, it has provided a letter that it says is similar to a letter Mrs A would have received 
from Halifax when she opened the ISA Investor. This includes specific wording that says: 
Your money has been invested in the Halifax Tracker Trust as shown on the enclosed 
contract note. No advice has been given on the suitability of this investment, as this Trust is 
designed for investors, like yourself, who are happy to make their own informed decisions.
The letter Mrs A wouldve received also included notice of her cancellation rights. So I think 
it's fair to say that if Mrs A hadnt been sure she wanted to take out the ISA Investor, she had 
plenty of time to take advice if she had questions about its suitability or she could have 
simply cancelled it anytime within the 14 days cooling off period by signing and returning the 
prepared cancellation form. 
I have also been provided with some additional information which further supports what 
Halifax has said about it not offering customers suitability advice about this product. 
Halifax said it wouldve sent Mrs A a document headed IMPORTANT: Information about 
your right to cancel this agreement is enclosed. This prompted Mrs A to consider if she had 
received all the information she wanted in order to understand her investment and asked if 
she was satisfied that the investment was suitable for her needs. It says if the answer is NO 
she should consult its helpline but to note that .. no advice can be given regarding the 
suitability of this investment.  
The ISA Investor information leaflet Halifax has sent me, which I think is likely to be similar 
to the information leaflet Mrs A wouldve seen at the time, explains about the Tracking 
product. This includes the following information:
If you require  advice  as to the suitability  of investing  in the UK FTSE  100 Index  
Tracking  Fund  you will need  to see a Financial  Adviser,  as a Halifax  Adviser  cannot  
provide  advice  on this option.  Please  note this may mean  you incur  additional  cost.
None of this product literature or other paperwork proves for certain what Halifax actually 
said to Mrs A in April 2002. But its completely understandable that Mrs A might not recall 
word for word exactly what was discussed so long ago. So what she says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold her complaint where the facts are not agreed and theres a 
lack of supporting evidence. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, bearing in mind that Mrs A invested in 
a product that ordinary Halifax branch staff didnt and couldnt offer customers advice about, 
and Mrs A would have had to make a special appointment and pay for advice from a regulated financial adviser, it seems to me more likely than not that Halifax didnt advise 
Mrs A about suitability of the Tracker Fund. The fact that Mrs A recalls the Halifax staff 
member printing part-completed forms off the computer doesnt mean it was an advised 
sale. 
On balance, I find it is more likely that, in line with its established sales process, Halifax 
provided Mrs A with the product information only and Mrs A made her own decision when 
she chose to take it out. 
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mrs A but I hope that setting things out as 
I've done helps explain how I have reached my conclusion that this isnt a complaint I can 
uphold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman