DRN-2910235
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that there was a mistake when they tried to port their mortgage 
with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) to a new property. 
.  
What happened
Mrs C and Mr C had a mortgage with HSBC. There were three loans. They were redeemed 
on 20 August 2020 - £83,531 (this had a fixed interest rate of 2.05% to 30 November 2020  
early repayment charge £212); £89,710 (this had a fixed interest rate of 2.14% to 31 
December 2022  early repayment charge £1,889); and £27,410 (standard variable rate). 
HSBC gave a decision in principle on 20 July 2020  for a mortgage of £342,941. On 21 
September 2020, HSBC made a mortgage offer for £345,000, with a fixed rate of 1.79% until 
31 December 2022. On 17 November 2020, Mrs C and Mr C drew down the new mortgage 
of £345,000 repayable over 33 years, with a fixed rate of 1.79% until 31 December 2022.
Mrs C and Mr C complained. They were expecting to get a refund of the early repayment 
charge, but didnt. They said theyd applied online for the new mortgage and when they did, 
they werent given the option to port their old mortgage to the new property  as theyd 
wanted to. So  they had to pay the early repayment charges totalling £2,101 on the loans 
that had been redeemed. Theyd assumed that the ERC would be refunded and had been 
told so when Mr C called HSBC on 17 November 2020. 
HSBC said that Mrs C and Mr Cs application was fully non-advised  so they didnt provide 
any advice on suitability. When Mrs C and Mr C applied online, they didnt opt to port their 
old mortgage loans. To qualify to port them, the new mortgage had to be drawn within six 
months of the previous one being repaid - and had to be the same fixed rate and term as 
previously held. While the first condition had been met, the new loan was at a different rate 
and term than the old loan. So  it didnt qualify for the porting offer.  Mr C called HSBC on 
17 November 2020 and asked when the refund of ERC would be received. The call handler 
had asked for the answer within HSBC  but she didnt get back to Mrs C and Mr C with the 
answer. She should have, and for this, HSBC offered compensation of £250.
Mrs C and Mr C brought their complaint to us. They said it wasnt clear on the HSBC website 
about how to go about porting a mortgage. Theyd not logged in on their internet banking ID 
 as they were still registered at an old address, and therefore it didnt recognise them, and 
so they went through the public part of the website  for non-customers. So  it didnt offer 
the porting option. They said that wasnt their fault. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He said hed seen the screenshots of what 
the website looked like  and it showed that customers had to log onto online banking to 
continue their application. And so  Mrs C and Mr C must have ignored, or not seen, the 
prompting to log on. Theyd also had a redemption statement which had said that the ERC 
would be refunded if the new loan was for the same amount, fixed rate and term as the old 
loan. And  the new mortgage didnt meet these criteria. So  he felt that the compensation 
offered by HSBC was fair and reasonable.
Mrs C and Mr C didnt agree. They said - the selections theyd made on the website were 
that they didnt have an existing home or mortgage  and they didnt at that stage. There 
wasnt any warning on the website about having to log onto their HSBC account if they 
wished to port their old loans. They asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three aspects to Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint:
Were they entitled to port their old mortgage loan under its terms?
What did the website journey tell them?
What were they told on the phone when they called HSBC?
I can see that they were entitled to port their old mortgage  and have the ERC refunded  if 
a new mortgage with the existing fixed rate product was taken within six months of the 
redemption of the old loan. This was provided it was for at least the same amount, fixed rate 
and term as previously held. This was set out in the redemption statement for Mrs C and Mr 
Cs old loan. I agree that the new loan was being taken within six months  and the fixed rate 
was for the same term  to 31 December 2022. But Mrs C and Mr C opted for a fixed rate of 
1.79%, which was different to the old rates they had. They didnt qualify for a refund of ERC 
on that basis. Mrs and Mr C says this is because this wasnt an option presented to them 
when applying on line. So Ive gone on to consider this point. 
Ive also seen that HSBCs website said that if Mrs C and Mr C had logged onto their 
accounts, they wouldve been taken through the porting journey  including options to port, 
the old fixed rates and how to transfer them. The website advises to port your existing 
HSBC mortgageyou can apply onlineyou can only apply online for a porting application 
from your online banking. So  Mrs C and Mr C had to log onto their account to port their 
old mortgage. This obviously makes sense  as its the only way that HSBC wouldve been 
able to capture the details of their old loans. By not logging on, they were identified as non-
customers by HSBC. The website also says Please log on to Online Banking and select 
my saved mortgage applicationsto continue your application.
Ive listened to the four calls that Mr C made to HSBC on 18 July 2020  while he was in the 
process of applying for a decision in principle (DIP). The calls were largely about obtaining a 
DIP and I wont go into those details here as theyre not relevant to this complaint. But on the 
first call at 08.37  Mr C says he cant progress the application because his old address was 
being shown  as hes said to us in his complaint. And then on the third call  at 18.01 in the 
evening, HSBCs call handler goes into the system and changes his address to the correct 
one. Mr C then logs on and confirms that the right address is shown  he says, all good. 
The last and fourth call after that  at 19.36  discussed the mortgage decision in principle - 
and so, I assume that Mr C was then logged on. I did note that Mr C said on the call that he 
was applying for a mortgage to move house and port lending across at a reduced rate 
He also confirmed that he understood the application was non-advised. 
Mrs C and Mr C have argued that they couldnt log onto HSBCs website later on because 
their profile held their old address  but I can see that this was resolved on 18 July 2020.  So 
 they shouldve been able to log on with their own ID when they came to apply for the 
mortgage later, in September 2020. I do wonder if Mrs C and Mr C thought they could port 
the old lending across but at the lower interest rate of 1.79% which wasnt allowed under 
HSBCs terms.  But also - this was the only comment which mentioned porting on any of the 
calls on 18 July 2021. And because the mortgage was non-advised  this meant that Mrs C and Mr C were taking their own decisions about their application. If theyd opted for an 
advised sale, then its probable that a mortgage advisor wouldve walked them through the 
porting process  but they didnt have the benefit of this. 
When Mrs C and Mr C later completed the full mortgage application  its not clear to me 
why they chose to not log onto their account  and therefore retrieve the previous mortgage 
details. But  this couldnt have been because of a process problem concerning the system 
holding the wrong address. And I can see that there were enough flags on the website to ask 
them to log on if they wished to port an existing mortgage. Its also clear that because they 
were opting for a rate which wasnt the same as their old rates  that they wouldnt qualify for 
HSBCs porting offer either. 
Ive listened to the call when Mr C called HSBC on 17 November 2020. In it, he asked when 
the refund of ERC would be made. HSBCs call handler said it was in hand and would be 
refunded next Friday. So  this was an error on HSBCs part, for which they apologised and 
offered to pay compensation of £250. But  this call isnt relevant to Mrs C and Mr Cs main 
complaint  as the mortgage had by that time been agreed and drawn down.
So  in all fairness, I dont think HSBC have made any fundamental errors here regarding 
Mrs C and Mr Cs application. But later on  they did tell them that the ERC would be 
refunded, which was an error. And I think that the compensation theyve offered for that is 
appropriate. 
I can see that Mrs C and Mr C feel strongly about their complaint, and will therefore be 
disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask HSBC to do anymore here. If Mrs C 
and Mr C wish to accept HSBCs offer of compensation of £250, they should get in touch 
with HSBC.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman