DRN-3767688
The complaint
Mr B complains about a five-year bond he invested into issued by Basset & Gold Plc (B&G 
Plc), an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium). He says 
the bond was mis-sold to him as he was misled into thinking it was a safe and well 
diversified investment. Mr B says he did not wish to put his capital at risk at all. He feels the 
bond was mismanaged, as he was led to believe that his money would be invested in a 
range of different businesses rather than it all being lent to one pay day lender.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr B invested in a B&G Plc 5-Year Fixed Monthly Income Bond. Sales of this bond were 
dealt with by Bassett Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer 
of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a website it 
operated  bassetgold.co.uk. And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bond. 
Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could 
be promoted to and on how to test the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. 
BG Ltds online application process took steps to meet the obligations created by these 
rules. I have set out details of the application process below and will set out, and consider, 
the relevant rules in my findings.
Neither B&G Plc nor BG Ltd was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its 
own right at the time of Mr Ms investment. But both were appointed representatives of 
Gallium, which was an FCA authorised business.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 
28 February 2018. As such, Gallium is responsible for a complaint about either business 
which is about the acts and omissions which took place during this time, for which Gallium 
accepted responsibility.
Gallium also played a role in relation to the bond in its own right  it was responsible for 
approving BG Ltds marketing and promotional material relating to the bond. Gallium has 
confirmed that the promotional material included the Invitation Document (which was the 
formal financial promotion document for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000), bassetgold.co.uk, and online advertising material (such as Google 
and Facebook adverts) issued by BG Ltd.
Please note, I will refer to Gallium in my decision and any such reference should be taken to 
mean Gallium or its legal representative.  
Mr Bs investment in the bond
Mr B visited bassetgold.co.uk, after searching online to find a product which would provide a 
better return than his building society account or Premium Bond savings, to supplement his 
pension income. He says he called BG Ltd who sent him the information to enable him to 
invest in the bond. He completed the online application process and says he was talked 
through the application process by a BG Ltd representative. 
Mr B completed the online application form on bassetgold.co.uk and applied to invest £9,000 
in the bond. The bond Mr B invested in offered an interest rate of 7.46% per year, payable 
monthly, with the invested capital to be returned after five years.
When Mr B referred his complaint to us, we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We were provided with copies of call recordings from immediately after the investment 
in the bond was made, and later, but we have not been provided with recordings of any 
conversations Mr B had with BG Ltd before or during the bond application.
Mr B says he wanted an investment that would provide a better return than his building 
society account or Premium Bonds to supplement his pension income, whilst also not taking 
any risk with his capital. He was assured by BG Ltds website and his discussions with his 
relationship manager that the bond was suitable for this purpose and he invested around 
15% of his savings in the bond.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point has taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. That email included the 
following:
To date the vast majority of lending has been to an FCA regulated lender that 
currently holds approximately 36,000 consumer loans. We are happy with the way 
that investment is performing, and the underlying spread of loans across tens of 
thousands of borrowers provides strong levels of predictability and resilience. 
As Basset & Gold Plc is currently predominantly invested in a single lender, it is our 
responsibility to ensure that you are aware of the associated risk, known as 
Concentration Risk. It might help to explain this risk if you think about the goose 
that laid the golden egg. It was a great asset, but it only took one goose to die for the 
asset to dry up. Basset & Golds investment team has performed due diligence on 
more than 40 opportunities over the past year. Its investment philosophy has been to 
accept the risk of holding one good asset, rather than diluting quality in order to 
improve diversification. We hope that this will translate into improved diversification 
over time, but as an investor you should be aware that Basset & Gold will only 
proceed with an investment when they are happy with it, even if that prolongs the 
Concentration Risk. 
This refers to the fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to 
one short term and pay day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle 
Buck went into administration in March 2020  and B&G Plc went into administration shortly 
afterwards. As a result, Mr B has not had his invested capital or interest returned to him 
(although he did receive the interest payments on the bond up until B&G Plc went into 
administration).
The online application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr B underwent.
Certification
Mr B would first have arrived at a page titled APPLY NOW TO BECOME AN INVESTOR 
which asks the customer to provide some basic details, The next page is titled PLEASE SELECT THE MOST ACCURATE INVESTOR PROFILE FROM THE LIST BELOW and in 
this case asked Mr B to select from EVERYDAY INVESTOR, SELF CERTIFIED 
SOPHISTICATED INVESTOR, ADVISED INVESTOR or HIGH NET WORTH 
INVESTOR.
Mr B selected EVERYDAY INVESTOR, which was described as follows:
What Is An Everyday Investor?
Anyone can become an Everyday Investor. You just need to agree not to make more 
than 10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, bonds and property 
excluding your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be sold (i.e. 
illiquid). This is why the FCA refers to these investors as Restricted Investors.
Having selected this profile, Mr B was then asked to make a statement, confirmation and 
declaration as follows:
Everyday Investor Statement
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications relating to 
non-readily realisable securities and investments as a restricted investor.
I declare that I qualify as a restricted investor because both of the following apply:
In the preceding twelve months, I have not invested more than 10% of my net assets 
in non-readily realisable securities.
I undertake that in the following twelve months, I will not invest more than 10% of my 
net assets in non-readily realisable securities. 
Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a 
loan secured on that property;
(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance;
(c) any benefits (in the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the 
termination of my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or 
my dependents are), or may be, entitled.
Investment Duration
I confirm that I am aware that the minimum duration of the current bonds on offer are 
as follows:
Cash Bond: 30 business days.
3 Year Monthly Income Bond: 3 years, 5 Year Monthly Income Bond: 5 years. 
Compounding High-Yield Bond: 5 years.
Pensioner Bonds: 1 year extendable up to 5 years.
Declaration
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all the money or other property invested.I am aware that it is open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who 
specialises in advising on non-readily realisable securities.
I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or I am 
familiar with this type of investment. I am not planning on borrowing, remortgaging or 
liquidating assets to invest into a Non-readily Realisable Security. I am not investing 
via a SIPP/SSAS created specifically for investment in a Non-readily Realisable 
Security. I will retain access to sufficient liquid resources following investment. I am 
aware the Bond is intended to be an income producing product and not a product 
that provides capital growth.
I agree to Basset & Gold Plc and Gallium Fund Solutions Limited keeping a record of 
this declaration and providing them to the FCA in event of an investigation."
Mr B was required to click Next to make the required statement, confirmation and 
declaration.
The appropriateness test
Having completed the certification, Mr B would then have arrived at a page titled JUST A 
FEW MORE OUESTIONS (REQUIRED BY LAW) which, included the following multiple-
choice questions and answers, and a concluding confirmation:
"These questions are designed to check that this type of investment is appropriate for 
you.
Please read each question carefully and select the answer that you believe is correct.
1) AFTER YOU INVEST IN THIS OFFER CAN YOU TRANSFER YOUR BASSET & 
GOLD BONDS?
The bonds are not transferable except in the case of the IFISA Bonds
Yes I can transfer them as a listed share
2) THE EXPECTED RETURN FROM BASSET & GOLD BONDS?
Is the fixed interest rate per annum paid over the term (plus my Money back at the 
end)
Is dependent on movement in the financial bond and equity markets
3) IS YOUR CAPITAL SECURE?
No, my capital is at risk and I might not get back all that I invested
Yes, my capital is secure and I have no risk of losing
4) CAN THE BASSET & GOLD BONDS BE CONVERTED TO BASSET & GOLD 
SHARES?
Yes
No
5) DIVERSIFICATION IS A COMMON WAY TO HELP MANAGE RISK WHEN INVESTING; WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
That you should invest all your money into a single bond.
That you should invest your money in a range of different bonds as well as other less 
risky investments.
I confirm that I have read, understood and agree to Basset Gold Ltd's terms and 
conditions of service and confirm that I would like to become a client of Basset Gold 
Ltd and receive financial promotions from time to time."
If any question was answered incorrectly the website displayed the following message (at 
the point of the particular question being answered incorrectly):
"You have selected an incorrect answer. If this was an error please correct your 
answer, however please consider that if you are unfamiliar with the features of this 
investment then it might not be suitable for you."
Mr B completed the full process, so clearly answered the questions correctly - but it is not 
known if he answered any questions incorrectly initially and changed his answers, having 
seen this message.
Answering the questions correctly allowed Mr B to move the to the final stages, which 
involved selecting an ISA or bond, selecting which of the products he wanted to invest in, 
and how much he wanted to invest. After completing these final stages consumers were able 
to click on a box to open the Invitation Document for the bond. However, it was not 
mandatory to do this - consumers were able to proceed without opening the Invitation 
Document. 
Gallium's response to Mr B's complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr B's complaint. It said, in summary:
Issuing the bonds and the subsequent performance of B&G Plc's business and 
lending activities were not regulated activities and were not matters for which Gallium 
assumed any responsibility.
The Invitation Document stated that B&G Plc was committing its funds to investment 
in peer-to-peer (P2P) and marketplace lending markets. The Bonds were not easily 
realisable and there was no certainty or guarantee that B&G Plc would be able to 
repay them. Prospective investors were also informed that the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme(FSCS) does not cover investment performance.
The Invitation Document and website contained information to assist investors to 
assess the potential investment. The Invitation Document stated that neither Gallium 
nor B&G Plc would provide investment advice, that prospective investors must rely 
on their own examination of the investment opportunity and that no person was 
authorised to give information not contained in the Invitation Document.
The Invitation Document said that B&G Plc was committing its funds to investment in 
P2P and marketplace lending markets which contain certain risks described in the 
Invitation Document. Its satisfied that the arrangements with the payday lender 
Uncle Buck fall within the categories of lending activity stated in the Invitation 
Document: Uncle Buck was involved in FCA-regulated online lending to borrowers in the high cost short-term credit sector.
It understands that B&G Plc intended to diversify its lending activities to include 
lending to other borrowers and that the statements to that effect in the Invitation 
Document were accurate at the time they were made.
It is not clear what documents or information Mr B had regard to when deciding to 
invest. However, it notes that the various financial promotions at the time, including 
the B&G Plc website and the Invitation Document, contained appropriate risk 
warnings for potential investors including that an individual may be exposed to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money invested.
Having reviewed Mr Bs responses Gallium found that he had not provided the 
necessary details or documentation that would support a valid complaint in respect of 
the mis-selling of his bond.
After Mr B referred his complaint to us, Gallium sent us submissions. In those submissions it 
said, in summary:
The issue of the bonds. and subsequent performance of B&G Plc's business and 
lending activities were not regulated activities and were not matters for which Gallium 
assumed any responsibility.
As part of the application process. every prospective investor declared that they 
understood that "the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me 
to a significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested, and that 
they "have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or [are] 
familiar with this type of investment.
Investors were also asked questions about their experience and understanding of the 
investment opportunity, to ensure that applicants could only invest If they had 
sufficient understanding, experience and financial means, such that the bonds were 
an appropriate investment for them.
It was stated in the Invitation Documents that Gallium had no ongoing role within 
Basset & Gold and that it was not responsible for the implementation of the plans, 
objectives or intentions or the viability of the Investment:
The risks to investors were also clearly explained.
Potential investors were required to confirm that they had read and understood the 
Invitation Document as part of applying to invest.
The Invitation Documents clearly specified on multiple occasions that investors 
capital was at risk and gave details on the risks of investing in bonds generally, and 
Basset & Gold bonds in particular.
I have considered these submissions in full. I have also seen a copy of what Gallium 
described as its "position statement, which sets out general information on the background 
to complaints about B&G Plc bonds and have considered this when reaching my decision.
Our Investigator's viewOne of our investigators considered Mr B's complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
He was satisfied the complaint is about a regulated activity and that Gallium, as the 
principal of BG Ltd, was responsible for the acts or omissions the complaint relates 
to. So, the complaint is one we can consider.
He was not satisfied that Mr B was provided with clear, fair and not mis-leading 
information about the bond. In particular the information on the bassetgold.co.uk 
website was misleading and unclear.
The application process - both in terms of the certification of Mr B as a "restricted 
investor" and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him - was 
misleading and didn't gather sufficient information to comply with the FCA's rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Gallium's behalf, didn't comply with its regulatory obligations. Had 
it done so Mr B wouldn't have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have concluded 
that it shouldn't allow Mr B to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively and 
individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr B or 
the loss he has suffered.
Gallium's response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigator's view. It said, in summary: 
On the scope of Mr B's complaint
The available evidence indicates clearly that the complainant was properly 
categorised as a restricted investor based on their own certification to that effect. The 
investment process undertaken by the complainant was sufficient to comply with FCA 
rules and guidance and to ensure that the investment was an appropriate one for 
him. The actions of the complainant subsequent to making the investment in the 
Basset & Gold bonds indicates that he would have taken the same actions in any 
event. It thought the case ought to have been dismissed on this basis.
On the certification process
Regardless of label, Mr B was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. If Mr B misrepresented that he fulfilled 
those criteria, it is a well-established legal position that he should be estopped from 
now seeking to take a position contrary to that representation. It would not be fair or 
reasonable to expect Gallium to anticipate that investors would incorrectly claim to 
satisfy the requirements of the declaration.
Its not fair or reasonable to conclude that the use of the word "everyday contributed 
to Mr B giving an incorrect declaration, by causing him to pay insufficient attention to 
the terms of the declaration.
Mr B ought to be held to the declaration he made that he satisfied the requirements 
of a restricted investor.
On the appropriateness test
Gallium took sufficient steps to satisfy the FCA rules and guidance on appropriateness applicable at the time of the complainants investment.
The fundamental question when assessing appropriateness is whether the client is 
able to understand the risks involved in relation to the product (COBS 10.2.1R).
COBS 10.2.1R notwithstanding, depending on the circumstances, a business may 
conclude that knowledge alone is sufficient for the client to understand the risks 
involved in the product. Equally, a firm may infer knowledge from experience (COBS 
10.2.6G).
Depending on the nature of the client and product complexity and risks, it may be 
appropriate for the business to seek information on the types of investment with 
which the client is familiar, their history of similar investments, and their level of 
education and profession. But there is no requirement to seek all of that information 
in every case; it is required only to the extent it is relevant to assessing whether the 
client was able to understand the risks of the product (COBS 10.2.2R).
The FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around appropriateness since 
Mr B made his investment, and the regulatory environment has changed. At the time 
of the investment, however, the FCA had publicly articulated different expectations. 
We must apply regulatory expectations as they existed at the relevant time and not 
seek to apply the different standards that exist today in a retrospective manner.
In 2014 there had been discussions between the FCA and crowdfunding industry as 
to what the FCA expected businesses to do to ensure investments were appropriate 
for investors. The guidance took the form of two question and answer sessions with 
the FCA's Head of lnvestment Policy and UK Crowdfunding Association ("UKCFA"). 
These sessions addressed, in particular, the question of whether investor experience 
and education needed to form part of an appropriateness assessment. Gallium had 
regard to this guidance when considering BG Ltd's appropriateness testing.
It understands that guidance provided by the FCA in those industry meetings clarified 
that firms were able to satisfy themselves of what information was pertinent to their 
investment process. Importantly, in appropriate circumstances, the FCA would not 
insist on an appropriateness test containing questions about education or prior 
investment experience.
In any event, Gallium did in fact carry out adequate testing of investors' relevant 
knowledge and experience. Gallium required prospective investors to pass the 
appropriateness test by correctly answering 100% of the questions asked. In 
completing the appropriateness test, information was obtained about an investors 
knowledge and experience of the key characteristics of the bonds.
Mr B also certified that he was an "everyday investor, confirming I have made 
investments in similar products in the last 30 months and/or I am familiar with this 
type of Investment."
Further, all investors also expressly confirmed that the bonds "may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property Invested and they had 
read and understood the Invitation Document including the terms and conditions of 
the bonds and associated risks. The Invitation Document provided investors with full 
details of the nature of the investment and its risks.
Taken together, the appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient 
knowledge and experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds 
involved, per COBS 10.2.1(2) R.
The fact Mr B was able to invest demonstrates that he answered the appropriateness 
test correctly and gave the confirmations. Gallium was entitled to conclude that he 
had answered each question honestly and conscientiously, and in so doing had 
demonstrated he understood the investment opportunity.
COBS 10.2.4R provides that [a] firm is entitled to rely on the information provided by 
a client unless it is aware that the information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or 
incomplete. Gallium had no such awareness.
If Mr B misrepresented his knowledge and experience, in accordance with well-
established legal principles explained above, he should be estopped from taking a 
position contrary to his own representation. If investors were willing to give false 
information in response to the appropriateness test and the confirmations, there is no 
basis to suppose they would have given accurate information had further questions 
been asked.
On whether Mr B would have proceeded with the investment in any event
Mr B was notified in clear terms in January 2019 that there was a concentration risk 
arising from the high proportion of funds being lent to one entity, carrying out one 
type of lending. The risks this entailed were explained in clear terms to his and he 
was given the opportunity to seek to redeem his bond but took no steps to do so.
The investigator says the complainant was not prepared to take any risk of loss of 
capital. The available evidence does not support that conclusion. 
Mr B expressly acknowledged on numerous occasions that by proceeding with the 
investment he was at risk of losing the capital invested. Mr B cannot now be 
permitted to suggest that he would not have put his capital at risk, when he confirmed 
on numerous occasions that he understood and acknowledged that his capital was at 
risk.
Nor can the decision rationally conclude either that there is nothing in the evidence to 
suggest that Mr B wanted to take any risk with his money. Not only is there evidence 
to demonstrate that Mr B specifically acknowledged the risk to his money, but there is 
also an absence of any evidence to suggest that Mr B was not prepared to take that 
risk.
The 7.46% interest rate evidences Mr B knew the investment was not risk free  the 
Bank or England Base Rate was well below 1% so its not realistic to suggest he did 
not appreciate or accept the risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service  is an informal  dispute  resolution  forum.  A 
complaint made  to us need  not be, and rarely is, made  out with the clarity of formal legal pleadings.  As recognised by the High Court in R (Williams)  v Financial 
Ombudsman  Service  [2008)  EWHC   2142,  our service  deals  with complaints not 
causes of action.  Our jurisdiction  is inquisitorial, not adversarial.
The complaint  concerns  what  Mr B considers  to be a mis-sale  of the bond  by BG Ltd, 
the provision  of misleading  information  by BG Ltd, and the ongoing  management  of the 
bond.  In my view these  points  are within  the scope  of Mr Bs complaint  and are, in any 
event,  points  which  it is appropriate  for me to consider  inquisitorially,  given  the nature  
of his complaint.
I have  also,  for completeness,  considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to 
decide  whether  we can consider  Mr B's complaint.
Rule  DISP  2.3.1R  says  we can:
Consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying on regulated activities ... or any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance al DISP 2.3.3G says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firm ... has accepted responsibility).
The bond was a security or contractually based investment specified in the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 ("RAO"). At the time Mr B 
made his investment, the RAO said regulated activities include arranging deals in 
investments. Acts such as obtaining and assisting in the completion of an application form 
and sending it off, with the client's payment, to the investment issuer would come within the 
scope of Article 25(1), when the arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the 
transaction. So, I am satisfied the online application process falls within the scope or Article 
25(1). These all involved making arrangements for Mr B to invest in the bond and had the 
direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
So, I am satisfied Mr B's complaint - insofar as it relates to the bond application process  is 
about regulated activities. I am also satisfied this part of the complaint is about acts for which 
Gallium accepted responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and can be considered in 
a complaint against it.
I am not able to consider B&G Plc's issuing of the bond or what B&G Plc did with the money 
once Mr B invested. B&G Plcs issuing of the bond and what B&G Plc did with the money 
once Mr B invested did not Involve regulated activities.
I am of the view that in this case the focus is on the acts or omissions of BG Ltd, as it was 
BG Ltd which was responsible for the sale of the bond.
The merits of Mr B's complaint
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have first considered what the relevant 
considerations are in this case. 
Relevant considerationsI have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In my view the key consideration as to what is fair and reasonable in this case is whether 
Gallium met its regulatory obligations when BG Ltd, acting on its behalf, carried out the acts 
the complaint is about. I consider the following regulatory obligations to be of particular 
relevance here.
The Principles for Businesses
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCA's Handbook "are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system" (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 are 7 are relevant here. They provide:
Principle 6 - Customers' interests - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 7 - Communications with clients -A firm must pay due regard to the 
information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which 
is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 4  Communicating with clients, including financial promotions
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2 - Fair, Clear and not misleading communications, which I 
also consider to be relevant here:
COBS 4.2.1R:
(1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear 
and not misleading.
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10. I have set out below 
what I consider to be the relevant rules, in the form they existed at the time.
COBS 4.7  Direct offer financial promotions
COBS 4.7.7R:
(1) Unless permitted by COBS 4.7.8 R, a firm must not communicate or approve a 
direct-offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security to or for 
communication to a retail client without the conditions in (2) and (3) being satisfied.
(2) The first condition is that the retail client recipient of the direct-offer financial 
promotion is one of the following:
(a) certified as a 'high net worth investor' in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(b) certified as a 'sophisticated investor' in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(c) self-certified as a 'Sophisticated Investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;(d)  certified as a 'restricted investor' in accordance with COBS 4.7.10 R.
(3) The second condition is that firm itself or the person who will arrange or deal in 
relation to the non-readily realisable security will comply with the rules on 
appropriateness (see COBS 10) or equivalent requirements for any application or 
order that the person is aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, is in response to the 
direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 4.7.10R:
A certified restricted investor is an individual who has signed, within a period of 
twelve months ending with the day on which the communication is made, a statement 
in the following terms:
RESTRICTED INVESTOR STATEMENT
I make this statement so that I can receive promotional communications relating to 
non-readily realisable securities as a restricted investor. I declare that I qualify as a 
restricted investor because:
(a) In the twelve months preceding the date below, I have not invested more than 
10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities; and
(b) I undertake that in the twelve months following the date below, I will not invest 
more than 10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
Net assets for these purposes do not include:
(a) the property which is my primary residence or any money raised through a loan 
secured on that property;
(b) any rights of mine under a qualifying contract of insurance; or
(c) any benefits (In the form of pensions or otherwise) which are payable on the 
termination of my service or on my death or retirement and to which I am (or my 
dependents are), or may be entitled: or
(d) any withdrawals from my pension savings (except where the withdrawals are 
used directly for income in retirement).
I accept that the investments to which the promotions will relate may expose me to a 
significant risk of losing all of the money or other property invested. I am aware that it 
is open to me to seek advice from an authorised person who specialises in advising 
on non-readily realisable securities.
Signature:
Date:
COBS 10-Appropriateness (for non-advised services)
At the time COBS 10.1.2R said:This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily 
realisable security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is 
aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response 
to a direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10.2.1R:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client 
to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment 
field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to 
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for 
the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product 
or service offered or demanded:
COBS 10.2.2 R:
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment field 
includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of the 
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including their 
complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is 
familiar:
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments 
and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client.
10.2.6G  Knowledge and experience:
Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the clients knowledge 
alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks involved in a product or service. 
Where reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience.
COBS 10.3 Warning the client COBS 10.3.1R:
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess 
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm 
must warn the client.
COBS 10.3.2R:
(1) If the client elects not to provide the information to enable the firm to assess 
appropriateness, or if he provides insufficient information regarding his knowledge 
and experience, the firm must warn the client that such a decision will not allow the 
firm to determine whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for him.
COBS 1 0.3.3G:If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning 
by the firm. it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the 
circumstances.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCA's policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCA's Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have had regard 
to the policy statement, and to Galliums recollections of the two question and answer 
sessions.
I have taken careful account of these relevant considerations, to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and given careful consideration to all Gallium has said.
My decision, in summary, is as follows:
BG Ltd, acting on Gallium's behalf, misled Mr B into certifying himself as belonging to 
a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor") by changing the term 
used in the rules to "everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr B fairly or acting in his best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr B, it is unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr B. In the circumstances Mr B would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr B.
For these reasons - individually and cumulatively - my decision is that Mr B's complaint 
should be upheld. Im also satisfied Mr B would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so, I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr B for his loss.
I have set things out in more detail below.
The online application process
There were a number of regulatory obligations which applied to the sale of the B&G Plc 
bond. The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it 
could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These are the two conditions set out in COBS 4.7.7R which must be 
satisfied before a business such as BG Ltd (here acting on Gallium's behalf) could 
communicate or approve a direct-offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable 
security such as the bonds issued by B&G Plc.
The online application took steps toward meeting the rules which set out how a business 
must satisfy the two conditions, which I have set out above. I will consider the steps taken by 
BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, in relation to each in turn.
At the outset I think it is important to emphasise the bond Mr B invested in was not a 
straightforward product. Risk factors associated with the bond included the track record of 
B&G Plc, the detail of its due diligence on the businesses it would be lending to, the criteria 
B&G Plc applied to its lending and the conditions on which the loan was made. The credit 
history of the business the loan was made to would also need to be considered, its capacity 
to repay, and its capital position.  Furthermore, as the business B&G Plc was lending to was itself lending, the lending criteria it applied, the default rate and the success of its past 
lending would need to be considered. All of these points (and this is not an exhaustive list) 
would need to be considered in order to understand the investment.
In the market for corporate bonds listed on the main exchanges, institutions  ratings 
agencies - carry out analysis work to assess the risk associated with a bond and express a 
view (a "rating), and investment managers often carry out further credit analysis before 
deciding to invest in a bond. Here there were no such aids to a consumer's understanding of 
the product. There was also a liquidity risk. The bond was not listed on a recognised 
exchange, and so could not be readily sold (in fact it seems to have been a condition of the 
investment that it could not be transferred). And, as Gallium has pointed out, the Invitation 
Document which set out the details of the bond was over 40 pages long. I have read the 
document and it contains a lot of complex technical information which may not be readily 
understood by the average investor.
So, the bond was complex, risky and specialist and this is why the bond fell into a category 
of investment on which the FCA puts restrictions as to who it could be promoted. And an 
obvious risk of consumer detriment arises if the rules relating to this are not properly applied. 
The importance of Gallium fully meeting its regulatory obligations here was therefore high.
Its responsibility was significant. And the steps it took to meet its regulatory obligations need 
to be considered with that in mind.
Certification
The first condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required a retail client, such as Mr B, to be 
certified as being in one of four categories of investor in order to receive promotional 
communications relating to the bond. In this case, Mr B was certified as a "restricted 
investor". The detail of this category and the process by which an investor can certify 
themselves as belonging to it is set out in COBS 4.7.10R, which I have quoted above.
I am of the view the certification stage of the application stage on BG Ltd's website did not 
meet the requirements of COBS 4.7.10R in a number of ways.
Firstly, BG Ltd did not use the correct term  restricted investor - it instead used the term 
"everyday investor".
Secondly, the statement, confirmation and declaration Mr B was asked to make included 
some of the wording set out in 4.7.10R - but not all of it. And additions had been made. The 
title or the statement also departed from the wording set out in 4.7.10R - it was described as 
an Everyday Investor Statement.
Finally, BG Ltd provided its own definition of a restricted (or, as it put it. "everyday") investor, 
as follows:
"Anyone can become an Everyday Investor. You just need to agree to not make 
more than 10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, bonds and 
property excluding your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be sold 
i.e. Illiquid). This is why the FCA refers to these investors as 'Restricted Investors."
But the requirements set out in 4.7.10R are much further reaching than "You just need to 
agree to not make more than 10% of your investments (including savings, stocks, ISAs, 
bonds and property excluding your primary residence) in investments that cannot easily be 
sold.4.7.10R requires the prospective investor to agree to all of the following:
In the twelve months preceding the certification date, not to have invested more than 
10% of their net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
To undertake that in the twelve months following the certification date, they will not 
invest more than 10% of my net assets in non-readily realisable securities.
To accept that the investments may expose them to a significant risk of losing all of 
the money invested.
To be aware that it is open to them to seek advice from an authorised person who 
specialises in advising on non-readily realisable securities.
I have considered the impact of these departures from the requirements of 4.7.10R.
As set out in the background above, Mr B was offered the option of four "investor profiles, 
after he had completed the first stages of his application. The options, other than "everyday 
investor" were "self certified sophisticated investor, "advised investor" or high net worth 
investor.
I am of the view the change of the term restricted investor" to "everyday investor and BG 
Ltd's definition of this being a category to which anyone could belong, by simply agreeing 
to not make more than 10% of their investments in investments that cannot easily be sold, 
had the effect of making the restricted investor category appear to be one into which 
investors like Mr B would naturally fall.
"Restricted is, by its common and ordinary meaning, something which is limited in amount 
or range. Synonyms include words like limited, constricted and controlled. And what is set 
out in 4.7.10R is consistent with this. "Everyday is, by its common and ordinary meaning, 
something which is ordinary, typical or usual and is inconsistent with what is set out in 
4.7.10R. The change of the term was also likely to alter how it was perceived. This is 
compounded by BG Ltd's definition of a restricted investor as being a category to which 
"anyone" can belong. Clearly not "anyone" can belong to a restricted category.
I am of the view this put undue emphasis on the everyday investor" option and led 
consumers like Mr B to selecting this option when they may not have done so otherwise. I do 
not think it was fair or reasonable for BG Ltd to act in this way. It was not treating Mr B fairly 
or acting in his best interests. BG Ltd ought to have known that changing the term created a 
risk of consumers perceiving a restricted investor to be something different to what it was, 
and certifying themselves incorrectly as a result, and risked consumers skipping through this 
as a formality.
I note Gallium says It would not be fair or reasonable to expect it to anticipate that investors 
would incorrectly claim to satisfy the requirements of a restricted investor. I have not been 
persuaded on this point. If you change the description of a category from "restricted" to an 
"everyday one to which "anyone can belong an obvious risk is that prospective investors 
who do not belong in the category mistake the category as being one to which they do 
belong. Indeed, it is difficult to see why BG Ltd departed from 4.7.10R and changed the term 
and definition other than to get investors to certify themselves as being eligible to receive a 
promotion of the bond when they might not otherwise have done so. In my view this appears 
to have been done to contrive this outcome in a bid to access more investors.I am of the view an "everyday investor - particularly when described as a category to which 
anyone" can belong, is an option Mr B would immediately have understood or could 
resonate with as that term is a reasonable description of an investor with his characteristics 
- someone without significant investment experience or assets who was looking to invest a 
modest amount to provide a better return on his investments. In my view Mr B would have 
been attracted to this profile based on his understanding and perception of the word 
"everyday and the description of it as a category to which anyone can belong.
Mr B did not qualify as a restricted investor. At the time of investing Mr B was almost 79 and 
his savings were invested in building society accounts and Premium Bonds that he had 
accumulated through a lifetime of saving. He was investing around 15% of his savings in the 
bonds and he hadnt made investments in similar products in the last 30 months. So I am 
satisfied there is sufficient evidence to make a finding Mr B was unlikely to be aware of the 
significant risk associated with the bonds - considering Mr B has told us that "he had no 
previous investment experience, and this was the first time he had invested in a bond of this 
nature".
I note Gallium's view is that Mr B nonetheless gave the statement, confirmation and 
declaration, that it is not credible to say he would have completely disregarded the detail of 
these, and that it was reasonable for it to rely on them.
I acknowledge that the statement, confirmation and declaration did largely mirror what is set 
out in 4.7.10R and so Mr B did state, confirm and declare something which was not 
accurate. However, I am of the view it is unlikely Mr B knowingly gave a false statement. The 
money invested was significant to him as it was 15% of all his savings. So, I think it unlikely 
that he had regard to the full detail of the statement, confirmation and declaration and chose 
to proceed having understood them in full. I think it instead likely that he did not consider the 
detail of what he was being asked to agree to as he understood it to be an everyday i.e. 
ordinary, typical or usual category, to which "anyone could belong. And, as mentioned 
above, I think BG Ltd should have been aware this was a possible consequence of it 
changing the wording required by the FCA's rules.
I note Gallium's reference to case law relating to circumstances where someone is seeking 
to take a position contrary to an earlier representation. The law is a relevant consideration 
which I need to take into account. But I am of the view the case law Gallium has referred to 
is quite different to the facts of this case. The Bank of Leumi v Wachner case, for example, 
relates to circumstances where Ms Wachner was clearly a wealthy, sophisticated investor 
with lots of experience of previous similar investments and in that situation the court decided 
that it was fair for the business to rely on the professional client declaration made and that it 
was likely Ms Wachner did understand the papers he signed. The situation is quite different 
here, where Mr B is investing a significant amount of his savings and has no investment 
experience. Mr B's complaint is about what he generally describes as a "mis- sale". And Mr 
B is not making a legal claim - my role here is to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, on the basis I have set out. I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to 
say the statement, confirmation and declaration should be relied on in circumstances where, 
in my view, Mr B was misled into giving them.
I think it is unlikely Mr B would have made the statement, confirmation and declaration at all 
had the correct "restricted investor" term been used and had the website not presented the 
restricted investor category as being an "everyday one into which anyone could fall. I 
think, in the circumstances, the correct term would have made Mr B pause for thought. As 
mentioned, he had no investment experience and was investing a sum which was significant 
to him. I do not think in such circumstances he would have proceeded had he been told he 
was a "restricted" investor. As mentioned above, I think "restricted" has a very different 
meaning to everyday". The latter would have provided comfort to Mr B whereas the former would have made him pause for thought and realise that was a category to which he did not 
belong. I also think it unlikely he would have described himself as a "self-certified 
sophisticated investor, an advised investor or  a high net worth investor" as it would have 
been clear from the descriptions of those categories that he did not fit into them either.
So, I am satisfied if BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, had acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet Gallium's regulatory obligations Mr B would not have got beyond this stage. The first 
condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have proceeded 
beyond this. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr B's complaint on this 
basis alone. I have however, for completeness, gone on to consider the appropriateness 
test.
Appropriateness
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required BG Ltd to comply with the rules on 
appropriateness, set out in COBS 10 and quoted in the relevant considerations section 
above.
The rules at the time (COBS 10.2.1R) required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, to ask 
Mr B to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience - and for this 
information to be relevant to the product offered (the first limb of the rule). The rules required 
that information to then be assessed, to determine whether Mr B did have the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved (the second limb of the 
rule).
As set out above, COBS 10.2.2 R required BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, when 
considering what information to ask for, to consider the nature of the service provided, the 
type of product (including its complexity and risks) and for it to include, to the extent 
appropriate to the nature of the client:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client is 
familiar:
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments 
and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
I am of the view BG Ltd failed to ask for an appropriate amount of information about Mr B's 
knowledge and experience, as required by COBS 10.2.1R and COBS 10.2.2 R. 
BG Ltd did not refer to an appropriateness test on the website - it instead referred to just a 
few more questions (required by law). I think this, in itself, is a further example of BG Ltd 
downplaying the significance of the regulatory requirements and attempting to make them 
appear as a formality, as it did under the certification section.
Under the "few more questions section BG Ltd asked five questions which tested 
knowledge. These questions asked whether Mr B knew if the bonds were transferable, if the 
return was fixed, if their capital was secure, if the bonds could be converted to shares and 
the meaning of diversification. Nothing was asked about Mr B's experience. And if Mr B got a 
question wrong, he would be told his answer was wrong and prompted to reconsider it.
Even if Mr B did know the correct answer to all five questions without prompting this only 
showed he understood the bonds were not transferrable, the return was fixed, capital was at 
risk, whether the bonds could be converted into shares and was able to select a correct 
answer from two options as to what the definition of diversification was.I believe this falls a long way short of adequately testing whether Mr B had the knowledge to 
understand the risk associated with the bonds - particularly in circumstances where the 
multiple-choice options were limited to two and Mr B was allowed repeated efforts to get 
them right. The risks, as I set out earlier, were complex and multifactorial. It was not, for 
example, a question of whether Mr B simply understood money could be lost - but whether 
he was able to understand how likely that might be and what factors might lead to it 
happening.
Gallium has referred to it being reasonable to rely on the statement, confirmation and 
declaration given during the restricted or "everyday" investors stage of Mr Bs application. I 
acknowledge BG Ltd asked Mr B to declare, at the previous stage "I am familiar with this 
type of investment and "I have made investments in similar products in the last 30 months". 
And it says this means it did have some information about Mr B's experience, and additional 
information about his knowledge. However, I am of the view, even accounting for the 
declaration, an appropriate level of information was not asked for. I also believe, for the 
reasons I have set out in the previous section, the statement, confirmation and declaration 
could not reasonably be relied on in the circumstances in which it was obtained.
As the first limb of COBS 10.2.1R was not met, BG Ltd was unable to carry out the 
assessment required under the second limb. BG Ltd should have been confident from the 
information it asked for, that it was able to assess if Mr B had the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved with investment in the bond. But it was 
not in a position to make such an assessment based on the information it obtained.
In its response Gallium referred to 10.2.6G which says there may be circumstances in which 
a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge alone is sufficient for them to understand 
the risks involved in a product or service.
These were not such circumstances - not least because BG Ltd did not ask for an 
appropriate amount of information about Mr B's knowledge. The guidance in any event does 
not supplant the rules and in my view it is clearly meant to apply where the client has been 
asked about both knowledge and experience, as the rules require, and the information 
obtained shows knowledge is high and experience is low. It does not say a business can ask 
only about knowledge when conducting an appropriateness test.
Gallium has referred to the industry conferences with the FCA and to the FCA's policy 
statement PS14/04. This relates to the regulation of firms operating online crowdfunding 
platforms or conducting other similar activities. It does not however specify what guidance 
from the FCA it received, and I have seen no evidence to show that any guidance provided 
to Gallium implied it did not have to ask about Mr B's experience at all.
I have read the policy statement, and it simply confirms the rules on appropriateness apply 
and must be followed. I note, for example, the statement confirms, at 4.24, that firms are 
required to assess whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge to 
understand the risk involved. In relation to the crowdfunding coming under its regulation the 
FCA's proposal (which was adopted), summarised at 4.6, was:
"where no advice was provided, that all firms (MiFID and non-MiFID) must check that 
clients have the knowledge and experience needed to understand the risks involved 
before being invited to respond to an offer
The policy statement does not therefore change my view that BG Ltd, acting on behalf of 
Gallium, did not meet its regulatory obligations. And I have seen no evidence to show the 
FCA gave guidance to Gallium otherwise which would have led it to conclude its 
appropriateness test was adequate.In any event - and notwithstanding what I say above about COBS 10.2.1R and 10.2.6G  it 
remains the case that as Gallium did not ask for sufficient information about Mr B's 
knowledge, it was not in a position to assess whether his knowledge alone was sufficient.
Gallium also suggests the FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around 
appropriateness since Mr B made his investment in 2017, and the regulatory environment 
has changed since then. To be clear, my findings are based on the rules that existed at the 
time.
Had the process been consistent with what the rules required  had Mr B been asked for 
appropriate information about his knowledge and experience - the only reasonable 
conclusion BG Ltd could have reached, having assessed this, was that Mr B did not have the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved with the bond.
Mr B did not have any investment experience and I have seen no evidence to show he had 
anything other than a very basic knowledge of investments. As noted above, he has told us 
he had had no previous investment experience and this was the first time he had invested in 
a bond of this nature".
If BG Ltd assessed that the bond was not appropriate, COBS 10.3.1R said a warning must 
be given and the guidance at COBS 10.3.3G said a business could consider whether in the 
circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if the client wished to proceed, despite the 
warning.
Gallium has said if customers answered one or more questions incorrectly that means they 
received the warning that the bonds may not be appropriate and elected to proceed anyway. 
But, if a warning was given, it was not given in a way which met COBS 10.3.1R. This 
envisages the test being completed, and a result determined, before the warning was given. 
As BG Ltd designed the test the only warning was in response to incorrect answers and 
simply said "if you are unfamiliar with the features of this investment then it might not be 
suitable for you". In my view this does not meet what is required by COBS 10.3.1R, which is 
a warning that the product is not appropriate. And, by allowing Mr B the opportunity to 
effectively silence the warning through selecting a different answer, the impact of it was 
reduced in any event.
The process also did not give BG Ltd the opportunity to consider whether in the 
circumstances to go ahead with the transaction if Mr B wished to proceed, despite the 
warning.
A warning which told Mr B clearly an investment in the bond was not appropriate for him 
would likely have put him off proceeding further. That is a clear, emphatic statement which 
would have left him in no doubt the bond was not an appropriate investment for him. And he 
ought to have been privy to such a warning, had an appropriateness test consistent with the 
requirements of the rules been conducted.
Furthermore - and separately from any acceptance of a warning by Mr B - had BG Ltd given 
itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances whether to go ahead with the 
transaction if Mr B wished to proceed, having asked for appropriate information about Mr B's 
knowledge and experience, it would have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it 
should not allow Mr B to proceed. Had Mr B been asked for appropriate information about 
his knowledge and experience this would have shown he may not have the capacity to fully 
understand the risk associated with the bond. As mentioned, I have seen no evidence to 
show Mr B had anything other than a very basic knowledge of investments. In these 
circumstances, it would not have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it should proceed if Mr B wanted to, despite a warning (which, as noted, was not in any event given in 
the required terms or required way).
All in all, I am satisfied BG Ltd, acting on behalf of Gallium, did not act fairly and reasonably 
when assessing appropriateness. By assessing appropriateness in the way it did it was not 
treating Mr B fairly or acting in his best interests. If it had acted fairly and reasonably to meet 
the relevant regulatory obligations when assessing appropriateness, Mr B would not have 
got beyond this stage. And I think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr B's complaint 
on this basis alone. Even if I am wrong to say Mr B would not have said he was a "restricted 
investor" and given the statement, confirmation and declaration relating to this, had BG Ltd, 
on behalf of Gallium, acted differently (and for the reasons I have set out, I still do not 
consider that to be the case), Mr B would not have got beyond this second stage.
The second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have 
proceeded beyond this.
Invitation Document
Gallium has referred to the explanation of risks set out in the Invitation Document. However, 
I am of the view things need to be considered in the order in which Mr B would have been 
privy to them. Mr B could only have been privy to the Invitation Document after having 
completed the certification and appropriateness test. And, as I set out above, I do not think 
Mr B should have reached this point.
I acknowledge that Mr B may have seen the Invitation Document, as he was incorrectly 
certified as a restricted investor as a result of being misled by BG Ltd and the bond was 
incorrectly assessed as being appropriate for him due to BG Ltd failing to meet its regulatory 
obligations in relation to this. However, considering the available evidence, I think it unlikely 
Mr B looked at the Invitation Document in any detail and that he did not have the capacity to 
fully understand it even if he did look at it in detail.
So, I am of the view Gallium cannot reasonably rely on the Invitation Document to say Mr B 
had an understanding of the bond and proceeded on that basis.
I think it is also important to say that an objective of the appropriateness test was to protect 
consumers such as Mr B from receiving communications about investments which were not 
appropriate for them. One obvious reason for this being that such consumers may not be 
able to fully understand these communications. So, it would not be fair and reasonable to 
say, where the test has not been applied as set out in the rules and an incorrect conclusion 
reached on appropriateness as a result, that any knowledge subsequently acquired from the 
Invitation Document can be used in an effort to retrospectively satisfy the test.
The website and any other marketing material
For similar reasons to those given above, I am of the view I do not need to consider anything 
else (i.e. other than the application stages set out) Mr B may have been privy to before 
making the investment. I say this because nothing else that could have been conceivably 
shown on the website or elsewhere changes the position that Mr B would not - and could not 
- have satisfied the first or second conditions in COBS 4.7.7R and therefore could not 
receive promotional communications relating to the bond.
Is it fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr B?I have considered all the points Gallium has made. However, for the reasons given, I am 
satisfied that if BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, had acted fairly and reasonably to meet its 
regulatory obligations Mr B could not - or would not - have proceeded to invest in the bond.
Mr B could not have satisfied the first or second conditions in COBS 4.7.7R in order to 
receive promotional communications relating to the bond. And even if I am wrong about the 
first condition, Mr B could not have passed an appropriateness test which met the 
requirements of the rules and so could not have met the second condition, in any event. And 
even if he had said he wanted to proceed following a warning (and such a warning had been 
given in a way which was consistent with the rules) I do not think, as I set out above, that it 
would have been fair and reasonable for BG Ltd to conclude it should allow Mr B to proceed.
So, Mr B should not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet its regulatory obligations. The starting point is therefore that it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr B for the loss he has suffered as a result of making the investment.
Gallium states that customers acknowledged that by proceeding with the investment they 
were at risk of losing the capital invested, and this is evidence they would have proceeded to 
invest in the bond regardless of what it did. It adds that the high return offered reflected the 
fact capital was at risk and it is unrealistic to think that Mr B was not aware of this and 
prepared to take a risk with his capital.
Gallium has also referred to the January 2019 update email. It says the wording of this 
notice was approved by the FCA as being appropriate wording to inform investors of the risk 
and it is, therefore, unreasonable to find that this notice was not adequate, or that it gave 
investors insufficient warning.
I do not think it would be fair to say Mr B should not be compensated on this basis. Firstly, 
he should not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet 
its regulatory obligations. Secondly, for the reasons I have given, I am not in any event 
persuaded Mr B did proceed with a full understanding of the risks associated with the bond.
As noted above, I am not persuaded Mr B looked at the full detail of the acknowledgements 
he gave, and I think he was reassured by the "everyday investors description associated 
with them. And, given what Mr B has said about his understanding of the bond, and his lack 
of investment experience, I am not persuaded he understood from the relatively high return 
on offer that the investment involved significant risk.
Turning to the 2019 email, what I am considering here is the impact of the warning in the 
specific circumstances of Mr B complaint and what impact it actually had. I do think the 
wording of this email was largely reassuring and it is fair to consider that it had very little 
impact (Gallium says that only one of 1,700 Investors who received this email took any 
action). I have not seen any further evidence on the FCA's approval or this communication 
but, even if it was approved as an adequate general warning, I need to consider it in the 
context of the facts of this individual complaint. And I do not think it follows from any 
approval by the FCA that it would not be fair to ask Gallium to pay compensation in 
circumstances such as those in this complaint.
As mentioned, I am not persuaded Mr B had the capacity to fully understand the risks 
associated with the bond - and he was in this position because BG Ltd, acting on behalf of 
Gallium, did not act fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations at the outset. And 
I think this is sufficient reason for me to find it would not be fair to say the January 2019 
update means Mr B should not be compensated for the loss he suffered.
I am therefore satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr B.In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration - individually and cumulatively - I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint. I am satisfied, for all the 
reasons given, that Mr B would not have invested in the bond had BG Ltd, on behalf of 
Gallium, acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And I think it is fair to 
ask Gallium to compensate Mr B for the loss he has suffered.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bond.
I think Mr B would have invested differently, it is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr 
B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Gallium do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest award.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B & G Plc 
bondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr B agrees to Gallium taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr B that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, I'll accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why Is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted to achieve a reasonable return without any significant risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr B's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr B would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Ltd should pay Mr B the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman