DRN-1476286
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that U K Insurance Limited hasnt settled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy as non-fault after telling her it would do this. Miss C is represented in this 
matter by Miss H. 
What happened
Miss C was involved in a collision with another driver and she made a claim. UKI later told 
Miss H that the claim would be settled as non-fault, Miss Cs excess refunded and her No 
Claims Discount (NCD) would be unaffected. But UKI found that this was an error and UKI 
then told Miss C that liability was still in dispute with the other drivers insurer. After Miss C 
complained, UKI awarded her £100 compensation and allowed her NCD. But Miss C wants 
the claim recorded as non-fault and her excess refunded. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI was 
still disputing liability for the claim with the other insurer. And so he thought it couldnt tell 
Miss C the claim was settled as non-fault. He also thought that UKIs response to Miss Cs 
complaint and its offer to allow her NCD and pay her £100 compensation was fair and 
reasonable.
Miss H replied that the complaint wasnt about liability, but it was about UKIs interaction with 
Miss C. She said UKIs offer to settle the claim as non-fault was considered and binding. She 
thought it should stand by what it had agreed to. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss C feels frustrated with UKIs change of mind about the liability for 
this claim. Miss H has explained that this has caused her financial hardship. I was sorry to 
hear this.
Miss H has made it clear that the complaint isnt about the liability decision, but about UKIs 
breach of a verbal contract. Ive considered her concern about UKIs change in stance but 
must put this in the context of UKIs decision on liability. 
I can see that Miss H understands that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for the 
accident, but whether UKI has acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policy 
terms and conditions. Miss H said that shed called UKI to find out what was happening with 
the claim. She said UKI told her that both sides were disputing liability and as the other 
insurer belonged to the same parent company UKI was unable to take it to court. 
Miss H said the agent, after consultation with a senior, said UKI would offer Miss C a non-
fault outcome, refund her excess and allow her NCD. I can see from UKIs files that this 
account was correct. Miss H said she accepted this verbal offer on Miss Cs behalf. And she 
told us that this was confirmed in writing.
Having looked at UKIs files, I can see that it realised the error on the same day. It tried to 
contact Miss C without success, but it didnt leave a voice mail or email her. It was only when 
Miss C didnt receive the refund of her excess five days later and Miss H called UKI again 
that they learned of the mistake and that UKI wouldnt honour its earlier offer.
Miss H thought UKI should honour its verbal offer. She thought it was legally binding. But 
Ive also considered whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I think mistakes are 
made but I dont think it would be fair for Miss C to gain from UKIs error. Instead, where a 
business makes an error, as UKI agrees it has done here, we expect it to restore the 
consumers position, as far as its possible to do so. And we also consider the impact of the 
error on the consumer. 
I think it wouldnt be reasonable for UKI to allow Miss C a non-fault outcome whilst liability 
was still in dispute with the other drivers insurer. UKI thought the damage caused supported 
both versions of events. It couldnt say which driver was at fault even though part of the other 
drivers van was in Miss Cs lane. This was because the van was already established on the 
road, there to be seen in its parlance, and at an angle. 
So UKI accepted a 50/50 split liability offer on a without prejudice basis as the best possible 
outcome. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. And I think it 
reasonably considered the evidence available and the likelihood of being able to defend the 
claim in court before making this decision. This means that Miss C has a fault claim recorded 
against her. But theres no admission of liability so Miss C can take this matter further legally 
if she so chooses. 
Miss C would always have had to pay her policy excess as thats the first part of claim to be 
paid. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for UKI to refund this. But UKIs error 
caused Miss C a loss of expectation. She spent five days thinking the outcome was non fault 
and shed receive a refund of her excess. UKI offered Miss C £100 compensation for this. 
And it agreed to allow her NCD. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances as its 
what Id require in similar circumstances. I dont require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman