DRN-3952345
The complaint
Ms W complains about a number of issues concerning her loan account held with The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
What happened
In March 2020, Ms W took out a loan for £19,000. She was required to pay around £370 per 
month. 
Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, she experienced financial difficulty. RBS 
agreed to a six month payment deferral between April and October 2020. When it came to 
an end, although Ms W paid Novembers contractual payment she told RBS she was still 
struggling financially. They agreed to a three month repayment plan starting from January 
2021, she was required to pay £1 a month. 
Ms W complained about a number issues including but not limited to:
- She was led to believe RBS agreed to a repayment plan in December 2020 but that 
wasnt set up. She was also told the plan wouldnt affect her credit file;
- The above resulted in a missed payment marker being recorded on her credit file;
- While on the three month repayment plan, RBS recorded adverse markers on her 
credit file for March 2021;
- Due to the above issues with her credit file, she was declined a business loan;
- RBS provided conflicting information, failed to call her back when agreed and sent 
written correspondence despite there being an ongoing complaint;
- The situation had caused considerable distress and upset which negatively impacted 
her health.  
In November 2021, the account defaulted. The outstanding balance was over £21,200.
In response, RBS said:
- They accept Ms W was given incorrect information about the repayment plan. To put 
things right, they updated her credit file to show the account was in an arrangement 
to pay for December 2020. They also refunded the contractual payment and the 
interest for that month. They agreed to pay £75 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused;
- They initially recorded March 2021s payment as being missed, which was incorrect.  
However theyve updated the credit file to show the account was in an arrangement 
to pay between January to March 2021. They have no control how that information 
was recorded with other CRAs that they dont report to. They agreed to pay £75 
compensation;
- As the account was in arrears, they acted correctly by recording this to the three 
main CRAs.
Unhappy with their response, Ms W referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. They concluded RBS had acted fairly. Ms W 
disagreed and maintained her position. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find RBS have done enough to put things right. Ill explain why. 
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated 
on what I think are the key issues. This reflects the nature of our service as an informal 
alternative to the courts. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial difficulty 
Im sorry to hear that shortly after taking out the loan, Ms W suffered financial hardship due 
to the pandemic. I appreciate this wouldve been a difficult time for her. In response, RBS 
agreed to a three month payment deferral, which was later extended by another three 
months. I find RBS acted reasonably and in line with the financial regulators guidance about 
providing such immediate and temporary support to those negatively impacted by the 
pandemic. 
The guidance allowed a payment deferral for up to six months. Once it ended, if the 
borrower was unable to resume the contractual payments, firms were expected to gather 
information about their financial circumstances and offer options of suitable support. When 
doing so, I expect them to act fairly and in the interest of the borrower. The guidances 
examples of such support include suspending interest, accepting token payments for a 
reasonable period and agreeing to a payment plan to repay the deferred payments. I must 
point out while refinancing and loan term extensions may be suitable options, they arent an 
automatic right. 
In this case Ms W made it clear she couldnt resume the contractual payments once the 
payment deferral ended. In line with what I would expect, RBS reviewed her financial 
situation to assess what she could afford. They found she didnt have any disposable 
income. Having listened to the relevant call and reviewed RBS contact notes, Ms W 
indicated she expected her situation to improve within the next few months as she had 
secured employment. On that basis, RBS agreed to a three month repayment plan where 
she was required to pay £1 each month (token payments). Given the circumstances at that 
time, I can understand why RBS didnt believe it was appropriate to consider refinancing or extending the term of the loan as it wasnt clear whether Ms W would be able to afford the 
repayments. During that call and another Ive listened to from August 2021, at no point can I 
hear the agents say they would definitely agree to refinance the loan. 
Ms W was told at the end of the three month repayment plan, they would review her financial 
situation. The agent confirmed no interest would be charged during that time. She was also 
told the repayment plan and the arrears would report to the CRAs and it may impact her 
ability to obtain credit. So I cant say Ms W wasnt aware of the same. 
RBS accept Ms W was incorrectly led to believe the repayment plan initially started in 
December 2020. To put things right theyve amended her credit file to show the account was 
in an arrangement to pay. I find thats a fair reflection of how the account was being 
managed. They also refunded that months contractual payment (thereby reducing the 
balance) and waived the interest. I find this was a reasonable resolution.
Based on the statements, Ms W made contractual payments between April and July 2021 
however she made it clear she couldnt afford to pay any more than that on a monthly basis. 
As agreed, RBS carried out a further review of her finances after the three month plan. 
Although her situation had improved (as she now had a disposable income of around £70), 
its clear this wouldnt be sufficient to pay back the several months of missed payments in a 
reasonable period of time bearing in mind she would still be charged interest. On that basis, I 
can understand why RBS proceeded to default the account (meaning all interest and 
charges would stop) rather than extending the loan term. Had they not done so, its most 
likely Ms W wouldve ended up paying significantly more overall for the loan which wouldnt 
have been in her interest. 
Overall, Im satisfied RBS acted fairly and in line with the regulators guidance when 
supporting Ms W during her time of financial difficulty.
The credit file
RBS has provided evidence of what they are reporting to Ms Ws credit file. In line with the 
regulators guidance, no adverse information reported while the payment deferral was in 
place. 
However I wish to stress the guidance says once the deferral ended, RBS were entitled to 
resume normal CRA reporting. It also says if the borrower has made arrangements to clear 
the missed payments (paid them or reached an agreement on how to repay them), it 
shouldnt be considered arrears for reporting purposes.
In this case, when the three month repayment plan was agreed (meaning the contractual 
payments werent met), RBS were entitled to report the same to the CRAs. Ive seen 
templates of letters RBS sent to Ms W confirming any missed payments would impact her 
credit file so I find she was made aware of the same. Ms W complained that for March 2021, 
RBS reported it as missed rather than being in an arrangement to pay. RBS has since 
updated her credit file. 
Based on the evidence presented to me, there is no indication an agreement had been 
reached with RBS about how Ms W would go about repaying the missed payments. For that 
reason, I cant say RBS acted unfairly by recording information to the CRAs that she was 
behind in repayments. 
On Ms Ws credit file, RBS recorded she was behind in repayments for the respective 
amount of months, 2,3,4, etc (that is, payments up to 2,3,4 months behind, etc). Between the payment deferral and the repayment plan, Ms W was around nine months behind in 
payments. Therefore, Im satisfied the information recorded by RBS to the CRAs was a fair 
and accurate reflection of how the account was managed. 
I acknowledge Ms Ws comments that when looking at another CRA, some months show as 
missed payments. RBS has reviewed evidence of the same and confirmed they only report 
to the three main CRAs. So I find its reasonable for them to say they cant be held 
responsible for how other CRAs may report that information. Also I note for some months, 
RBS has reported unknown. Theyve said this is due to the ongoing dispute and it had no 
adverse effect on Ms Ws credit file and I havent been provided with sufficient evidence to 
dispute this. 
Concerning the failed application for the business loan, while I accept an individuals credit 
score would be taken into consideration, there are a number of other factors taken into 
account when a firm decides whether to lend or not. Here, there is insufficient evidence for 
me to reasonably say due to the adverse information initially recorded by RBS on Ms Ws 
credit file directly resulted in a failed application for the business loan. 
Other 
Ms W has complained about the level of service received during this ongoing dispute. Shes 
provided in detail the impact the situation has had on her including her health. Based on the 
level of communication with RBS, it was clear this was causing her distress. I empathise with 
the situation Ms W found herself in.
Although I recognise it was distressing for Ms W, RBS were legally obliged to send her 
written communication relating to the arrears and their intentions to default the account. 
Although there was an ongoing complaint, they werent legally required to put such actions 
on hold.
Nevertheless RBS accept their level of service couldve been better such as providing 
incorrect information in a letter dated April 2021, the confusion about the repayment plan in 
December 2020 and incorrect information reported to the CRAs for March 2021. For this, 
theyve credited £150 to Ms Ws account as compensation. Having carefully considered the 
situation and what Ms W has told our service about the impact on her, I find this is a fair 
amount so I wont be asking RBS to pay anything more.
Overall, Im satisfied RBS treated Ms W fairly during her time of financial difficulty. While I 
accept there were some service failings, I find theyve done enough to put things right so I 
wont be asking them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
I wish to remind RBS, if Ms W is still experiencing financial hardship, I expect them to 
continue to treat her with due consideration and forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Simona ReeseOmbudsman