DRN-3311105
The complaint
Ms R complains that TSB Bank plc stopped paying interest on her Classic Plus account. 
What happened
In January 2015 Ms R opened a Classic Plus account with TSB. Ms R has explained she 
wanted to take advantage of interest TSB pays account holders who are signed up for 
paperless statements. Ms R registered for online banking and paperless statements. TSB 
says Ms R had to accept the account and paperless terms and conditions in order to set up 
her Classic Plus account to receive interest. 
TSBs paperless terms say it will switch back to paper statements if a customer hasnt 
checked their paperless statements for a period of 12 months. The terms also say to receive 
interest, Classic Plus account holders have to register for both paperless correspondence 
and statements. But TSB says it paid Classic Plus account holders, including Ms R, the 
paperless interest incentive until November 2017, regardless of whether they met the 
qualifying criteria. In November 2017, TSB says it took the step of withdrawing this approach 
and stopped paying Ms R interest. 
Last year, Ms R complained to TSB after she found it had stopped paying interest in 
November 2017. TSB sent Ms R a final response and said it had stopped paying interest 
because Ms R failed to select online correspondence as well as paperless statements when 
she signed up to online banking in January 2015. 
Ms R referred her complaint to this service and it was upheld by an investigator. They asked 
TSB to honour interest payments from November 2017 onwards. TSB asked to appeal, so 
Ms Rs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the account and paperless terms and conditions supplied by TSB. I agree they 
require customers to register for both paperless correspondence and statement and 
periodically check their accounts. But, I think TSBs actions in this case led Ms R to believe 
she fulfilled the qualifying criteria.
TSB has told us Ms R didnt meet the requirement for receiving credit interest because she 
failed to register for paperless correspondence as well as statements. But TSB paid Ms R 
interest as if she did qualify for a period of almost three years. TSB stopped paying interest 
in November 2017 and says it was up to Ms R to ensure she met the terms. But, in my view, 
by paying interest for almost three years TSB led Ms R to believe she did meet the qualifying 
criteria. I think Ms R could reasonably have expected TSB to specifically tell her it had 
stopped paying interest and the reason why. Given Ms R had accepted the account terms 
almost three years previously, I dont agree it was reasonable for TSB to assume shed 
recall the specific criteria for receiving credit interest. 
Im satisfied that clearer guidance from TSB when it stopped paying interest wouldve led to 
Ms R checking what she needed to do and meeting the qualifying criteria for continuing to 
receive credit interest on her savings. I agree with the investigator that Ms R has missed out 
on interest for an extended period. As a result, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint and directing 
TSB to pay her the interest she missed out on. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Ms R credit 
interest from November 2017 to March 2021 (in months where deposits of £500 or more are 
made) as if she met the qualifying criteria for the Classic Plus account..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman