DRN-2739707
The complaint
Mr Y complains that FCE Bank Plc charged him for excess mileage even though the dealer 
was aware he covered a high mileage and the contract should have allowed for that.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr Y entered into an agreement which states his annual mileage is to not to exceed 
6,000. That figure was not hidden away in the small print and would have been clear 
to anyone reading the document. Mr Y signed to say he had read the documents and 
I can only assume he took the time to do so. 
When he handed the car back a little over three years later his actual mileage was 
97,723. This meant he had exceeded the agreed amount by 78,223 miles. In fact, he 
had covered some 30,000 miles each year.
His previous two agreements allowed for 18,000 miles a year and assuming he had 
covered a similar mileage they too would have resulted in an excess mileage charge. 
However, on each occasion he traded his car in and so this did not arise. The last 
agreement was terminated when Mr Y was made redundant and so the excess 
charge was incurred.
Mr Y has said the dealer knew he covered a high mileage and so it should have 
ensured it gave him a suitable contract. I do not find this a persuasive argument. I 
cannot say what was discussed when the agreement was taken out, but Mr Y was 
the person who knew what his true mileage was, and it was up to him to ensure the 
agreement was suitable for his needs. 
I also note that Mr Y insured his car based on an annual mileage of 12,000 and not 
the 30,000 figure which would have been more accurate. I presume the insurer relied 
on the information supplied by Mr Y.
Finally, if Mr Y had entered into an agreement which allowed for 30,000 miles a year 
his monthly payments would have been more than he paid. Although I cannot say 
what that charge would have been, I can say that FCE would have ensured it 
charged him appropriately and the final sum may well not have been far off what he 
was asked to pay by way of excess mileage.
I appreciate the charge may have come as a shock to Mr Y, but I cannot say that the 
business did anything materially wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman