DRN-3135370
The complaint
Miss T complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to send her a new debit card 
when her old card expired. Miss T is also unhappy she was charged for going into overdraft.
What happened
Miss T complained to Santander that it failed to send her a new debit card. Santander 
investigated and initially found that the new debit card wasnt sent as there was a do not 
renew block on Miss Ts card because it hadnt been used in the last 12 months  it awarded 
Miss T £35 compensation. Subsequently Santander found that it had made an administrative 
error and Miss T had been using the card. It then arranged to have a new card sent out to 
her and awarded her a further £120 in compensation.
Miss T then complained to Santander about the charges it applied to her account when 
unpaid standing order charges caused her to go into unarranged overdraft. Santander says 
all charges were notified to Miss T in advance and applied correctly in line with the terms 
and conditions of her account.
  
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ts concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander had done enough to settle her complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss T disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. This service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses we cover. And my 
role isnt to punish or penalise businesses for their performance or behaviour  thats the role 
of the regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
Taking Miss Ts first complaint point - she is unhappy with the service she received from 
Santander when it failed to send her a new debit card. I can see that Santander has agreed 
it made a mistake and has put it right by sending Miss T a new debit card and compensated 
Miss T £35 and £120 for the inconvenience. This is in line with what I would expect 
Santander to do so I wont be asking Santander to do anything more here.
Miss Ts second complaint is about the level of charges applied to her account when she 
went into unarranged overdraft. I can see that all charges were notified to Miss T prior to 
being applied and that they were correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. So I cant say that Santander has done anything wrong here. I havent considered 
whether the amount Santander charged was fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Santanders various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss T if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Miss Ts account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Miss T was experiencing 
financial difficulty. From what Ive seen about the way Miss T was managing her account I 
cant see anything to suggest that Santander ought to have realised she might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty before she got in touch with it. 
 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account.
Miss T has informed us that one of the payments that triggered the overdraft charges was a 
loan from another bank and that the bank had admitted mismanagement of its loans. As this 
mistake was made by a different bank Miss T will have to raise her complaint about this 
payment with that bank.
So I dont think Santander treated Miss T unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not 
upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss T  
especially as shes been waiting some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman