DRN-3356111
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Premier Insurance Company Limited has failed to properly 
settle two claims against her motor insurance policy. She has also complained about the 
service Premier provided on her claims.
What happened
Mrs B was in an accident in June 2019 when her car was hit from behind by a third party. 
She contacted Premier to make a claim. Mrs B wanted her car to go to a repairer of her 
choice. Premier asked her to send an estimate from this repairer, which Mrs B sent. 
Premier then closed the claim on the basis they hadnt heard from Mrs B, despite writing 
to her asking for images of her car. Mrs B called a couple of months later to see what was 
happening and was told her claim had been closed.
Whilst this claim was still outstanding Mrs Bs car was in another accident where another 
car hit the drivers side of her car. She contacted Premier to make a further claim. They 
said the car could go to their approved repairer for this damage to be repaired, subject to 
Mrs B paying the policy excess of £350. Mrs B agreed to this and her car was taken to the 
approved repairer. Premier then found out Mrs Bs car had been damaged before and the 
repairs hadnt been done very well. Premier decided to appoint an engineer to inspect the 
car and decide what to do.
Premier initially told Mrs B they were going to approve the repairs to her car relating to the 
damage from the accident in October. But it seems they then decided to offer a cash-in-
lieu settlement for what they said was the cost of repairing the damage resulting from this 
accident, less the policy excess and VAT. They then paid £1,116.55. Premier also offered 
to pay for the repairs to the rear of Mrs Bs car from the accident in June 2019 if she paid 
another policy excess. This was because they did not have an admission of liability from 
the other drivers insurance company. She decided against this.
Mrs B complained to Premier. They accepted they could have provided a better service 
on her claims and awarded her £200 in compensation. Mrs B wasnt happy with this and 
asked us to consider her complaint.
One of our investigators said Premier should pay £630 to compensate Mrs B for not 
having her car for a considerable period of time due to delays on her claim. She said this 
should be paid in addition to the £200 Premier had already awarded Mrs B.
Premier didnt respond to the investigators assessment, despite her chasing them, so 
she moved Mrs Bs complaint to the final stage in our process  an ombudsmans 
decision.
Mrs B has explained that she paid £4,586.28 in total for the damage from the two accidents 
to be repaired. She has provided the invoice of £3,586.28 for the repairs to the damage from 
the October accident by Premiers approved repairer, who carried out the repair. She 
explained that after theyd done this she asked the manager if theyd fixed any of the 
previous damage. And he said they hadnt.
I issued a Provisional decision on 18 February 2022 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Premiers notes on Mrs Bs claim and what Mrs B has said that she had 
sent them an estimate for the repairs to her car following her accident in June 2019. It 
does appear that Premier sent Mrs B follow up letters which she doesnt seem to have 
received. But they had the wrong phone number for her, so werent able to contact her by 
phone. So, the fact her claim was closed down seems to have been due to a 
misunderstanding. But from their notes on the claim, Premier do seem to accept they were 
at least partly to blame. This clearly caused Mrs B distress and inconvenience, but she did 
still have her car available to use until she had the accident in October 2019.
Mrs Bs claim following the accident in June 2019 was a valid claim and Mrs B clearly 
wasnt at fault for the accident. But Premier couldnt pursue the other drivers insurer with 
any realistic chance of getting an admission of liability until they had paid out something to 
Mrs B and had an amount to recover. This meant Mrs B would need to pay her excess of 
£350, leaving Premier to recover this along with their outlay. As things stand Mrs B has 
had the repairs to the rear of her car carried out and she has said she paid £1,000 for 
them. The fact it cost this amount is supported by the estimate Mrs B provided to Premier 
originally of
£1,015.45. This means Mrs B is due to receive £750 after the deduction of her excess. 
So, I think Premier should pay her this amount and then look to recover it from the other 
insurer, along with Mrs Bs excess before it is too late. I realise Premier arent obliged to 
recover Mrs Bs excess for her, but I think it is fair bearing in mind the problems shes had 
with Premier. And it does seem they have always been willing to do this.
I think the way Premier handled the claim following Mrs Bs accident in October 2019 was 
poor. I can see this from their claim notes and from listening to the telephone calls Mrs B 
had with them. In these calls I can hear Mrs B was - understandably - becoming more and 
more frustrated. And, whilst eventually Premier made a payment for what they said was a 
fair estimate for the repairs needed following her accident, which I will return to later, there 
were clearly unnecessary delays due to poor claim handling by Premier. They themselves 
have noted in their notes on Mrs Bs complaint that there was a significant delay.
In view of this, I agree with my investigator that Mrs B should receive a payment for the 
loss of use of her car. And I agree with her estimate that Mrs B was without her car due to 
delays by Premier for 63 days. I also agree she should receive a payment of £10 per day 
for this, ie
£630 in total.
I think the £200 Premier awarded for distress and inconvenience is fair, as I am intending 
to award the full cost of the repairs to the rear of Mrs Bs car without further evidence. 
And
despite it seeming that a small part of the repair carried out to the front of the car by 
Premiers approved repairer may have related to the damage to the previous damage to 
her car. Ive explained what I mean by this below.
I can see from the engineers report and photographs there was previous damage to Mrs 
Bs car that was repaired. In fact, it was a Category C total loss before she bought it. I can 
also see the repairs werent carried out to a very good standard. I can see from the 
invoice Mrs B has provided that the repairs she had carried out by Premiers approved repairer included some work on the near (passenger) side of Mrs Bs car, which was the 
side damaged before Mrs B bought the car. But these parts and the labour seem to be 
less than 10% of the total cost. And this seems to back up what the manager at the 
approved repairer said to Mrs B, ie that what they did had no real impact on the previous 
repairs.
So, bearing in mind how long its been since Mrs B submitted her claim, I think it is fair 
and reasonable for Premier to cover the full amount Mrs B paid (£3,586.28) to have her 
car repaired following the damaged caused in the accident in October 2019, less the 
policy excess of £350. This is £3,236.28. And the excess wont be recoverable as the 
car that caused the damage is unknown. Mrs B has already received £1,116.55, which 
means Premier should pay her a further £2,119.73.
It should also pay her interest on this amount at 8% per annum simple from the date she 
settled the repair invoice to the date it pays her this amount, as she has been without 
these funds for this period. I dont intend to award interest on the £750 Mrs B is due for 
the repairs following her accident in June 2019, as Im not requiring Mrs B to provide a 
paid invoice for these.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint 
and make Premier Insurance Company Limited do the following:
Pay Mrs B £2,119.73 for the repairs to her car following the accident in October 2019, 
plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date she settled the invoice (21 February 
2020) to the date of actual payment.
Pay Mrs B £750 for the repairs following the damage to her car in June 2019.
Pay Mrs B £200 for distress and inconvenience  if it has not paid this already.
Pay Mrs B £630 for the loss of use of her car.
Take whatever action is necessary to recover Mrs Bs £350 excess on her claim following 
the accident in June 2019 for her from the other drivers insurer.
I gave both parties until 4 March to provide more comments and evidence. 
Mrs B has responded to say she is happy with what Ive provisionally decided. Premier 
havent responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs B is happy with what I provisionally decided and Premier havent responded to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to alter my view as set out in it on what the fair and 
reasonable outcome of Mrs Bs complaint is.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided the fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mrs Bs complaint is for Premier to do the following:Pay Mrs B £2,119.73 for the repairs to her car following the accident in October 2019, 
plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date she settled the invoice (21 February 
2020) to the date of actual payment1.
Pay Mrs B £750 for the repairs following the damage to her car in June 2019.
Pay Mrs B £200 for distress and inconvenience  if they have not paid this already.
Pay Mrs B £630 for the loss of use of her car.
Take whatever action is necessary to recover Mrs Bs £350 excess on her claim following 
the accident in June 2019 for her from the other drivers insurer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and order Premier Insurance Company 
Limited to do what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Premier Insurance Company Limited must tell Mrs B if they have made a deduction for 
income tax. And, if they have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax 
deduction certificate for Mrs B if asked to do so. This will allow Mrs B to reclaim the tax 
from Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.