DRN-3652759
The complaint
Mr S complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) took a long time to complete 
repairs following a home insurance claim, and hes unhappy with the quality of the 
workmanship and the replacement items.
What happened
On 24 March 2021, Mr S suffered a fire in his kitchen. The fire caused damage to his kitchen 
worktop, vinyl flooring, and hob. He made a claim on his home insurance policy.
Mr S complained about the time the claim had taken, and about the quality of the repairs and 
replacement items. RSA didnt provide a response to his complaint. So, in December 2021, 
he brought the complaint to our service.
RSA provided its file, which sets out the following:
- On 26 March, RSA appointed a kitchen restoration contractor to report on the 
damage. 
- On 6 April, the contractor confirmed the kitchen worktop couldnt be restored and the 
vinyl flooring would also need to be replaced. RSA appointed a flooring contractor to 
either replace the vinyl flooring or to agree a cash settlement. RSA also asked Mr S 
to obtain a quote for the damaged worktop and hob, so this could be cash settled.
- On 23 April, Mr S explained he was in the process of agreeing a cash settlement for 
the vinyl flooring with the flooring contractor, but he was struggling to obtain a quote 
for his kitchen worktop and hob. Therefore, RSA appointed a building contractor for 
the worktop and hob.
- Mr S opted against a cash settlement for the vinyl flooring. So, during May and June 
the flooring contractor proceeded with sourcing the replacement vinyl and arranging 
the fitting. The flooring contractors work was completed on 14 July. 
- During May, the building contractor agreed a scope of works and costings with RSA. 
During June, dates for the works were agreed with Mr S.
- On 20 July, whilst replacing the worktop, one of the splashback tiles was accidentally 
damaged. As such, the building contractor sought approval from RSA to replace all 
the splashback tiles, which was given on 28 July. The tiles were then ordered, but 
Mrs S confirmed she was happy for just the damaged tile to be replaced. 
- The building contractors work was completed around 10 August. The building 
contractor predominantly liaised with Mrs S, who was happy with the work.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
Because Mr S disagreed, his complaint was passed to me to decide.
Mr S says the replacement items arent the same quality as the damaged items. He says the 
worktop is fading and the edging is coming away. Hes provided some photos to support 
what he says. 
In view of Mr Ss submissions, I asked RSA if its building contractor would revisit and report 
on the issues. Following the visit, the contractor made the following observations:
- The silicon around the sink and hob doesnt look great. However, this may have been 
due to the use of cleaning products rather than workmanship issues.
- The edging strip to the worktop is loose on one end, but this was probably not the 
case when the work was completed.
- The original worktop was laminated with a white/grey/black speckled finish. The 
replacement is also laminated, but with a black quartz/mirror chip finish. So, its 
considered like-for-like, and the insured chose the replacement.
- The replacement worktop has a glossy finish. But there are various light scratches 
which make it appear dull in areas. This damage is from use or misuse since the 
work was done.
- Mr S suggested he had a higher quality gas hob. The survey photographs show no 
branding to the pre-loss hob, which would suggest it was a low-end hob. It was 
replaced with similar quality. No issues were raised at the time of the works.
- Mr S suggested the vinyl flooring isnt the same quality. This was installed by another 
party, so the contractor couldnt comment. However, some indents were noted to the 
flooring which Mr S acknowledged were from furniture.
The contractor said it would be prepared to clean up the silicone around the sink and hob, 
and to refix the edging strip to the worktop.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining I intended to uphold the complaint in part. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete, or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Claim and repair timescales
I accept the repairs took a while to be completed. However, a degree of inconvenience is to 
be expected when making an insurance claim, as are wait times for materials and/or 
contractor availability.
Based on the information provided, Ive not seen any significant delays, or delays that 
I would consider to be unreasonable or unavoidable.
I accept a tile was broken by the building contractor, which caused further delay. But Ive not 
seen anything that leads me to believe the contractor was careless.Quality of repairs and replacement items
Ive not seen anything that supports the damaged items werent replaced on a like-for-like 
basis. 
Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs S chose the items in question. Mr S says their choices were 
limited and they went along with what was offered. However, if they had concerns about the 
items being offered, they ought reasonably to have raised that at the time.
I accept theres a dull area on the worktop, and I can understand why Mr S is unhappy about 
that given it was only recently installed. However, I havent seen any expert opinion that 
supports the issue is due to a fault in the worktop. Based on the evidence provided, on 
balance, I consider it likely the worktop has since suffered some damage from usage. 
Nonetheless, I wouldnt reasonably expect the edging strip to come loose after such a short 
period of time, and I can understand why Mr S is unhappy with the silicon detail around the 
hob and sink. RSA has now offered to put those matters right, which I consider to be fair.
I also intend to award £150 compensation. Mr S first raised some of the issues a year ago, 
and in my view, RSA ought reasonably to have revisited sooner.
RSA accepted my provisional decision.
Mr S explained he was disappointed with the level of compensation. He reiterated some of 
the points he had previously made about the claim and the repair process, and about the 
quality of the replacement items.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We havent received any further points or evidence from the parties. Having reconsidered 
the information previously presented, and considered the responses to my provisional 
decision, Ive reached the same outcome for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in 
part. My final decision is Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should:
- repair the loose edging strip on the worktop, and re-do the silicon around the hob and 
sink; and
- pay Mr S £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman