DRN-4059159
The complaint
Mrs M, via her representatives, complains about the overall service provided by 
National Westminster Bank Plc when her nominated attorneys tried to register their Power of 
Attorney (POA).
 
One of Mrs Ms attorneys, Miss M, acts as her main representative here.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of the key events that led to this complaint. It does not, 
therefore, list everything that happened or include all of the detail.
In 2022, Miss M attempted to register a POA for her mother, Mrs M, with NatWest. She and 
her two siblings had been appointed as Mrs Ms attorneys.
 
Throughout the process, Miss M and the other attorneys encountered several issues caused 
by NatWest. In summary, this included technology problems, unnecessary delays, several 
instances of being provided with misinformation, and unnecessary trips to NatWest 
branches.
 
Miss M complained and, in response, NatWest agreed that it couldve handled things much 
better than it did. Over the course of two letters, one sent in November and the other in 
December 2022, the bank apologised for what had happened. It accepted there had been 
multiple issues and, overall, that things hadnt been as Miss M and the other attorneys 
shouldve expected.
 
For the significant inconvenience that had been caused, NatWest offered Miss M a total of 
£700 to compensate for the experience. £200 was paid directly to one of her mothers 
accounts, and the other £500 was offered to Miss M directly. As I understand it, the full £700 
that NatWest offered has been paid.
 
Miss M remained unhappy so, on behalf of her mother, she referred the complaint to our 
service. An investigator here looked into what had happened and she said, in summary, that:
Under the rules which govern our service, Miss M and her siblings, while attorneys 
for Mrs M and able to act on her behalf, werent eligible complainants in their own 
right. Thats because, under the rules, they didnt have the required relationship with 
NatWest. The accounts in question were Mrs Ms.
That meant that the only eligible complainant here was Mrs M, not Miss M or the 
other attorneys, because she was the account holder and NatWests customer. 
With that in mind, any inconvenience experienced by Miss M and the other attorneys 
wasnt something we could consider. 
Our service could look at the impact to Mrs M directly. But here, everything that had 
happened had done so directly to Miss M and the other attorneys. So, there really 
was no impact to Mrs M for us to consider. 
Despite all of that, the investigator was pleased to see that NatWest had recognised the 
effect its mistakes had on Miss M and the other attorneys.
Miss M disagreed. She didnt think it fair that our service couldnt consider or comment on 
NatWests actions towards her and the other attorneys. So, she asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered fair and reasonable Having done so, its clear to me that this complaint is 
driven by the experience Miss M and the other attorneys had with NatWest. So, I think its 
important to be clear on exactly what I can and cant comment on.
 
This complaint has been brought to our service on behalf of Mrs M  who is NatWests 
customer  by her representatives.
 
Theres nothing wrong with that. Miss M and her siblings, in their capacity to act as their 
mothers attorneys and representatives, are indeed entitled to bring a complaint to us on her 
behalf.
Whats crucial, though, is that in such circumstances I can only consider how NatWests 
actions impacted Mrs M alone. Our investigator is correct when she says that I cant 
consider any inconvenience suffered by Miss M or the other attorneys; I cant make any 
award to them or instruct NatWest to compensate them directly.
 
Ive seen our investigator has already pointed Miss M in the direction of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution (DISP) rules, so I wont cover the same 
ground and repeat them here. But put simply, Miss M and the other attorneys arent the 
customer; instead, they act on the customers behalf, and they dont have the required 
relationship with NatWest to be eligible to complain in their own right.
 
That may seem harsh, and Ive no doubt the experience that the attorneys had with NatWest 
was a frustrating one. But the fact is that I must apply the rules which govern our service, 
and I simply have no power to address the matter in any other way. The only eligible 
complainant here is Mrs M.
 
With that in mind, Ive considered the impact that NatWests actions had on Mrs M. Having 
done so, much like our investigator, Ive not seen that there was any direct impact to her. 
What happened here all appears to have happened to Mrs Ms attorneys in their attempts to 
register their POA. 
I know Miss M and the other attorneys will be bitterly disappointed by what Ive set out. I am 
truly sorry to hear that they went through such a difficult time for something which should be, 
relatively speaking, straightforward. But for the reasons Ive explained, I cant compensate 
them for any inconvenience caused to them personally while they were acting on behalf of 
the eligible complainant. Its on that basis that this decision ends what our service can do 
here.My final decision
I dont think National Westminster Bank Plc needs to take any further action to settle the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman