The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC restricted her use of her credit and debit card, 
which left her without access to funds while she was abroad. 
What happened
Miss M holds a credit card and current account with HSBC. On 9 May 2019 she attempted to 
use her credit card abroad. However, she said it was declined twice due to an incorrect PIN. 
Miss M said she was able to successfully use her credit card to make a purchase 30 minutes 
later. She stated her debit card was also declined due to an incorrect PIN. 
The following day, Miss M said that when she attempted to use her credit card in a shop the 
PIN card reader stated it was her third attempt to enter her PIN correctly. Miss M said she 
entered her PIN correctly but her card was blocked. She tried to use her debit card but said 
this was declined due to an incorrect PIN being entered. This caused embarrassment and 
upset to Miss M and, as she didnt have another card she could use, she wasnt able to pay 
for her shopping.
As Miss M was abroad at the time she was unable to contact HSBC. So, on 11 May 2019 
her father, who is a third party card holder on her account, attended a branch to query why 
she was experiencing problems in using her cards. Miss M said her father was informed that 
there were no known issues with either card and she could continue to use them to transact 
on her account while abroad.
Miss M said she used HSBCs online messaging service to request assistance but it told her 
it hadnt blocked her card or declined transactions shed made. As Miss M was still unable to 
use her cards her father attended an HSBC branch on 13 May 2019 to ask it to resolve the 
problems she was facing. 
Miss M said she wasnt able to successfully use her credit card until 17 May 2019. So, she 
was without access to funds for around a week while overseas. Miss M was unhappy about 
this and felt HSBC hadnt provided any assistance when requested by her and her father. 
So, she complained.
HSBC investigated Miss Ms concerns but didnt uphold her complaint. It stated that it had no 
record of any declined transactions for either Miss Ms credit or debit card during May 2019. 
So, it thought the difficulties shed experienced may have been due to external issues 
affecting retailers where she was attempting to use her cards. But, while it stated there was 
no banking error, it recognised Miss M had been caused trouble and upset by what 
happened. And it credited her account with a goodwill payment of £75 to recognise that.
Being dissatisfied with HSBCs response to her complaint Miss M referred it to our service. 
Our investigator assessed all the evidence HSBC and Miss M provided our service. But they 
didnt uphold this complaint. Overall, they concluded that HSBC had neither made a mistake 
DRN-1473417nor treated Miss M unfairly. But Miss M disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss M experienced while abroad when attempting to 
use her debit and credit card during May 2019. I understand that, before she relocated 
overseas, she confirmed with HSBC that shed be able to continue to use her cards. So, I 
can appreciate that not being able to do so caused distress and inconvenience. And I realise 
that must have been incredibly frustrating. However, while I sympathise with Miss Ms 
experience here, my role is to assess whether I think HSBC made a mistake, or treated Miss 
M unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right.
HSBC told Miss M, and our service, that it had no records of declined transactions on her 
credit card during May 2019. I can see Miss M doubts this. But Ive seen a report, which 
satisfies me that what HSBC has said here is correct. HSBC also has shown our service 
evidence that there were no attempted transactions on Miss Ms debit card on 9 and 10 May 
2019. Ive no reason to doubt this evidence.
I accept that Miss M tried to use both her debit and credit cards on the dates in question. 
And Im satisfied shed have entered her PIN correctly. However, like our investigator, Im 
satisfied that if HSBC had applied a block on Miss Ms account or declined her transactions 
thered be a record on its systems. And, based on the evidence available, I think its most 
likely that the problems Miss M encountered when trying to use her cards were due to issues 
with the retailers she attended. 
Its clear that if HSBC had blocked Miss Ms credit card shed have had to have unlocked it 
at a UK based ATM in order to be able to use the same card. As she was able to use her 
card from 17 May 2019 onwards without unlocking it its unlikely her card was blocked by 
HSBC.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but I havent seen enough to persuade me that the problems 
she experienced were caused by an error made by HSBC. I therefore cant fairly uphold her 
complaint.
I understand HSBC paid Miss M £75 as a gesture of goodwill to recognise the trouble and 
upset she was caused. I think this is fair. I say this because it isnt something Id have told 
HSBC to do as part of my decision.
Miss M seems to think HSBCs goodwill payment is an admission of error. But it isnt unusual 
for businesses to make awards of this nature without accepting theyve made a mistake. And 
Ive already outlined my reasons in detail as to why Im not persuaded HSBC made an error 
here.
I know Miss M has indicated that she wants our service to tell HSBC to make a further £300 
goodwill payment to resolve her complaint. But I dont think it would be fair to tell HSBC to 
pay this - for the reasons Ive given. 
Finally, I can see Miss M has raised concerns regarding the adequacy of support HSBC 
offers overseas customers. However, were not the regulator of banks. So, we cant tell a 
business to change its policy regarding the assistance it provides customers who may experience problems with their account while abroad. That said, Im persuaded HSBC 
assisted Miss M and her father as far as it was able to in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Miss M will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying, to resolve her dispute with HSBC informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Miss M any further with her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman