DRN-3640356
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain about a mortgage they hold with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc 
(TMW). Mrs T and Mr T say that, because TMW failed to update their correspondence 
address, it resulted in their mortgage moving on to the more expensive standard variable 
rate for a two-month period.  To settle the complaint, Mrs T and Mr T want TMW to 
reimburse the additional interest that they paid for this period.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mrs T and Mr T are unhappy that TMW failed to update their 
correspondence address despite them providing written confirmation of their new address. 
TMW considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. TMW says it followed its internal 
procedure and because Mrs T and Mr T failed to provide their written confirmation in the 
same letter, they were unable to update the correspondence address to the new one. Mrs T 
and Mr T remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt consider TMW had acted 
unreasonably in not updating the correspondence address because it hadnt been provided 
with the information it had requested. Mrs T and Mr T disagreed, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for largely the 
same reasons and have decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
TMW say its process for updating a jointly held mortgage is to receive a signed document 
with the wet signatures of both account holders on it. Its not for me to direct TMW as to what 
processes to use but its for me to decide if it acted fairly and reasonably in carrying them 
out.
Ive listened to the call Mr T had with TMW on 5 January 2021. The agent updates the 
address on the system for Mr T explaining this will update his living address but says TMW 
would need to receive the correspondence address change request, in the post, with both 
your signatures on there. The agent also says, well send a confirmation in writing just to 
confirm weve got it up to date. 
The agent then adds, if its possible to send it on the same letterthat would be excellent. 
Mr T confirms if they just need to send a letter confirming theyve moved and then both he 
and Mrs T can sign the one letter and the agent confirms thats it, thats all we require. So, I 
think TMW made it clear that Mrs T and Mr T needed to send in the signed change request 
on the same letter to update their correspondence address. 
Mrs T and Mr T subsequently sent TMW two separate letters on 26 January 2021. TMW 
responded to Mrs T on 5 February 2021 confirming it had updated her living address, but it 
said, Were only able to change the Correspondence Address if we receive confirmation 
signed by all parties to the account. 
Mrs T and Mr T say, Mr T didnt receive a copy of the letter addressed to him but TMW have 
provided us with a copy of a letter sent to him on 14 January 2021. TMW say Mr T updated 
his living address over the phone so a further letter wasnt subsequently sent again. I dont 
think this was unreasonable. The copy of the letter sent by TMW was correctly addressed to 
Mr T, and I havent been provided with any evidence to show why Mr T wouldnt have 
received the letter considering Mr T has received other correspondence from TMW. 
So, it follows that I think these letters should have alerted both Mrs T and Mr T, either 
individually or collectively, that the correspondence address hadnt been updated and that 
they needed to take action to get this done. Overall, I dont think TMW acted unreasonably in 
the way it dealt with their request to change their correspondence address and it was in line 
with the processes it had in place at the time.  
I understand Mrs T and Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant say TMW 
acted unfairly in following the process it had in place at the time. TMW contacted Mrs T and 
Mr T to explain what was required to process the change which I think was reasonable. And 
I would also have expected them to chase TMW sooner regarding the change because they 
hadnt received any confirmation that their correspondence address had been updated, as 
they were advised they would in the call on 5 January 2021.   
While I can appreciate that the process must have been frustrating for Mrs T and Mr T, I 
cant reasonably conclude that this was the fault of TMW. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman