DRN-3205801
The complaint
Mrs C complains she wasnt made aware she was taking out a fixed sum loan agreement 
with 3J Finance Limited (3J), to finance online educational courses for her children. She is 
unhappy she has not been able to cancel the courses and complains they werent fit for 
purpose. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs C purchased online educational programmes for her two children from a
supplier who Ill call E. She says the representative who visited her at home misled her to
believe she was purchasing the programmes from E on a pay as you go basis, which could
be cancelled at any time.
When Mrs C tried to cancel the course in August 2020, E explained she had entered a
three-year fixed term loan agreement with 3J to fund the programmes and she was unable to
cancel as she was already outside of the 14-day cancellation period. The loan agreement 
was interest free for three years, with monthly repayments of £77.92. Mrs C paid a £100 
deposit.
Unable to resolve her concerns with E, Mrs C complained to 3J that the loan had been mis-
sold. 3J said all the paperwork Mrs C had signed was clear about the loan and she was
responsible for repaying the outstanding balance under its loan agreement.
Unhappy with 3Js response Mrs C brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator
partly upheld the complaint, he didnt think there was enough evidence to say the course
was not fit for purpose, so did not think a breach of contract occurred. He was satisfied from
Mrs Cs testimony that the loan agreement had been mis-sold. He recommended 3J
cancel the loan agreement with effect from 28 August 2020, refund Mrs C any payments
under the loan agreement made after that date, remove adverse information recorded on 
Mrs Cs credit file and arrange for any programme materials to be collected.
3J disagreed, in summary it said the documentation Mrs C signed was clear about the terms 
of the loan and there is a general legal principle that when someone signs a document they 
are taken to have read and understood it. It didnt think it was fair for the investigator to rely 
on Mrs Cs recollection of events. Instead it said it was safer to refer to tangible documentary 
evidence from when Mrs C entered the agreement.
The complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional decision in November 
2021 which said the following;
Mrs C paid for the educational programmes through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) sets out that in certain circumstances, Mrs C
can bring a claim against 3J for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by E. And Im
satisfied those circumstances apply in this case. Also, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act
1974 has the effect of making E an agent of 3J during the antecedent negotiations leading
up to Mrs C entering into the loan agreement. This means 3J can be held responsible for the
things E said or didnt say, during the sales process.
Mrs C says her younger child used the programme almost daily until he got stuck in March
2020, she says E didnt get back to her when she asked for its help. Mrs C also complains
that the lessons didnt follow the national curriculum. I havent seen anything to indicate the
modules were misdescribed to Mrs C, there are no records of Mrs C contacting Es helpline
for support and I havent seen any record of her raising concerns about the content of the
lessons, prior to her contact with this service. Based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied the
content of the programme or Es services fell below a satisfactory standard, so I do not
uphold this part of Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C contacted E to cancel the programmes on 28 August 2020 as her older child had
completed his GCSE re-sits in August 2019 and her younger son was no longer using it. She
says this was the first time she was made aware that she could not cancel the programmes
and that she had taken a loan with 3J to pay upfront for the programmes.
Mrs C says the representative led her to believe she had a pay as you go arrangement
which could be ended at any time. Mrs C told us she would not have signed up for the
programmes if she had been made aware, she would be tied into a three-year loan
agreement; As the programmes only covered schooling up to GCSE, so she was looking for
short term support in the run up to her childrens exams; one who would complete their
exams in August 2019 and the other in August 2021, so she wouldnt want to be still paying
for programmes that her children would no longer have use for.
3J says its unfair for this service to rely on Mrs Cs recollection of what was said by Es
representative, given the time that had elapsed. Instead it said its safer to focus on the
contemporaneous, tangible documentary evidence Mrs C signed at the time of the sale. It
noted Mrs C had hand signed and initialled every statement on the Customer Clarification &
Satisfaction Form to confirm her understanding. And said its a legal principle that a person
is taken to have read and understood what they have signed. In addition, it says the loan
agreement which Mrs C signed electronically carried the heading in bold type Fixed Sum
Loan Agreement, so thought Mrs C would have been aware she was paying the cost of the
programmes by way of a loan. 3J also said Es representative would have explained
everything to Mrs C at the time and signed the compliance form to confirm they did.
Ive looked at the relevant paperwork to see whether Mrs Cs belief that she was paying E on
a pay as you go basis and could end the agreement anytime was reasonable. The Customer
Clarification and Satisfaction Form refers to purchasing a Lifetime Licence and uses the
generic term Finance throughout, rather than loan. Whilst I accept the words loan and
finance are used interchangeably in the lending industry, I think its understandable that a
lay person may not have understood they were entering a loan agreement. There is a
statement referring to a loan agreement, but it notes this only applies where finance is the
chosen option of payment, so I dont think this would necessarily be clear to Mrs C that a
loan was the method of her payment.
I can see the loan agreement, which was signed electronically contains the required
statutory wording for a fixed sum loan agreement. And I think that anyone reading it, would
be aware that they were agreeing a loan. However, Mrs C has told us that the representative
was selecting boxes and then showed her where to sign electronically on the device. She
says she was not given the opportunity to review documents on the screen and is adamant
she was not shown anything to say she was taking out a loan.
I can see the four documents electronically signed by Mrs C, including the loan agreement 
were all signed at the same time (13:09). I would expect there to be a delay between the
documents being signed, if she was signing them separately. I think this supports what Mrs
C has told us about the representative ticking boxes and not being given the opportunity toreview the electronic documents properly.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it expects a responsible credit
broker to do and this is set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). As the lender,
these regulations and guidance dont apply to 3J directly. But I think E was acting as a credit
broker by arranging the loan agreement on behalf of 3J. So, this is something Ive taken into
consideration. And taking everything into account Im not persuaded that Mrs C was given
sufficient opportunity to review the loan agreement in accordance with CONC 2.5.3 (3).
Even if I was to agree with 3J that Mrs C should have been aware of what she was agreeing
to from the paperwork. I dont think the paperwork alone accurately reflects the discussions
which led up to the contract being entered. And as Mrs C says she was misled by the
representative I also need to consider what she was told during the sale and whether this led
to her signing up for the programmes.
3J has told us what it considers Es representative would have said and notes they signed
the compliance form to confirm explanations had been given, but the form was not signed by
Mrs C and we have not been provided with any testimony from the representative involved.
On the other hand, Mrs C has been clear and consistent in her communications that the
representative led her to believe she was paying E for the programmes on a monthly pay as
you go basis, that could be cancelled at any time. And I can see she also said this when she
sent E an email to complain on 7 September 2020.
CONC 2.5.3 sets out that a broker must: (2) take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a
product it wishes to recommend to a customer is not unsuitable for the customer's needs
and circumstances; and (6) must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
Ive spoken to Mrs C to get some context about why she enquired about the programmes,
she said she was only looking for short term support for her eldest child who was due to take
his GCSE re-sits in August 2019 and wanted support for her younger child in the run up to
his GCSE exams in August 2021. Mrs C says she explained her needs to the representative
and she was led to believe that she was paying for the programmes on a pay as you go
basis, which could be ended at any time. After trying to cancel the service with E, Mrs C
signed up for another online tutoring service, which was on a subscription basis and she was
able to cancel once her younger son completed his exams in August 2021.
When Mrs C signed up for the programmes, one of her children would only need the
programme for four months and the youngest child would only benefit from the programme
for 2 years. As it is clear Mrs C was looking for short-term support for children in the run up
to their exams; Im not persuaded she would have agreed to enter a three-year loan
agreement ending in 2022, if she had been made aware that she could not cancel after the
14-day withdrawal period and she would still be obligated to pay after both her children had
completed their exams.
This service is also aware that at the time Mrs C signed up for the programmes, E was also
offering a subscription or pay as you go service, in addition to the lifetime licence that was
sold to Mrs C. Given the short-term needs of Mrs Cs children Im not persuaded the
representative took reasonable steps to ensure that the lifetime licence was the suitable
option based on the childrens educational needs.
Ive also considered the various modules included in the programmes Mrs C was sold. Each
of the modules corresponds to various school key stages. Mrs Cs older child was revising
for his re-sits and I can see the GCSE revision module was selected. Mrs Cs younger son
was at the end of Key stage 3 when she was sold the programmes, but I can see that keystage 2 and some key stage 3 modules her son would have already completed were also
included in the programme. I dont think Mrs C would have agreed to pay for modules her
children had already completed, if the suitability of the modules had been adequately
explained to her.
Ive found Mrs Cs testimony to be consistent and persuasive, taking everything into account
I dont think the representative gave Mrs C sufficient information about the loan or the
suitability of the programmes and on balance Im satisfied she was misled to believe she
was paying for the programmes on a pay as you go basis and could cancel at any time, and
it was on this basis she agreed to purchase the programmes. Ive set out below what I think
3J should do to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
Mrs C confirmed her children have used the programmes, so I think its fair that she pays for
this use. To put things right I think 3J should;
Cap Mrs Cs liability under the loan to the sum of the repayments which she would
have owed up to 28 August 2020, when she first contacted E to cancel;
If Mrs C has paid more than the capped liability, these payments should be refunded,
along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date she made each
overpayment to the date of settlement;
If Mrs C has paid less than the capped liability, an affordable repayment plan must be
arranged for the balance of the cap;
Refund the £100 deposit Mrs C made, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the
date of the payment until the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file in relation to the
loan and mark the loan agreement as settled from 28 August 2020. If Mrs C has not
paid up to her capped liability then 3J does not need to mark the loan as settled, until
she has paid any the remaining capped balance.
Arrange with Mrs C (at no cost to her) for the return of anything she received under
the contract with E, such as any equipment, and end the access of any digital content
or services.
*If 3J considers that its required by HM Customs and Revenue to withhold income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Customs and
Revenue if appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I outlined in my provisional decision (see extract above), why I thought the complaint should 
be upheld. Mrs C has confirmed she accepts what Ive said and 3J said it didnt have any 
further comments to add. As neither party has provided any additional evidence or 
comments and I see no reason to depart from what I concluded in my provisional decision, 
Im partly upholding this complaint for the same reasons outlined in my provisional decision. My final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold the complaint and instruct 3J Finance Limited to take the 
action set out under the putting things right heading, in my provisional decision (see above). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman