DRN-3183137
The complaint
Mrs S complains Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) didnt reverse a trade she placed to 
sell some of her holdings in her share dealing account.
What happened
On 2 October 2020, Mrs S placed an order to sell £5,000 worth of shares from one of her 
holdings. Mrs Ss representative called Halifax shortly afterwards to explain she had sold the 
incorrect number of shares and wanted to change the deal. However, Halifax said this was 
not possible. Therefore, Mrs Ss representative raised a complaint on her behalf. The 
representative said he had previously been told he could cancel a trade during a previous 
telephone call he had with a manager.
Halifax responded to the complaint in October 2020. Halifax confirmed they wouldnt be able
to reverse the trade as outlined in their terms and conditions. But they did accept Mrs Ss
representatives version of events in respect of the telephone call. To resolve the complaint,
Halifax offered Mrs S £35. At that time, they accepted what Mrs Ss representative said
about being told he could cancel the trade.
Mrs S remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. During the investigation, both parties
made submissions. Halifax changed their position in respect of the telephone call and
withdrew their offer to resolve the complaint. They said it was unlikely a manager would have
told the representative that the trade could be cancelled.
The Investigator issued a view explaining that she couldnt verify what had been said during 
the phone call. She also felt Halifax hadnt done anything wrong when they said they couldnt 
cancel the trade.
Mrs S didnt agree with the view. Her representative explained there was an issue with
selling the shares on 15 September 2020 and he was told not to sell. He said when he spoke
to a manager about this he was told if he wanted to cancel a trade then hed have to call
within five or ten minutes. He said he did call within this time on 2 October 2020. He said he
was given false hope because he was told different things. He understands what has been
said in the terms and conditions, but he says he has been given an inconsistent message.
On 8 April 2022, I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Mrs Ss representative said he was previously told the trade could be cancelled after 
it had been placed and provided call logs to show when he contacted Halifax. When 
he first contacted our service, he explained he was told this following an attempted 
sale on 15 September 2020 and when he spoke to a manager about this.
The Investigator requested calls from 15 September 2020. Ive listened to the three 
call recordings from 15 and 16 September 2020 which have been provided. 
Unfortunately, Halifax have confirmed the specific call where the representative 
spoke to a manager isnt available. I appreciate the representative has concerns 
about this but Im unable to uphold a complaint on the basis that the call recording 
isnt available. Instead I must consider the evidence I do have, and weigh this up to 
decide whats likely to have happened on balance. Therefore, I have listened to the 
call recordings I do have. 
I note these calls were made in relation to an order to purchase shares and an 
attempt to sell those shares which didnt go through. Its worth noting the 
representative spoke to Halifax about this at the time, but it was dealt with separately 
and is not the subject of this decision. However, the call handler in the call from 16 
September 2020 explained an order might be cancelled but a trade couldnt be 
cancelled if it had already been executed. Im satisfied this was clearly explained.
Ive thought carefully about what the representative has said about being told he 
could cancel the trade after putting it through. And Ive heard he was told he could 
cancel the order, but the consistent message provided by the call handler was that a 
trade couldnt be cancelled once executed.
I also have to take into consideration the context in which these phone calls took 
place. At this time, the representative told Halifax an issue had occurred with regards 
to Mrs Ss instructions. If an issue had occurred which was caused by Halifax, then 
we might expect corrective action to be taken and this could include reversing a 
trade. However, this doesnt persuade me the information provided by Halifax was 
inconsistent or confusing and the representative was clearly told a trade couldnt be 
cancelled once executed.
Ive seen evidence of the trade placed on 2 October 2020 at 16:26. Mrs S placed an 
order for her online share dealing account to sell £5,000 worth of shares. Ive seen 
the trade confirmation. The representative contacted Halifax to let them know more 
shares had been sold than Mrs S had intended, and he was told the trade couldnt be 
cancelled. Halifax have explained this was because the trade had already been 
executed. I understand from the trade confirmation and Halifaxs timeline, the 
representative called after the trade had already been executed.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and I can see Halifax explained that any deal 
they accepted in good faith would form a legally binding contract between them and 
their customer. And, once accepted, the customer wouldnt be able to change their 
mind. Therefore, when the call handler explained to Mrs Ss representative that they 
could not cancel the trade, Im content they were acting in line with the terms and 
conditions. 
The representative does feel very strongly about the earlier information being 
misleading and I appreciate he remains concerned about the call recording. 
Therefore, I should explain that even if I found the previous information had been 
confusing, its unlikely Id ask Halifax to reverse the trade in light of the evidence I 
have about the circumstances in which the instructions were provided.
This is because Halifax reasonably followed Mrs Ss instructions to sell the shares 
and it had already been executed when the representative asked for the order to be 
cancelled. Also, Mrs S didnt rely on the understanding she could cancel the order 
when placing her instruction to sell. Instead, it was likely she expected her 
instructions to be executed. Additionally, there was no error on Halifaxs part in 
respect of executing the trade and they acted in accordance with their terms and 
conditions.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mrs S as Halifax have confirmed 
the offer made in their final response has now expired. But, as explained, I cant say Halifax have done anything wrong. I dont think it was unreasonable that they 
wouldnt cancel the order in these circumstances and because it had already been 
executed. They acted in line with their terms and conditions here. Also, Im not 
persuaded they had previously told Mrs Ss representative that a trade could be 
cancelled in the circumstances which arose here.
Therefore, Im not minded to say Halifax need to do anything to settle the complaint 
or that they should reverse the trade.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond to my provisional decision. I didnt receive a 
response from Halifax. However, Mrs S responded to say she didnt agree. She said she 
made two attempts to sell shares on 15 September 2020, but Halifaxs system didnt allow 
the transactions to take place. She said the representative spoke to Halifax in the evening 
and was told not to sell the shares at opening the next day but to wait for a call from the 
dealing team. She said this resulted in a loss which should be considered. Additionally, she 
said she had provided the telephone records that prove the calls were made but Halifax 
have not provided the call recordings. She has spoken to other firms who have let her know 
that all such calls should be recorded. 
As both parties have had the opportunity to respond, Ive proceeded to issue a final decision 
on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
I want to make it clear that the specific concerns arising from the two attempts to sell shares 
on 15 September 2020 havent been considered in this investigation. This includes Mrs Ss 
concerns she was told not to sell the shares at the opening of the following day and the 
financial loss she says this caused. It was a separate incident and its also worth noting that 
it wasnt considered in Halifaxs final response in October 2020. Therefore, Im not able to 
comment on the merits of these issues in my decision. Mrs S will need to raise these 
concerns separately if she remains concerned.
However, as explained, I have listened to the available call recordings which followed the 
attempted sales on 15 September 2020. This is because this is when the representative 
says he was told he could reverse a sale providing he called them within a short amount of 
time. I understand the representative remains concerned that I havent listened to all the 
calls. But I previously set out what Ive heard and what I think is likely to have happened on 
balance. Additionally, I explained why I had reached my decision based on the call 
recordings and comments I received.  
 
Having considered everything, Im content with my conclusion as set out in my provisional 
decision. Therefore, Halifax dont need to do anything to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman