DRN-2258854
The complaint
Ms O says CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms O took out PPI to protect her mortgage repayments in 2007. CIGNA told us the sale took 
place on the phone and the policy was to cover a mortgage taken out with a third-party 
lender. It gave Ms O accident, sickness and unemployment cover and she paid a monthly 
amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms O disagreed so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) Ive based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. So, what I think is most likely based on the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is set out on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms O said she felt pressured to take PPI, and that she had to have it to ensure she received 
her mortgage. CIGNA cant provide a copy of the call recording or the sales script, but thats 
not unreasonable given how long ago it was. It says following Ms Os agreement to go 
ahead a welcome pack was sent giving full information on the policy. It says its clear the PPI 
wasnt a factor to enable a successful mortgage application as the policy was sold after the 
mortgage agreement.
I have thought carefully about Ms Os comments, but I also have to take into account how 
long ago the sale was and how that might affect what she recalls. Overall, without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly conclude CIGNA didnt make clear the policy was optional and Ms O 
didnt agree to take it out.
Ms O says CIGNA advised she take out PPI. CIGNA disagrees and I havent seen any 
evidence that it reviewed her circumstances and then made a recommendation. This means 
it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for her. It did however have to provide enough 
information so that Ms O could make an informed decision. She says no clear information 
was given and she didnt need the cover because of her employee benefits. However, I dont 
think its most likely she would have made a different decision with better information. I say 
this because:
Ms O was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the policys terms and 
conditions.
Ms O was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick, but 
the policy would have paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 12 
months. It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover. This would have 
allowed her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment giving increased financial 
stability at what would be an already difficult time. Ms O told us she had £3000 in 
savings, but the PPI would have allowed her to use these for other living expenses 
whilst not working, or to keep them intact for her future needs. I know Ms O feels 
strongly the PPI duplicated her existing means. But it was protecting the repayments 
of a large, long term debt secured on her home. Given the serious consequences of 
missing mortgage repayments I think it would have provided useful additional 
protection if she was sick or lost her job. And as Ms O was paying monthly for the 
PPI she could cancel it without incurring any further cost if she no longer wanted it, or 
her circumstances changed  as I understand she did in April 1998.
Ms O says she had reduced her working hours so she would not have wanted to take 
on the extra cost, but I havent seen any evidence that the PPI was unaffordable for 
her and it was competitively priced.
As it seems Ms O wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations of the 
policy I cant see better information such terms would have changed her decision.
Ms O also highlighted a letter she received from CIGNA in late 1997, saying this showed it 
was attempting to give information after the sale. This was a letter CIGNA chose to send 
after the regulator carried out a PPI review. CIGNA asked all policyholders to review their 
policy to ensure it still met their needs. I note at this time Ms O didnt raise any concerns.
I know Ms O will be disappointed with my conclusion but based on the available evidence I 
dont think CIGNA mis-sold the policy to her. Whilst I accept it could have explained aspects 
of the policy more clearly, Im not persuaded that its most likely Ms O would have made a 
different decision. It would have provided valuable protection for her if she was unable to 
work. This means she hasnt lost out as a result of any problems with the sale, so theres 
nothing CIGNA needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman