DRN-2912885
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the valuation U K Insurance Limited (UKI) placed on her car 
following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. Mrs N is represented in this matter by 
her husband, Mr N, a named driver on her policy. 
What happened
Mrs N was involved in an accident and her car was deemed to be beyond economical repair. 
So UKI offered her the cars market value in settlement of her claim. It initially offered Mrs N 
£7,900 which it increased to £9,400 when Mrs N rejected this first offer. Mrs N remained 
unhappy and UKI had an independent engineer value the car. It then offered Mrs N £9,710 
and waived the policy excess. But Mrs N said she couldnt replace her car with a similar one 
for this amount. She provided examples of similar cars advertised for higher prices.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
valued the car fairly and reasonably, in keeping with the policy terms and conditions and our 
approach. He thought its final offer was higher than that provided by the motor trade guides 
we use. He also thought the advertised examples had lower mileage than Mrs Ns car.
Mr N replied that he thought the trade guides didnt reflect the current market. He said they 
couldnt replace the car with UKIs settlement. He was prepared to compromise with a 
settlement of £10,500. Mr N asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs N wants a fair settlement for the loss of her car. I can see that her 
policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. Market value is defined 
in the policy booklet as:
the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a similar 
age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Mr N disagrees with our approach. But its one that we use to be fair to all 
parties. The guides are constantly updating so they would take into account current 
conditions. And so I can see no reason for not using the guides to provide a pre-accident 
valuation for Mrs Ns car. 
Our investigator thought UKIs final settlement offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive 
checked how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked in the motor trade guides 
for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and options as Mrs Ns at the 
date of its loss. Mr N explained that the car had expensive options, but I cant see that these 
increased the valuations. I dont think this is unusual. 
The average of the valuations that the investigator found was £8,564.33. This was less than 
the final settlement offer made by UKI, £9,710. UKI increased its offer after Mrs N rejected 
the first valuation. When she remained unhappy, I think it reasonably asked an independent 
engineer to value the car. So I cant say that UKIs final offer was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr N provided examples of similar cars advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
In any case, the examples that Mr N provided were for cars with significantly lower mileage. 
Mr N thought a decrease in price for higher mileage was subjective. But I think our 
investigator has already demonstrated that mileage is a significant factor affecting the cars 
value. 
So I think UKIs final settlement offer for the pre-accident market value of Mrs Ns car was 
fair and reasonable. I think it was made in keeping with our approach and in keeping with the 
policy terms and conditions. So I dont require UKI to increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman