DRN-2366102
The complaint
Mr W through a professional representative complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited 
(Standard Life) was mis-sold an annuity.
What happened
Mr W had a pension policy with Standard Life. In April 2007 Mr W wished to take his benefits 
so Standard Life sent him information about doing so and the required forms. Standard Lifes 
records show that Mr W called them shortly after and chose to take 25% of the fund as tax-
free cash. And he wished to take an annuity with the remaining fund. The annuity selected 
was payable yearly in advance on a level basis, with no guarantee or spouses pension.
More recently Mr W complained through his representative to say he had limited knowledge 
of pension and investments. And that he wasnt properly informed of the alternatives 
available. The representative said Mr W shouldve been made aware of the impact of 
inflation and alternative products that wouldve suited his circumstances more so than the 
annuity.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
concluded that Standard Life had given Mr W sufficient information about his options. And 
ultimately it was Mr Ws choice to take out the annuity without advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standard Life says its records show it sent Mr W quotations and then Mr W called it to 
confirm his choices. Due to the time that has passed it no longer has a recording of this call. 
But Mr W hasnt provided any testimony or arguments to say this information isnt correct. 
And had Mr W sought independent financial advice, I think he wouldve told us, and 
Standard Life wouldve had a record of this, as commission would likely have been paid.
The evidence suggests this was a non-advised sale and therefore the responsibility for the 
options chosen were Mr Ws.
Standard Life has sent us a copy of its Retirement Guide that it wouldve provided Mr W 
with at the time. In a number of places, the retirement information guide says that customers 
should consider seeking Independent Financial Advice. Mr W chose not to do so. Mr Ws 
representative has argued that the transaction wasnt execution only, he seems to believe 
that Standard Life should be held responsible as if it gave advice. But I disagree. Mr W 
chose to forego advice and told Standard Life what options he wished to take. Therefore, 
Standard Life is responsible for the information that Mr W was given about his options, but it 
is not held to the same standard as a firm who gave advice would be. 
However, Standard Life did need to provide Mr W with enough information that he could 
make an informed decision. Mr Ws representative says that it didnt do enough to alert Mr W 
to the negative effects of inflation. And alternatives werent highlighted such as a low-cost 
drawdown. But I dont agree. The Retirement Guide had a page about the option of income 
drawdown. Explaining it was an alternative to taking an annuity. And there were a number of 
mentions about the impact of inflation and the opportunity to take a pension that included 
inflation proofing elements. There was also quite a strong warning to customers, that if the 
cost of living was to go up, taking a level pension could mean difficulty in maintaining their 
standard of living.
So I think Mr W was given relevant information informing him that inflation could reduce his 
pension income in the future. And he was given the option to select an increasing annuity 
which he was told would lower the effects of inflation. But he chose to select a level annuity 
that did not increase.
In conclusion, there is no supporting evidence that Mr W was mis-sold his annuity. No advice 
was provided to him by Standard Life, who advised Mr W to seek financial advice. The 
retirement guide sufficiently outlined the other options available to Mr W, and made him 
aware he could shop around with other providers on the open market.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman