DRN-2794397
The complaint
Mr E complains about a life assurance policy sold to him when he changed his mortgage in 
1992. Responsibility for the sale of the policy now sits with HSBC UK Bank Plc. Mr E feels it 
was unreasonable that he had to have the policy, in order to get the mortgage he wanted. 
And he feels the policy was unsuitable for him at the time. 
What happened
The event Mr Es complaining about here took place in 1992. The mortgage appears to have 
come to an end in 1998, when Mr E replaced it with a mortgage from a different bank. 
Theres not a lot of paperwork about the life assurance product Mr Es complaining about. 
Thats not too surprising, given how long its been since all this happened. 
HSBC agreed that Mr E was told hed have to have a life assurance policy to get the 
mortgage in 1992. They said Mr E didnt have to have one of their life policies though, and 
could have chosen a different lender if he hadnt wanted to accept their lending conditions at 
the time. 
Mr E brought his complaint to us for review. Our investigator noted that HSBC were free to 
put conditions like this on their lending in 1992. So he found it was reasonable Mr E had 
been told he had to have life cover to get the mortgage. Mr E had also indicated that the life 
assurance was a decreasing term policy  one where the amount paid on death decreases 
in line with how much is still owed on the mortgage. Our investigator found that was 
reasonable too, as it meant Mr E was only having to pay for the cover needed to pay off the 
mortgage if he died. 
Mr E didnt accept that view. He said there hadnt been a lot of choice for him in 1992 about 
which lender to use, which had forced him to accept HSBCs condition to have the policy. 
And he said he didnt now think it was a decreasing term assurance policy. 
Unresolved, the matters come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive noted above, there isnt a lot of direct independent evidence showing me what 
happened at the time. But based on whats been said during the complaint and our 
investigation, I find HSBCs service was  more likely than not  fair and reasonable in this 
case. 
As a lender  putting their money at risk  it was up to HSBC to decide what terms and 
conditions to apply when agreeing to lend to Mr E. At the time, conditions like this were fairly 
common, and I see no fundamental issue with HSBC having said they would only lend to 
Mr E in 1992 if he had some sort of life cover to repay the loan if he died. 
While I can appreciate Mr E felt there were few alternatives to borrowing from HSBC, that 
reflects his access to borrowing at the time. HSBC arent responsible for decisions other 
lenders may have made about whether to lend to Mr E in 1992.
Ordinarily with a repayment mortgage, having the amount the policy would pay out drop in 
line with the amount owed on the mortgage would likely be the most suitable option, as it 
best balances the cost and benefits of the policy. But I dont have enough evidence here to 
say if this was or wasnt a decreasing term assurance policy. Without evidence that it wasnt 
that sort of policy, I cant see Mr E has shown enough to say his complaint should succeed 
on this specific suitability point. 
I also cant see any evidence that Mr E already had life cover elsewhere  for example from 
his job at the time. So I cant see any argument that the policy was unsuitable because it 
duplicated existing cover Mr E already had.
All this means I find no remedy is needed from HSBC in this case. It was reasonable for 
them to say they wanted Mr E to have life cover before theyd lend him the money. The 
policy they sold him met that condition. And theres no evidence to show the policy was 
unsuitable, given Mr Es circumstances at the time. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman