DRN-2299680
The complaint
Mr D complains that Phoenix Life Limited wrongly withdrew the guaranteed annuity rate 
(GAR) from his pension policy.
What happened
Mr D was a member of his employers group personal pension plan. It was made up of 
protected rights (PR) and non-protected rights (NPR). The NPR part of the policy was used 
to buy an annuity in 2017. Benefits from the PR part of the policy are due to be taken in 
2022. 
In August 2019 Phoenix Life wrote to Mr D to say that information in its 2018 statement was 
wrong. The statement indicated that the GAR would apply to all of the PR policy but, in fact, 
it only applied to part of it. Several years earlier Phoenix Life had decided that guarantees 
wouldnt apply to contributions made after 30 June 1999. 
Mr D complained to Phoenix Life because he said he hadnt been made aware of the 
change. He didnt consider Phoenix Life was able to alter the policy in the way that it had, 
and that its decision meant he was worse off.
Phoenix Life accepted that some of its communication with Mr D couldve been better and 
paid £200 compensation. But it didnt consider it had done anything wrong by altering the 
terms of the policy.
Mr D remained unhappy and Phoenix Life looked at his complaint again. It paid £50 for the 
delay in doing so, but it still wasnt willing to uphold the complaint. Mr D then referred the 
matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Phoenix Lifes policy amendment was a commercial decision that the business was entitled 
to make, and that it had done so in line with the policys terms and conditions.
The investigator acknowledged that Mr D may not have received Phoenix Lifes letter that 
told him about the change. But she didnt consider it reasonable to expect Phoenix Life to 
check that each of its customers had received the letter.
The investigator was satisfied that the compensation paid by Phoenix Life was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He didnt consider the policys terms 
and conditions allowed Phoenix Life to change the GAR in the way that it had. He asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr D has said about his interpretation of the policys 
amendment term. The relevant term says:
13. Changed circumstances
The Assurance Company reserves the right to alter the terms of the Policy and the 
Conditions contained in the Schedules in such a way as it deems appropriate and as may be 
permitted by the Commissioners and the Board in the event of a change in the law or in the 
basis of taxation applicable to the Assurance Company or the Policy or any other material 
change of circumstances which renders it impossible, impracticable or inequitable between 
policyholders fully to comply with all the terms of the Policy or to pursue any stated or 
established practice with respect to the operation of the Fund or its valuation.
Mr D considers this to mean the policy can only be amended in the following circumstances:
If there is a change in the law or basis of taxation applicable to Phoenix Life; or
If Mr D doesnt comply with the terms of the policy.
Mr D says neither of these conditions applied to Phoenix Life or to him, so he considers the 
business should honour his policy in full.
I acknowledge Mr Ds interpretation of the amendment clause, but on balance I think 
Phoenix Lifes ability to change the policy is broader than he has stated. In particular, I think 
the second part of the term confers a wide power on Phoenix Life to make changes where 
any other material change of circumstances makes it impossible, impracticable or 
inequitable between policyholders to comply with the policy terms or pursue established 
practice regarding operation of the fund or its valuation.
Phoenix Life has said the decision to withdraw the GAR was in response to economic 
conditions at the time, and in particular the historically low levels for long term interest rates. 
I think its likely that the impact of economic circumstances was a material change that 
allowed Phoenix Life to remove GARs in line with the amendment term. In the 
circumstances, its likely that retaining the GARs wouldve placed an unsustainable financial 
burden on the value of the fund that wouldve been potentially detrimental to policyholders. 
On balance, therefore, I think its likely that Phoenix Life withdrew the GAR in line with the 
policys amendment provisions. 
My duty, as set out above, is to reach a view on the basis of a fair and reasonable analysis 
of the clause in question, and what I think this would fairly have meant for the relationship 
between the business and its policyholders. My analysis needs have regard for the law, and 
be formed in the context of the rules and regulations in place at the time, along with what 
might have been considered to be good practice. And my analysis and interpretation is as 
set out above.
Phoenix Life has provided a copy of the information that was sent to customers when the 
GAR was withdrawn. I accept that Mr D may not recall receiving a copy of that information. 
But whether or not he received it, Phoenix Life was still able to make the change to the policy. It wasnt required to consult with policyholders before doing so, or get their agreement 
to the change. So this point doesnt change my overall conclusions about the complaint. 
Phoenix Life has paid £250 in total to Mr D for poor communication and a delay in dealing 
with his complaint. I think thats fair, but I wont be asking it to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman