DRN-4279623
The complaint
Mr S complains that when ReAssure Limited transferred his pension to a SIPP with 
Interactive Investor the value of the transfer was less than he expected and it took longer 
than it should have.
Mr S wants ReAssure to provide full details of the transfer and an explanation of the delay.
What happened
Mr S held a pension with ReAssure that he wanted to transfer to another provider -
Interactive Investor. In late November 2020, Interactive Investor asked ReAssure to transfer 
Mr Ss pension using the Origo platform. Mr S expected the transfer to complete by early 
December 2020 but this didnt happen until 10 February 2021.
Mr S complained to ReAssure about the delay and because the value of the transfer was
less than expected. Mr S noticed that the Morant Wright Nippon Yield fund had disappeared
from his account before the transfer took place.
Mr S asked ReAssure for details of what had happened but didnt receive a reply. After he
complained, ReAssure apologised for the transfer delay and sent Mr S a cheque for £150
made up of £125 for the inconvenience and £25 for lost interest.
The investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint be upheld. He didnt think ReAssures
offer was reasonable as it hadnt assessed whether the delay caused Mr S a financial loss.
The investigator asked ReAssure to carry out a full calculation to establish whether Mr S had
suffered a financial loss, together with an improved offer of compensation of £250. The
investigator thought it reasonable to say that Mr Ss pension transfer should have completed 
by 7 December 2020 with the reinvestment being available from the next day  8 December
2020.
The investigator asked ReAssure to tell Mr S what had happened with the value of the
Morant Wright Nippon fund as he thought it had been removed from his pension plan without
his knowledge.
ReAssure apologised and said that the loss assessment was part of its resolution to Mr Ss
complaint but that it hadnt told him about this. ReAssure initially told this service that it
considered its compensation offer of £150 was reasonable. However, it later changed its
mind and accepted the investigators recommendation.
The investigator told Mr S that ReAssure now accepted his view, including that it was willing
to carry out a full loss assessment. And that as ReAssure had offered to pay £125 in addition
to the original £150 cheque, the amount of compensation would be slightly higher at £275.
Mr S was reluctant to accept ReAssures proposed outcome in case it didnt do what it had
agreed, leaving him having to bring a fresh complaint later.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 October 2022 in which I said:
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key 
issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean 
Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
ReAssure accepts that there was a delay in transferring Mr Ss pension to Interactive
Investor, so I dont intend repeating the timeline in my decision. Like the investigator, 
my decision is concerned with whether ReAssure has already done and offered 
enough to put things right.
I agree with the investigator that ReAssures offer to pay £150 wasnt adequate and 
that his suggestion to pay £250 better reflects the uncertainty Mr S was left with after 
ReAssure failed to tell him that it intended carrying out an assessment of loss as part 
of its efforts to put things right for him.
Although the investigator told Mr S that ReAssure now wants to pay him £275, I dont 
think this is correct. ReAssure intended to make the offer in line with the 
investigators recommendation  which was to pay £250 to include the £150 cheque 
already sent. I think the confusion stems from the fact that when ReAssure sent Mr S 
the cheque for £150 - £125 of this was for the inconvenience and £25 was for late 
payment interest. As ReAssure has agreed to calculate Mr Ss loss as a result the 
delay  the recent offer to pay £125 is in addition to the original offer to pay £125 for 
the inconvenience caused. I consider that £250 in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused to Mr S is fair and reasonable.
In March 2022, ReAssure apologised for the delay calculating Mr Ss loss. It said it 
had used a different calculation based on how much growth his funds missed out on 
during the delay. Having done so, ReAssure said that Mr S hadnt lost out on 
anything but offered to pay him £50.
ReAssure has since agreed to carry out an assessment of whether the delay caused 
Mr S to lose out financially in line with the investigators recommendation. As far as 
Im aware, it hasnt yet done this. ReAssure hasnt disagreed with the investigators 
approach and Mr S has agreed, so I dont propose to change the redress here. So, 
my decision includes a direction to ReAssure to carry out the assessment taking 8 
December 2020 as the starting point for when the transfer shouldve taken place. 
This should aim to put Mr S as close as possible to the position he wouldve been in 
now if the transfer from ReAssure hadnt been delayed.
Its possible that ReAssures loss assessment may not result in any compensation 
being due to Mr S and I think he understands this. However, Mr S remains concerned 
about a drop in the number of units held in each of the funds before ReAssure 
transferred them to Interactive Investor. Mr S says that during a call with ReAssure in 
June 2022, he was given the number of units in each of the funds and the value of 
the funds at the transfer date. And that he was surprised that the number of units in 
each fund was less than in a valuation statement from ReAssure dated 2 September 
2020. So, as part of putting things right, ReAssure should provide Mr S with details of 
the closing balance for the funds it held at the point of transfer, together with an easy 
to understand explanation of any difference (if there is one) between the number and 
value of units ReAssure held prior to the transfer (as outlined in the September 2020 
valuation statement) and the number and value it transferred to Interactive
Investor.If it hasnt done so already, ReAssure should also confirm that it has sent any 
necessary notifications to HMRC as Mr S noted recently that his tax code showed 
two pensions when he now only has one.
I then outlined what steps ReAssure should take to put things right for Mr S. 
Both Mr S and ReAssure responded to my first provisional decision. Mr S thought that Id 
placed too much emphasis on the first part of his complaint which centres around the delay 
by ReAssure when making the transfer. Mr S said this represents a small amount of money 
to him. Instead, Mr Ss main concern was to find out what happened with the missing units.
Mr S referred to a conversation hed had with ReAssure when it said the number of units 
held in his pension had been reduced and that was why the amount transferred was lower 
than expected. Mr S wanted ReAssure to explain why it sold over 3000 units without his 
agreement. 
ReAssure agreed with my provisional decision but changed the start date for calculating 
compensation from 8 December 2020 to 17 December 2020. Using this revised start date, 
ReAssure confirmed that it had carried out a loss assessment which showed a loss to Mr S 
of £2,165.80. 
The investigator sent ReAssures loss calculation to Mr S for comment. He came back to 
query why ReAssure had calculated his loss based on the funds he currently holds with 
Interactive Investor. Mr S said he no longer held some of the funds that ReAssure had based 
its calculations upon. Mr S also said he currently holds some of the balance in cash due to 
the present state of the market.
Mr S wanted ReAssure to acknowledge that almost 3020 fund units were missing from his 
pension on the transfer date, which meant he lost out on over £4,600. Mr S also wanted 
ReAssure to base its calculations of loss on the actual fund value, not what might have 
happened when trading with Interactive Investor.
 On 17 July 2023, I issued a second provisional decision in which I said:
My understanding of the calculation of loss that ReAssure has provided is that it 
looks at how Mr Ss investment wouldve performed at Interactive Investor had the 
delay not happened. In other words, the position Mr S would have been in had the 
right amount been transferred on the right day and invested as Mr S intended. Im 
satisfied that ReAssures methodology is reasonable. 
My approach follows on the same lines, although I disagree with the dates ReAssure 
has used. ReAssure thinks 17 December rather than 8 December 2020 is the 
appropriate date but it hasnt explained why. So, I dont consider I need to change 
the original date of 8 December 2020 on which to base the loss calculation. Clearly 
ReAssure will need to update the loss calculation if Mr S accepts my decision.
However, Mr S has confirmed that he no longer holds some of the funds that 
ReAssure based its calculation on and that he also holds some of the balance in 
cash. As a result, I no longer think it would be fair for ReAssure to assume Mr S 
would have been invested in the same way until the date of settlement. My approach 
to redress, outlined below, reflects this.
Throughout this complaint, Mr Ss most pressing concern has been to try and 
establish whether and/or why there were missing units from his pension at the point 
ReAssure transferred it to Interactive Investor. When ReAssure first responded to my provisional decision, it didnt provide further 
information about why there was a difference between the number of units held in the 
fund in its valuation statement of early September 2020 and the units held at the 
point of transfer to Interactive Investors. So, Ive been back and forth with ReAssure 
to try and understand what happened.
Having considered everything that both ReAssure and Mr S have told us, my view is 
Mr Ss missing unts can all be accounted for. I should also say that the information 
provided by ReAssure has been confusing at times, making Mr Ss complaint far 
more protracted than it needed to be.
Mr S gave us a very helpful spreadsheet detailing the movements in his funds. This 
shows the number of units held in each of Mr Ss funds as at:
30 June 2020  20,317 units
2 September 2020 - 20,377 units
24 November 2020  17,357 units
Mr S took the fund values from information hed received from ReAssure. This 
included a valuation statement from 2 September 2020. 
In late August/early September 2020, Mr S withdrew around £2,580 from his pension 
pot. The valuation statement of 2 September 2020 referred to this withdrawal. So, my 
understanding is that Mr S thought the unit figures for each fund on that statement 
already took account of this withdrawal. Mr S was therefore surprised to find 
ReAssure went on to sell less units and realise less money than expected in late 
November 2020.
As Ive said, we asked ReAssure to explain what had happened to the units. 
Although ReAssure has given us some contradictory evidence in response to our 
questions, Im satisfied that we now know what happened to the units that Mr S held.
In early September 2020, ReAssure sold some units so that Mr S could make the 
withdrawal. Although the valuation statement of 2 September 2020 shows the 
withdrawal that Mr S made, the figures werent updated to reflect the sale of the 
units. ReAssure didnt process the reduction in units until later in September 2020.
If ReAssure had already taken account of the withdrawal at the time of the valuation 
statement, I wouldve expected to see a decrease in the number of units held in the 
fund from June 2020 to 2 September 2020. Instead, the number of units held in each 
fund as at 2 September 2020 had increased since 30 June 2020. This indicates that 
the figures in the valuation statement did not include the sale of the units. 
Unfortunately, ReAssure didnt produce a new valuation statement so it continued to 
use the same figures for the pension forecast it provided to Mr S. 
If you deduct the number of units held in November 2020 from those held in 
September 2020 and then multiply each of the deducted units by the relevant bid 
price, this roughly equates to the amount of Mr Ss withdrawal of £2,580. Again, this 
leads me to conclude that the reason for the drop in the number of units held at the 
point of transfer was that ReAssure sold them in line with Mr Ss instructions in 
August/September 2020.
As part of ReAssures responses to our recent enquiries, it says it carried out a 
manual fund fix around September 2020. This resulted in a further small drop in the number of units held in each of Mr Ss funds. ReAssure says this was due to 
exception records and was probably carried out to manually correct the policy 
records. There was also a further small reduction in units at the point of transfer in 
November 2020. ReAssure says that this reduction in units used to calculate the final 
value, was due to charges applied between September and the date of encashment.
Im satisfied this means the figures are an accurate reflection of the movement in Mr 
Ss pension. So, Im satisfied that ReAssure has now done enough to explain what 
happened to the units in Mr Ss pension and that the figures it has provided are 
correct.
Finally, on the question of compensation, given the length of time that Mr S has been 
trying to find out what happened to the units he thought were missing and the 
difficulties he has faced trying to get a straight answer from ReAssure  I consider it 
reasonable to require ReAssure to pay more compensation than in my provisional 
decision. I consider £400 rather than £250 is fair in the circumstances. 
I then outlined what steps ReAssure should take to put things right. 
Further submissions
ReAssure didnt respond by the deadline in my provisional decision. But Mr S remains 
unhappy with the proposed outcome. He doesnt think ReAssure has fully explained why his 
fund was reduced in value. Mr S isnt satisfied with ReAssures explanation that there was a 
manual fund fix. He also points out that ReAssure only applied charges totalling £285 in 
2020 so wonders what charges ReAssure applied in September 2020 to account for the 
reduction in units.
Mr S is unhappy that we havent insisted that ReAssure provide full disclosure and have 
instead accepted hypothetical numbers in order to close the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully appreciate Mr Ss unhappiness with the way that ReAssure handled his funds and 
subsequent concerns. I can also understand his frustration with the information ReAssure 
has provided in response to his complaint. However, we offer an informal dispute resolution 
service - we are not a court of law. Its my role to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened based on the evidence Ive seen. Having considered everything again, I still think 
ReAssure has done enough to explain what happened to Mr Ss pension. 
It follows that I consider it reasonable to make my final decision along the same lines as my 
second provisional decision. Im sorry if this comes as a disappointment to Mr S.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr S fairly, ReAssure should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ss investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, nocompensation is payable.
ReAssure should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, ReAssure should pay into Mr Ss pension plan, to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Payment should allow for the
effect of charges and any available tax relief. ReAssure shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If ReAssure is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ss pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to
HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
In addition, ReAssure should pay Mr S £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delay in transferring his pension and not responding in a 
comprehensive manner to Mr Ss queries about his transfer. Mr S says he hasnt 
cashed the £150 cheque that ReAssure sent him. Its unlikely that Mr Ss bank would 
now accept that cheque given that more than six months has passed since it was 
written. So, if Mr S accepts my final decision, ReAssure will have to issue a new 
cheque to him for £400 and Mr S should not attempt to pay in the original £150 
cheque.
Confirm that it has sent any required notification to HMRC about the transfer of        
Mr Ss pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ReAssure considers that it is required by 
HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, ReAssure should tell Mr S how much it has 
taken off. ReAssure should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Mr Ss 
transferred 
ReAssure Still 
exists 
and The 
investment 
portfolio Mr S 8 December 
2020Date of 
transfer8% simple 
per year 
on any pension liquid purchased 
with 
Interactive 
Investor 
following the 
transferloss from 
the end 
date to 
the date 
of 
settlement 
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had Mr Ss transfer 
happened when it should have done and the transfer value Mr S should have had, had been 
available for reinvestment with Interactive Investor from 8 December 2020 and produced a 
return using the benchmark. I consider it reasonable to take Mr Ss Interactive Investor 
portfolio as at the end of February 2021 as being representative of the portfolio he would 
have invested in had the transfer been completed on 8 December 2020.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the pension should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if
ReAssure totals all those payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require 
ReAssure Limited to take the steps outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman