DRN-2558411
The complaint
Mr D complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd refused a heart attack claim under his critical 
illness policy, and instead cancelled the policy altogether. 
To resolve his complaint, Mr D wants Zurich to pay his claim in full.       
What happened
Mr D applied for his policy in October 2016. It began the following month and offered him 
£20,000 of level life cover and critical illness benefit over a 21 year term. The policy came 
into force the following month.   
Sadly, Mr D suffered a heart attack in October 2019 whilst overseas. He therefore made a 
claim for critical illness benefit to Zurich.  
Zurich sought information from Mr Ds doctor in order to investigate Mr Ds claim. In doing 
so, it found that Mr D had answered a question on his policy application incorrectly regarding 
blood pressure.  
In May 2020, Zurich refused Mr Ds claim. It said Mr D had attended his GP surgery in July 
and August 2015 in relation to his blood pressure. An ECG was proposed but Mr D didnt 
attend it. Zurich said if it had known about this history, it couldnt have insured Mr D. 
Because of this, it cancelled the cover and returned the policy premiums he had paid.   
  
Mr D complained to Zurich in writing. He firstly said that he did take blood pressure readings 
at home, and these were normal. He was told that visits to the GP can be stressful and 
therefore encouraged to monitor his blood pressure at home. Nothing else happened and he 
was never diagnosed with any condition or told to take medication. 
He said that it was unreasonable to expect him to recall something from a year and half 
previously, especially when his doctor had not told him about it. He explained he had no 
history of heart issues nor did any of his family members; he felt strongly that Zurich had no 
right to rescind his insurance contract and avoid his claim but it chose to do so in order to 
save costs. 
Zurich was unwilling to change its view on the claim and cancellation of the policy. It said Mr 
D was asked if hed ever had raised blood pressure and two medical records from 2015 
showed raised blood pressure readings. If Mr D disputed the content of his medical records, 
that was something he would need to address with his GP, but Zurich had no reason to 
conclude those medical records were incorrect.     
So, Mr D referred his claim to this service. He said that because of Zurichs actions, he could 
not find insurance elsewhere. He also explained that Zurich had treated him like a fraud, yet 
it had returned his premiums so that couldnt be the case.  
He also explained that he had undergone routine blood pressure checks whenever he saw 
the doctor. But he had never had medication to treat hypertension nor had he been told at 
any time that he had high blood pressure and therefore he considered he had answered 
Zurichs application question correctly. If he had been told differently, he wasnt able to recall 
it. 
In respect of the ECG he had no recollection of being asked to attend an ECG in 2015, only 
an unrelated hospital attendance for a slipped spinal disc.  
Our investigator said he felt Zurich had acted fairly when refusing the claim and cancelling 
Mr Ds policy. This was because if Zurich had known about Mr D having had raised blood 
pressure in July 2015, it couldnt have offered him cover. So, our investigator said Zurich 
was entitled to void the policy now on the grounds of misrepresentation. 
Mr D said he disagreed. He reiterated that he had never been made aware about high blood 
pressure. He asked his GP about the ECG form and was told it would have been completed 
by hand so there is no evidence of it and he had never seen it. Mr D didnt think he should 
be at fault because Zurich didnt tell him to seek his medical history from his GP. 
Mr D also said he could never have expected that he would suffer a heart attack and had 
otherwise been in good health. As he contended that he answered the application questions 
correctly, Zurich should not have cancelled the cover. It should instead have considered and 
paid his claim. 
Zurich had no further comments to make.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that Zurich has acted 
reasonably in the circumstances. I know Mr D will be disappointed by my decision, but Ill set 
my reasons for my conclusions out below.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what Zurich has done. 
When it received the information to process Mr Ds claim, Zurich was prompted to review his 
medical records, because the report sent from overseas (incorrectly) stated that Mr D had a 
history of coronary heart disease. 
It is therefore reasonable that Zurich reviewed what Mr D was asked on the policy 
application. It said, Have you ever had raised Blood Pressure or raised Cholesterol? Mr D 
answered no. 
However, Mr Ds medical records differ from his recollection of events. I will not repeat it 
here in full as Zurich has supplied it to Mr D and I understand Mr D has also pursued an 
enquiry with the GP as well. In summary, the two records from July and four weeks later in 
August 2016 for attendances with a nurse show blood pressure readings that were both 
within the stage two blood pressure (hypertension) category. 
The first record of July sets outs that if the four-week follow up shows raised blood pressure 
then blood tests and an ECG would be necessary. As this was the case, the record says that Mr D was given an ECG request form and told to book in with his doctor when it was 
complete. 
I realise that Mr D disputes almost all of these two entries. He does accept that he was 
checking his blood pressure at home and the readings were different  and the nurse on the 
second visit recorded this. Be that as it may, I cant simply disregard one part of the medical 
records and I dont consider that Zurich should either. 
I understand Mr D disagrees with what is stated but I have seen no clear evidence that his 
GP records are wrong or that it was unreasonable for Zurich to rely on their content. I 
recognise that Mr D attended with his daughter as English is not his first language but again, 
Ive seen no objective evidence to suggest Mr D was misinformed. Instead, Mr D submits 
that he knew he had measured his own blood pressure and the matter was left there as his 
readings were normal.  
Weighing Mr Ds recollections against the contemporaneous evidence and noting that Mr D 
confirms he was taking his own readings, I believe it was more likely he was informed that 
he had adverse readings on those dates and that an ECG was recommended on that basis. 
That Mr D had taken normal readings at home and chose not to pursue with the ECG was a 
matter for him, but Zurich needed to know he had raised blood pressure when taken at his 
GP surgery. That is because the question doesnt ask about a diagnosis of hypertension, but 
instead asks if the applicant has ever had raised blood pressure. I do not believe that a little 
over a year is a significantly long period to be able to recall, in the context of a lifelong 
medical history and where Mr D says he was otherwise fit and well. In my view, the question 
ought to have been answered positively. 
Im also mindful that during the application process and after the policy information was sent 
to Mr D, Zurich provided clear reminders of the importance of answering questions 
accurately. Mr D also signed a declaration which set out that:
I have answered the questions in this form honestly and accurately and the 
information I have provided in response to the questions is, to the best of my 
knowledge, complete and correct. I am aware that if I havent answered the 
questions correctly the plan may be cancelled, or its terms may be changed, or a 
claim may be rejected or not fully paid. Cancelling a plan means that no cover or 
other benefits will be provided.
I believe there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, relevant law on 
disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be categorised in one of two 
ways  either, as deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. 
Any deliberate or reckless misrepresentation will result in the voiding of an insurance policy, 
with or without the return of premiums.  
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer must consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. Otherwise, if it would not have been able to insure the applicant, it can void the 
policy.
Zurich hasnt gone further to categorise the type of misrepresentation in Mr Ds case 
because either way, it couldnt have insured him. Though I believe in the circumstances that 
was acceptable, in my view Mr Ds actions fall within the careless category, and that Mr D made a mistake or oversight resulting from a lack of care rather than any intent to deceive 
Zurich as he has previously suggested. 
Having now seen the underwriting guidance used by Zurich, it has correctly set out that 
insurance terms couldnt have been offered to Mr D at the time, if he had answered yes to 
the question. The reason for this is that Mr Ds circumstances remained under investigation 
without conclusion within his medical records. In theory, a person who sought insurance with 
Mr Ds recorded hypertension readings would have been offered some cover by Zurich, but it 
would have been rated by 50%  meaning the policy would have been more costly. 
However, that is only the case where investigations are complete. Zurichs underwriting will 
not provide acceptance on rated terms where an ECG is outstanding. It needs the results of 
the ECG, following which an assessment will be made of offering cover on rated terms, 
depending on what the ECG showed and if any other diagnoses were made. 
The ABI Code of Practice in respect of careless misrepresentation when deciding a 
proportionate remedy (the 2013 Code being the most relevant at the time of Mr Ds claim), 
says:
4.2.5 The underwriting decision would have been deferred  In cases where the 
underwriting decision would have been deferred, or where the decision to defer the 
cover would have been made. As far as possible, insurers should try to determine 
what the ultimate underwriting decision would have been (that is, at the end of the 
deferred period or when the investigation was complete) and apply the appropriate 
remedy as above. If it is not possible to work out whether the insurer would have 
offered any cover, or if the deferral decision would have required the customer to re-
apply at a future date, then this should be treated as a decline in 4.2.4 above.
In Mr Ds case, it simply isnt possible to determine whether he could have been offered any 
cover. He did not undergo an ECG, which Zurich would have required the results of before 
its underwriters would agree to consider insuring him. So, it is reasonable for Zurich to 
cancel the policy and return the premiums to Mr D. I therefore cannot order it to pay his 
critical illness claim.   
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr Ds circumstances I cannot uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman