DRN-3649124
The complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited failed to provide him with clear and accurate 
information about some pension benefits that he was entitled to receive. And he further 
complains that ReAssure failed to send him the vesting application forms that he requested 
in a timely manner, resulting in delays to the commencement of the payment of his pension 
benefits.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr M holds pension benefits with ReAssure. Those benefits arose from a Section 32 
Buy Out policy that Mr M opened in October 1987. When the policy commenced, it 
was set up with an expected retirement date of Mr Ms 60th birthday, in April 2019.
In 2019 Mr M says that he had a number of discussions with ReAssure about his 
pension benefits. But he says those conversations, and the documentation he was 
subsequently sent, failed to make it sufficiently clear that the Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension (GMP) benefits the policy was set to provide could be paid earlier than the 
statutory retirement age of 65. So he says that he did not take those pension benefits 
at that time.
In 2021 Mr M was made redundant by his employer. He had also suffered some 
serious health problems in 2019. In February 2021 Mr M started further discussions 
with ReAssure about taking his GMP benefits. He says those conversations were 
difficult and underlined that ReAssure staff did not fully understand the pension policy 
that he held.
However, after further escalating the matter, Mr M says he was provided with a full 
understanding of his available pension benefits. So, in early May 2021 ReAssure told 
Mr M that it would send him the forms he needed to complete in order to put his 
pension into payment. It appears that request was overlooked, and Mr M says that he 
chased the missing forms on a number of occasions.
 
The required paperwork was sent to Mr M on 10 June. Once completed the forms 
were returned to ReAssure by Mr M, and their receipt was recorded by ReAssure on 
16 June. That is the date that ReAssure used to commence payment of Mr Ms 
pension benefits. But due to some further processing delays, Mr M didnt actually 
receive his first payment (albeit containing some backdated income) until around two 
months later.
Mr M has actually made two separate complaints to ReAssure that were responded 
to in different final response letters. But ReAssure and Mr M have consented to both 
complaints being dealt with in a single final decision. And so my findings here will 
consider both the information Mr M was given before he put his pension into 
payment, and any delays in the start of those payments.
When Mr M made his complaint ReAssure accepted that it hadnt provided him with 
the information hed asked for about his GMP benefits as quickly as it should have. 
So it said that it would send him £250 as an apology. But it didnt agree that Mr M 
had been prevented from taking his pension benefits at age 60. And ReAssure also 
agreed that it hadnt put Mr Ms pension benefits into payment as quickly as it would 
have expected. So it said it would send him a further £200 for the trouble and upset 
hed been caused by the delay between the receipt of his completed vesting forms, 
and the start of his pension payments.
I think it would first be helpful for me to set out what I understand of the pension plan 
that Mr M held with ReAssure  and I think doing so will help to highlight why Mr Ms 
situation was a little more complex than might be the case for other consumers.
 
Section 32 plans were created by transferring some benefits from an existing 
occupational pension scheme into a personal pension. Once set up, section 32 plans 
couldnt accept further transfers from other workplace pensions, or contributions from 
the consumer or their employer.
The transfer that was made for Mr M comprised guaranteed benefits called a 
guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). ReAssure agreed to take on the responsibility 
to pay the GMP when Mr M reached age 65 regardless of how well the pension had 
performed.
In many cases the assumptions about investment growth that were made at the time 
of the transfer have proved to be overly optimistic. So the pension savings that a 
consumer holds in their section 32 plan are insufficient to purchase an annuity 
equivalent to the GMP they are entitled to receive. In those cases the pension 
provider is required to make good any shortfall to ensure that the GMP is received 
from age 65.
But, like Mr Ms pension plan, the retirement age that was set on the policy at 
inception was sometimes earlier than age 65  Mr Ms retirement age was set at 60 
years. But where there was a shortfall in the pension value, providers would only be 
required to pay the GMP from age 65. And that sometimes led to a delay in pension 
benefits being provided. So pension providers might show an understandable degree 
of caution when discussing any benefits that would be due from a section 32 plan.
Mr Ms pension investments had however performed well. And, by the time he 
reached age 60, they were sufficient to purchase an annuity that would be equal to 
the GMP hed been promised. So it would have been possible for Mr M to take his 
pension benefits earlier than the statutory age of 65.
I can see that Mr M did have a number of conversations with ReAssure in early 2019 
about the benefits that he held. It is clear that he understood the valuable nature of 
the GMP benefits that he held. ReAssure hasnt been able to provide us with 
recordings of those calls, but I have reviewed the brief notes that were made at the 
time. From those I would tend to agree with Mr M that ReAssure wasnt always able 
to answer his questions immediately  there are a number of instances where call 
backs, or letters, were promised to provide him with the explanations he sought.
But I think the most important communication that I should consider is the written 
details that ReAssure sent to Mr M about the pension benefits that were available to him. I think those letters, that were clearly templated, were designed to cover both 
the situation where a GMP wasnt sufficiently funded  and so couldnt be paid until 
age 65  and those where an immediate pension of equal value could be taken. So 
although the quotation that was sent to Mr M clearly told him that an annual pension 
of £5,903.04 (equal to the GMP) could be paid when he reached age 60, it didnt 
specifically tell him that he wouldnt lose out on his GMP benefits by taking his 
pension income before age 65.
But I dont think that was something that ReAssure was required to explain to Mr M. It 
wasnt providing him with advice, or a recommendation, about what he should do. 
Instead it was simply required to set out the options that were available. And I think it 
clearly told Mr M the amount of the pension annuity that could be paid when he 
reached 60 years of age.
Mr M didnt take his pension benefits at that time. I am mindful that he suffered some 
very serious health problems around that time. And, of course, he was still employed 
and enjoying his normal income. Mr M has told us that he wasnt made aware that he 
would be made redundant until November 2020. So it could be that Mr M, at the time, 
had no need to take his pension benefits. But since his pension plan had now passed 
the originally selected retirement age, the retirement age on the plan was 
automatically updated (in line with the policy terms) to age 75. That didnt, of course, 
mean that Mr M was precluded from taking his benefits until that time  they were still 
available to him on request. But it did mean that the routine information ReAssure 
sent to him, such as annual statements, now reflected the pension benefits that were 
expected to be available when he reached 75, rather than those he could take 
immediately.
So whilst I entirely understand why Mr M might have been confused by the changes 
in the information ReAssure had sent to him, I dont think it reflects an error that 
needs to be corrected, or something that ReAssure has done wrong.
Although I dont think ReAssure has done anything wrong here, I will just briefly touch 
on one other aspect of this part of Mr Ms complaint. He has said that he has missed 
out on two years worth of income through not taking his benefits immediately.
It is clear that what Mr M says here is true. But that missed income is offset by him 
now receiving an annuity in excess of the GMP that he was entitled to receive. 
I appreciate that Mr M says it will take around 20 years before the additional annuity 
income makes up for the two years of missed payments. But that would seem to me 
to be reasonable  the annuity is paid for Mr Ms remaining lifetime, and based on 
current mortality assumptions that period of time seems in line with the time for which 
the additional sums will be paid. So even if I thought ReAssure had needed to 
communicate differently (which for the avoidance of doubt I dont), then Mr M wont 
have suffered a direct financial loss.
Following his further discussions with ReAssure in April and May 2021, Mr M decided 
to take his pension benefits. On 4 May he requested that ReAssure send him the 
paperwork he would need to complete in order for his pension benefits to be put into 
payment. It seems clear to me that request was overlooked, and I can see that Mr M 
chased the paperwork from ReAssure on a number of occasions over the following 
weeks. It wasnt until 10 June that ReAssure sent the forms to Mr M.
Mr M appears to have accepted ReAssures apology for the time it took from him 
returning those forms to the pension being put into payment, although I will comment 
on the compensatory payment that ReAssure offered a little later in this decision. And it seems that the income payments due to Mr M were backdated to the receipt of the 
forms by ReAssure on 16 June. So those delays havent caused Mr M to miss out on 
any pension income.
But I agree entirely with what Mr M says here. If ReAssure had sent the forms out to 
him when they were originally requested on 4 May, his pension would have started 
earlier than it did. And that isnt income that Mr M can get back  his pension is 
naturally limited by his lifespan, so any delays to its start will result in a direct loss. 
I have no reason to think that the timeframe for Mr M returning the paperwork would 
have differed if the forms had been sent out when they were originally requested. So 
I think that Mr M has lost out on 37 days of pension income as a result of ReAssure 
initially failing to issue the retirement paperwork.
As I said earlier, ReAssure has offered a total of £450 to Mr M in respect of the 
trouble and upset he has faced as a result of its failings in providing information to 
Mr M about his pension policy, and the delays in putting the pension into payment. 
Mr M says that those payments havent been received by him. I think that the 
amounts ReAssure has offered are reasonable and in line with what I would normally 
direct in circumstances similar to these. So I think those payments should also be 
made to Mr M. If ReAssure thinks those payments have already been made it should 
provide evidence in response to this provisional decision, so that I can amend my 
findings before a final decision is issued.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Although Mr M doesnt agree with my findings in relation to the 
information he was given by ReAssure, he hasnt offered any further arguments or evidence. 
Mr M says that he is pleased to accept the remainder of my findings.
ReAssure doesnt agree with my findings on the second part of Mr Ms complaint. It says that 
its records suggest that Mr M didnt ask to be sent the vesting information for his pension 
benefits until the call he had on 10 May. It accepts its failure to issue the paperwork at that 
time could have caused a slight delay in setting up Mr Ms pension benefits but says that all 
but 2 days of that delay was cancelled out by its action in expediting the processing of 
Mr Ms instructions. It says that if its normal processing SLA had applied, Mr Ms pension 
wouldnt have been paid much earlier even if the forms had been sent out immediately they 
were requested. ReAssure says that on 13 January 2022 it paid £250 of the compensation it 
offered to Mr M. It says it will pay the remainder when my final decision has been issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the discrepancy between Mr Ms recollection of when he asked for the vesting 
paperwork, and what ReAssure said happened, I asked ReAssure to provide a copy of any 
call recording from 4 May. ReAssure had previously been unable to locate a copy of that 
recording.
ReAssure did provide the call recording and I have listened carefully to the entire call. From 
that I agree with ReAssure that Mr M didnt make any request for the vesting paperwork to 
be issued at that time. So, as ReAssure says, the request was first made on 10 May. I have 
asked the investigator to discuss that discrepancy with Mr M, and he has said he is happy to 
accept my revised findings that the date of his request was 10 May.ReAssure has said that it expedited the processing of Mr Ms instruction to put his pension 
into payment as it was aware of the delays it had caused in sending out the paperwork. So it 
says I should base my findings on its normal SLA, rather than the actual timescales that 
applied. And it says if that were the case, Mr M would only have suffered a two-day delay.
Ive thought carefully about what ReAssure has said. But Im not persuaded that would be a 
reasonable approach to take. By the time Mr M made his request for the vesting paperwork 
ReAssure was already dealing with his complaint  it was well aware from the conversations 
that it had held with him that he was unhappy he hadnt received more comprehensive 
information about the funding status of his GMP benefits and so he had been delayed in 
taking them. So I dont think it would have been unusual for ReAssure to take additional care 
when processing his application, and ensured that things moved as quickly as possible.
I dont think it would be right to use the SLA that ReAssure refers to, as the average, or most 
common, length of time for processing. There are many other factors that might influence 
how long processing an instruction takes  and in my experience processing takes less time 
than the SLA in many cases. So I think it most reasonable that I base my expectation of how 
long it would have taken to process Mr Ms instruction on the time that it actually took. So, 
with the exception of a different starting date (10 May rather than 4 May) Ive not been 
persuaded that I should change the redress I set out in my provisional decision.
So I think that Mr M has lost out on 31 days of pension income as a result of ReAssure 
initially failing to issue the retirement paperwork and it needs to pay him some 
compensation.
Putting things right
As I have explained above, and in my provisional decision, I think that ReAssures failure to 
send the retirement paperwork to Mr M has resulted in him missing out on 31 days of 
pension income. So ReAssure should make a compensatory payment to Mr M equivalent to 
31 days of annuity income. But that payment would have been subject to income tax, so it is 
reasonable for ReAssure to reduce this compensation by Mr Ms marginal rate of taxation in 
the relevant tax year.
Neither ReAssure nor Mr M have disputed my assumption that Mr M was likely to have been 
a basic rate taxpayer at the time his annuity started, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
ReAssure should add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to the total additional 
annuity amount from the 16 May 2021 to the date of settlement.
ReAssure has shown that it has already paid Mr M £250 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset he has been caused. ReAssure should now pay to Mr M, the remaining £200 that it 
has previously offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ms complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman