DRN-3749200
The complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
alongside his mortgage.
What happened
Mr G has complained about his PPI policy sold by Lloyds. He says he wasnt told the policy 
was optional nor was he told he could get PPI from another provider. Lloyds says the policy 
was sold fairly and did not agree to uphold his complaint. 
Due to the length of time thats passed, there is limited information available from the sale. 
But both parties seem to agree that the policy was most likely taken out in December 1994 in 
a branch. The policy provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations. It cost £45.08 per month and offered to repay £530.26 per 
month for up to 12 months in the event of Mr G being unable to work due to accident, 
sickness and unemployment.  
Our adjudicator considered all of the available evidence and felt the policy was not mis-sold. 
Mr G disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided the policy was not mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Due to the length of time thats passed not all the documents from the sale are now 
available. But this isnt surprising as business are not required to keep customer documents 
indefinitely. In cases such as this I must consider the evidence available and make a 
decision on what I think is more likely to have happened in the circumstances.  
Lloyds have said the optional nature of the policy wouldve been discussed before Mr G 
agreed to take out the PPI and he wouldve had to agree to the policy before it was added to 
his mortgage. Mr G says he doesnt think he was told the PPI was optional and he says he 
wasnt told he could take out PPI with another provider. Ive thought about what Mr G has 
said but Ive also considered that this sale took place a long time ago  and its difficult for 
me to rely on what Mr G has said alone to conclude that something untoward happened. 
So, in the absence of any stronger information or any other evidence to support what Mr G 
has said, I think its more likely that the policy was presented as optional and Mr G agreed to 
take it out. 
Our adjudicator considered the information we do have and felt this was an advised sale. 
Neither party has responded to disagree with this point, so I have also considered this to 
have been an advised sale.
This means Lloyds had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr G - 
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he 
seems to have had a need for this type of cover.
Mr G was entitled to sick pay at the time and says he couldve relied on his parents support if 
needed. But the PPI wouldve paid out for longer than his sick pay wouldve lasted. And as 
Mr G was solely responsible for the mortgage, I think it wouldve helped to have this financial 
commitment protected. And while I appreciate that his parents wouldve wanted to help him 
had he fallen into difficulty  having the policy in place meant that his mortgage wouldve 
been repaid and he couldve used his family support to help with other expenses. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr G about the policy wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But its likely he chose to take out the policy and for the same reasons I
think the policy was suitable for him, I think it wouldve been useful had something gone
wrong. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out
the cover.
So overall, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For all the reasons outlined above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman