DRN-2342107
The complaint
Mr D complained that he had to go through additional security validations when he called 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
Mr D called Nationwide. He had to go through additional security validations on several 
occasions, when he believed that he had already passed.
Mr D complained. He said that he had already passed security checks and that should have 
been enough. But on some occasions, he had to go through the same checks again. This 
was frustrating and wasted his time. He also had to pay extra phone charges as a result. 
This happened in April 2020 and again in May 2020. Mr D had asked that Nationwide call 
him back about his complaint, but this didnt happen.
Nationwide replied on 22 April 2020. They said that on two occasions in April 2020, he was 
put through to a second member of staff after already having passed security checks. 
Because the handover wasnt completed correctly, Mr D had to go through a further set of 
checks. This was an error. Nationwide apologised. They paid Mr D £75 compensation.
Mr D replied and asked for £100 compensation. Nationwide issued its final response on 23 
April 2020 and said that they believed that £75 was fair. Mr D brought his complaint to this 
service in May 2020.
Our investigator responded in November 2020. There had been further instances of double 
security checks in May and July. She said that Nationwide believed that its response in April 
2020 was enough to deal with Mr Ds complaint. She said that matters of telephone security 
were for Nationwide to decide. It was important for them to have measures in place to 
protect their customers.  On occasions, they had got it wrong and Mr D had unnecessarily 
gone through a second security check when he was passed to another department. They 
had apologised and paid Mr D £75 compensation. She felt that this was fair and reasonable.
Mr D asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D felt frustrated when Nationwide put him through further security checks, when he had 
already passed them. This typically happened when he was passed to another department 
and the handover wasnt completed properly. This meant that Mr D had to waste time when 
he had to complete the checks again. He said he also had to pay additional phone costs. 
My role is to decide if Mr D was treated fairly and reasonably. It is a fact of life that in todays 
world, customers have to contact financial businesses a lot by phone. And if that process 
goes wrong or is slow, it can be frustrating. No one wants to wait on the phone for a long 
time. And its annoying if you are asked the same security questions that youve already 
answered. I completely appreciate that. But also, businesses must have security measures 
in place to protect customers from fraud. And these must be balanced against being able to 
give good customer service. 
Mr D had to go through a second security check on some occasions. Here, where security 
questions were asked again, it wasnt done with a view to cause any significant difficulties. 
But for the business to satisfy itself it was speaking with its customer. I dont think that was 
wrong or unreasonable given the overall reasons for it. I know that the second verifications 
happened on a number of occasions and that Mr D feels that each one should be dealt with 
separately. But Nationwide have explained what happened. They admit that they made 
some errors and have apologised and paid him compensation of £75. Overall and looking at 
all the circumstances, I think they have dealt with Mr Ds complaints fairly and reasonably. 
So, I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman