DRN-1573062
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited didnt pay them the amount it 
shouldve done on maturity of their endowment polices.
What happened
Mr G had one endowment policy in his name and a second endowment policy held jointly 
with Mrs G. Both policies had a maturity date in June 2019. Phoenix (previously Pearl) sent 
annual policy updates which showed the guaranteed minimum payment on maturity, the 
target amount and illustrations showing what each policy might achieve at maturity based on 
three different performance rates  which rates are based on what the regulator sets out.
The illustrations in the annual policy updates sent to Mr and Mrs G in September 2018 for 
the two policies were based on performance rates of 0%, 3% and 6%. The 0% figure for Mr 
Gs policy indicated he could expect to get £36,700 on maturity and the 0% figure for the 
joint policy showed a figure of £23,200.
On maturity the policies didnt actually achieve a maturity value based on the lowest of the 
performance figures of 0%. Mr G received £35,830 for the policy in his name - £870 less 
than the figure in the illustration based on a 0% return. And he and Mrs G received £21,876 
for the joint policy - £1,324 lower.
Because the policies hadnt achieved the figures shown in the illustrations based on the 
lowest projected return of zero Mr and Mrs G questioned the amount they had received.
In response to their complaint Phoenix explained the system generated letters that had been 
sent in 2018 had the wrong projected values. It apologised and offered £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by this and the delay in dealing with the complaint.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that whilst Phoenix had provided the wrong information about what the policies could 
achieve, the values were an illustration and not guaranteed. He thought  the amount Phoenix 
had offered for the trouble and upset caused was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the adjudicator. They said they accepted that the investment 
return figures werent guaranteed, and that is why they assumed a return based on the 
lowest of the rates in the illustration of 0%. They said that Phoenix provided erroneous data 
to them as policyholders and they have suffered a loss accordingly. 
Mr and Mrs G said that giving incorrect projection data cant be ignored simply because 
other data provided was right. And that they didnt know the information was wrong until they 
received the maturity proceeds, at which point it was too late to adjust their planning. They 
said Phoenixs offer of £250 left them with a shortfall and had never been paid anyway. 
The adjudicator clarified with Phoenix that the £250 had been paid into Mr Gs bank account 
 which Mr and Mrs G confirmed. But he didnt change his opinion about the complaint. Mr and Mrs G repeated that whilst £250 had been paid for the trouble and upset caused this 
was a nominal sum as against the shortfall of over £2,000 they had suffered.
As Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the adjudicator the matter has been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G understandably questioned the maturity values of the two polices given they 
had been given projected values around nine months earlier that showed that even if the 
polices achieved a zero return they would receive more than they actually did eventually get 
back.
I understand their disappointment, as they wouldve had no reason to think they wouldnt get 
back the lowest figure shown in the illustrations for the two policies given this didnt require 
the polices to achieve any return. 
But Phoenix has explained that this was a system error and that the figures in the 2018 
illustrations showing the potential returns based on three different rates were wrong. It has 
said it has checked this with its actuaries and the amounts paid out on maturity are the right 
amounts. 
I have no reason to think that Phoenix hasnt checked the figures with its actuaries and I 
accept what it has said about this. I also have no evidence to show, or reason to think, that 
its actuaries are wrong. In the circumstances I think it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs 
G have received what they were entitled to on maturity of the two policies.
I note what Mr and Mrs G have said about having suffered a loss because they have not 
received what the 2018 illustrations projected. But they were never entitled to the figures 
shown in the illustrations, as those figures were wrong. They have referred to having 
suffered a loss, but they have received what they were entitled to and havent suffered any 
actual loss.
I have considered what they have said about having made plans based on the figures in the 
illustrations. I acknowledge they may have considered what they were going to do with the 
money from the policies But they have provided no evidence of plans they made or that they 
have incurred any expense because they thought they would be getting more than they did 
receive.
If they had plans for the money overall Im not satisfied they wouldve taken any action they 
would not otherwise have taken if the 2018 illustrations had provided the right information. 
Im mindful that the difference between what they got back and what they say they assumed 
they might get based on a 0% return was only £870 for Mr Gs policy and £1,324 for the joint 
policy.
In the circumstances I think all that they are entitled to is compensation for Phoenix having 
raised their expectations as to what they might receive. I dont think the amount Phoenix has 
paid for this of £250 is unreasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman