DRN-3877131
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage portfolio Mrs J and Mr R hold with 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. They complain of accounting errors, and information gaps, on their 
mortgages, in particular those which are operated on a legacy computer system. The 
mortgages are in joint names and both borrowers have brought the complaint; all of our 
dealings however, have been with Mr R.
What happened
The events leading up to, and arising out of, the complaint are complex and the evidence 
in the case is immensely detailed, running to nearly 2,000 pages of documents. Ive read 
everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. 
In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has 
been presented. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service 
we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is 
consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion 
peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information that 
might result in Mrs J and Mr R being identified. Instead Ill give a summary in my own 
words (and rounding the figures where relevant) and then focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
The complaint started in 2020, after Mrs J and Mr R found what they thought were errors 
and miscalculations on the statements for several of their mortgages. After a protracted 
and frustrating (for them) time, Barclays issued a final response in February 2019, 
accepting it had made errors, due to the way overpayments were applied on its system. It 
offered an apology, details of the amendments it had made to put things right, and 
compensation for Mrs J and Mr Rs time and trouble. Unfortunately, by then, they had 
received their latest annual statements, and found further errors in the most recent period. 
Mrs J and Mr R referred their complaint to us; they told us they had sold two of the 
properties and repaid the mortgages even though the balances were still wrong (too high). 
Those sales and redemptions had been held up when their solicitor hadnt been able to get 
responses from Barclays in a timely fashion. This was added to the complaint, along with 
problems getting hold of interest certificates from the bank for tax purposes, and then 
subsequently delays in registering the redemptions at HM Land Registry. It seems also 
that Barclays interactive voice recognition system didnt recognise the passcodes Mrs J 
and Mr R use for the seven legacy accounts.
Barclays issued follow-up final responses in June and July 2021 respectively; The former 
refunded interest incurred due to the redemption delay and offer £100 compensation. The 
latter offered a further £250 compensation and promised to look into the latest set of 
accounting errors on the 2020 statements.  Also, in July 2021, Barclays wrote to say it was 
changing the way it applied overpayments to its mortgage accounts.
In September 2021, Barclays issued a final response to deal with the problems with the 
2020 statements; it said it was attaching new calculations and offered £400 compensation. 
Mr R told us the calculations were missing; he also said that they were still experiencing 
problems trying to make overpayments even after Barclays had told them everything had 
been fixed. In October 2021, at our suggestion, Barclays agreed to escalate Mrs J and 
Mr Rs situation to senior management. 
Meanwhile, Mr R told us his credit score was going down after Barclays recorded missed 
payments for October and November 2021, and asked that we order Barclays to pay 
redress for loss of opportunity. In November 2021, Barclays started sending out arrears 
letters; Mrs J and Mr R said Barclays should be made to waive all the mortgages balances 
in their entirety. We asked Barclays to hold arrears recovery activity whilst we looked at the 
complaint. 
In December 2021, Mr R told us he was turned down for a credit card due to adverse 
information on his credit file. This was added to the complaint, as was the absence of a 
current phone number for BTL mortgages from an arrears letter and a failure to return a 
phone call from Mrs J and Mr R. Our investigator asked Mr R for additional information to 
help assess his claim for lost opportunity, which he had assessed at a little over £20,000 at 
this point. Mr R also mentioned that hed been turned down for re-mortgages onto better 
rates on three BTLs that were with a different lender. 
Towards the end of December 2021, Mr R sent us evidence indicating that the credit file 
reporting was back up to date.  However the following month, he sent us a screenshot of 
an alert saying there were missed payment on the Barclays mortgages again. Also, in 
January 2022, we finally received Barclays response to our investigators enquiries. Ill 
summarise the main points below:
When a borrower overpays, the legacy system applied the money to the contractual 
payment first and then the rest went to an overpayment balance. The overpayment 
balance reduced the debt but provided no interest benefit, resulting in detriment to the 
borrower;
Barclays had introduced a new improved system in September 2021 and a remediation 
team was working through all affected borrowers account (so, not just Mrs J and 
Mr Rs) to put things right, going back to the early 2000s. The regulator of financial 
businesses, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was aware of the remediation 
programme and was being updated periodically;
Borrowers wishing to overpay should either use a direct debit for the normal payment 
and a separate arrangement for overpayments, or alternatively separate standing 
orders for the normal payment and overpayment respectively. Otherwise there was a 
risk of a single payment (if it were for more than three times the normal payment) being 
treated as a part redemption, and the normal payment being reported as missed.
Barclays said it wasnt appropriate to appoint a single point of contact to manage Mrs J 
and Mr Rs mortgages and said that if they repaid the mortgages by re-mortgaging to 
different lenders, theyd be expected to pay any early repayment charges (ERCs) due 
under the account terms.
In March 2022, Barclays began sending out letters showing the results if the remediation exercise; it sent a separate one for each affected account, and Mr R repeated a long-held 
frustration, first expressed at the outset, at having to reconciled each one with only an 
account number to refer to, rather than the address of the relevant mortgaged property, in 
each case. 
In August 2022, Barclays issued another final response letter, the aim of which was to try 
and summarise and wrap up all of its previous individual responses into a single 
document. But it also said it couldnt rule out the possibility of problems in the future.
In September 2022, our investigator issued his view on the core issues of the complaint as 
it first reached us; these were:
interest calculations on the statements for 2019 and 2020;
statements not including the property address;
the charging of a mortgage exit fee on one of the redeemed mortgages;
delay in issuing a redemption statement;
delay in registering the discharge at HM Land Registry after redemption;
delay in issuing tax statements; and
the banks phone system not recognising six-digit account numbers.
The other elements of Mrs J and Mr Rs complaint were separated off into a second 
complaint.
On the bullet points listed above, the investigator concluded that, for the most part, 
Barclays had taken reasonable steps to remedy its mistakes, offering a little under £1,600 
compensation in total. The exception was that when Mrs J and Mr Rs previous direct 
contact had left the bank, it hadnt arranged a successor; the investigator recommended 
Barclays do so now, to resolve the complaint. 
Mrs J and Mr R asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. On the finding about 
the redemption statement delay, they reiterated it was about two redeemed accounts, not 
just one. The investigator acknowledged this, but said the compensation Barclays had 
offered for the issue (£100 out of nearly £1,600 in all) was enough for both.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview 
and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. A great deal of what Mrs J and Mr R have said in their submissions is about 
Barclays internal systems and processes, but theyre regulatory matters that fall outside my 
remit. 
Also, we dont simply pick up and run with individual issues as they occur; if that were the 
case, complaints would in effect become open-ended moving targets and risk never being 
brought to a conclusion. Some of the matters Mrs J and Mr R are still expressing concerns 
about here are already being examined in a separate complaint. Meanwhile, events such as new incidences of missed payments being reported in on credit file in late 2022 would have 
to be referred to Barclays to address first, before we can be involved in them. 
I appreciate that might not be what they wish to hear, and I can see how their frustration has 
only grown over time as new problems have arisen, but its how our rules require us to 
operate. 
In order that theres no ambiguity, my decision here deals solely with the same specific 
issues as the investigators view from September 2022, which are:
interest calculations on the statements for 2019 and 2020;
statements not including the property address;
the charging of a mortgage exit fee on one of the redeemed mortgages;
delay in issuing a redemption statement;
delay in registering the discharge at HM Land Registry after redemption;
delay in issuing tax statements; and
the banks phone system not recognising six-digit account numbers.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions on what a fair settlement of this long running dispute should 
be are broadly the same as the investigators. That is, Barclays should furnish Mrs J and 
Mr R with a direct contact who can help them manage their accounts going forward. But the 
cumulative compensation it has either paid or offered for the things that have gone wrong 
historically is fair across the piece. However, I will add some further comment, to provide 
some context.
Having no regulatory power means I cant tell Barclays to add the addresses of mortgaged 
properties to its BTL mortgage statements. I appreciate Mrs J and Mr R find it irksome only 
account numbers to cross-reference when reconciling their affairs, but its beyond my remit 
to order the information they would like to see be added to the statements. Likewise, its not 
within my remit to tell the bank to change its telephone system to recognise the six-digit 
account numbers used on its legacy system.
Mrs J and Mr R feel the compensation for time, trouble and upset regarding the problem with 
redemption statements doesnt cover the time their solicitor spent trying to get the 
information in order to redeem the mortgages. My role is to assess whether, and if so how 
much, compensation is due Mrs J and Mr R, as they are the complainants here. I cant 
award compensation to their solicitor for being inconvenienced, and Ive not seen evidence 
of the solicitor having billed them extra to reflect additional time spent on this issue. 
This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, 
especially in the moment. But I have to assess things objectively. When I do that, I find the 
cumulative compensation from Barclays for the issues Ive covered here to be fair in all the 
circumstances. As we have explained previously, we dont generally compensate peoples 
time by reference to a professional hourly rate.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from its submissions the intensity with which Mr R has brought the 
complaint on behalf of himself and Mrs J. He sees error or wrong-doing in almost everything 
the bank has done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. Its also natural to 
emphasise individual statements or comments that appear to support a particular viewpoint, 
whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the opposite viewpoint. Be 
that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at things 
objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae and focussing on the broader 
picture. 
Im aware this decision only covers part of their wider dissatisfaction with Barclays, but it 
wouldnt be right for me to pre-empt the outcome of the other complaint they already have 
with us, or indeed any other complaint theyve yet to formalise. Lastly, however much I 
understand theyd like it, no resolution from this service for what they have complained about 
up to now can future proof Mrs J and Mr R against what may or may not happen going 
forward. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, in that I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to: 
provide Mrs J and Mr R a nominated direct point of contact to help them manage their 
accounts; and 
pay any portion of the compensation that has been offered for the issues covered in this 
decision but not yet paid.
I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman