DRN-2144352
The complaint
Mr H says Gain Credit LLC  trading as Lending Stream  irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about nine instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr H between 
March and November 2019. Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 06/03/2019 31/07/2019 6 £250.00
2 08/07/2019 31/10/2019 6 £350.00
3 11/07/2019 31/07/2019 6 £100.00
4 11/08/2019 outstanding 6 £200.00
5 16/08/2019 outstanding 6 £250.00
6 14/09/2019 outstanding 6 £80.00
7 21/09/2019 outstanding 6 £60.00
8 12/10/2019 outstanding 6 £190.00
9 30/11/2019 outstanding 6 £180.00
At the time of writing this decision, loans 4 to 9 are outstanding. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought the loans from loan 6 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because the overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing indicated he was 
reliant on these loans and the borrowing was becoming unsustainable. Lending Stream 
didnt respond to the assessment. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint about loans 1 to 5. Mr H hasnt provided any 
further evidence or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any further findings 
on these loans because they no longer appear to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr H, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Lending Stream should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Hs case, like the adjudicator, I think that this point was 
reached by loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Lending Stream ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to repay 
his loans sustainably. Mr H had taken out six loans in six months. So, it should have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Hs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.Mr Hs first loan was for £250 and loan 6 was for £80. Although the amount borrowed 
for loan 6 was a much smaller amount, I note that loans 2, 4 and 5 were still running 
at this point so the combined repayment for all these loans was significantly more 
than the repayment for just loan 1. So, at this point Lending stream ought to have 
known that it was unlikely Mr H was borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but more to meet an ongoing need. Especially as the other loans were still 
running. 
From loan 6 onwards Mr H was provided with a new loan within weeks of taking out a 
previous one. 
Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Lending Stream. Loan 9 
was taken out eight months after Mr Hs first. Mr H had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect; service a debt to Lending Stream over an extended period.
I think that Mr H lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing from loan 
6 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about loans 6 to 9. 
Putting things right
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts Lending Stream should buy these back if 
Lending Stream is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream cant 
buy the debts back, then Lending Stream should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below.
A) Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr H having made 
overpayments then Lending Stream should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B) However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr H. Lending Stream shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal Lending Stream has already written-off.
C) The overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing for loans 6 to 9 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Lending Stream should remove these loans entirely from Mr Hs 
credit file. Lending Stream does not have to remove any outstanding loans from Mr Hs 
credit file until these have been repaid, but Lending Stream should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. Gain Credit LLC should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman