DRN-1695833
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt treated them fairly now the term 
of their interest only mortgage has ended. They say Barclays hasnt been willing to engage 
with them or agree proposals for repayment; it has contacted them directly when instructed 
not to; and has added legal fees to their mortgage balance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out an interest only mortgage in 2007, borrowing £263,000 over a term of 
eight years. They also had an associated mortgage current account (MCA).
By the time the term ended in 2015, they had reduced the balance on the main mortgage, 
though theyd borrowed on the MCA. 
When the mortgage ended, Mr and Mrs L were unable to repay the rest of the capital at 
once. They continued to make overpayments and occasional lump sum payments, so that by 
2009 the mortgage balance was down to £175,000, with around £7,000 on the MCA.
Since 2015, Mr and Mrs L have been in discussion with Barclays about the repayment of the 
mortgage. They said that they had applied for planning permission for housing development 
on part of their land. Once that was granted they would be able to sell the land and repay the 
mortgage. Unfortunately planning permission was refused twice, though it seems its still 
under further consideration by the local authority. 
More recently, Mr and Mrs Ls son has proposed that the term be extended on interest only 
terms for at least ten years, with continuing overpayments. He said hes taken over the 
family business and put in place improvements  with increased profits being used to pay 
lump sums to reduce the balance still further.
Mr and Mrs L also say that Mr L is in poor health  which could be made much worse by 
stress or upheaval. It wouldnt be right to require him to move house. As both their lives are 
insured for more than the mortgage balance, and the loan to value is now less than 25%, 
theres no risk that Barclays wont get its capital back, and it can continue to earn interest in 
the meantime.
Mr and Mrs L complained to us. They said they had complained before, in 2016, and our 
adjudicator had said that they and Barclays needed to work together to find a solution  but 
while they had made proposals Barclays had refused them all and made none of its own. 
They said they had instructed Barclays to only communicate via their solicitor to reduce the 
stress on Mr L  but it had called them anyway, and the call had been very upsetting. They 
said Barclays had sent them another customers personal data. And it had added £1,800 in 
legal fees to the mortgage balance.
Barclays accepted that it shouldnt have called Mr and Mrs L and the call hadnt gone well. 
And it had inadvertently quoted another customers account number on a letter  and used 
that customers name in a call. It offered £225 compensation for that. But it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong in the way it had managed Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage. It said that it was 
now five years since the term had ended, it had shown forbearance, but the balance now 
needed to be repaid.
Our investigator looked at the impact on Mr and Mrs L of the communication from Barclays. 
Taking into account Mr Ls health in particular, he thought the compensation should be 
increased to £750. But he didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly in requiring the mortgage 
to be repaid. 
Barclays agreed to offer £750 compensation. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator, 
and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Ls ill-health, and more recently Mr and Mrs Ls sons illness. Im sure 
its been a difficult time for the whole family.
In cases like this, the starting point is always that theres a mortgage debt, and it does need 
to be repaid. When they took their mortgage out in 2007, Mr and Mrs L agreed to repay it in 
2015  five years ago. Its not unreasonable for Barclays to expect Mr and Mrs L to repay 
their mortgage. And while it does continue to receive the interest, it hasnt received the 
capital back that it budgeted for  and given how mortgages are funded, the longer the 
capital remains outstanding, the greater the cost to Barclays.
The difficulty in this case is that, so far, Mr and Mrs L havent been able to do that. Theyve 
made some overpayments to reduce the capital, but theres still around £175,000 
outstanding.
I dont think its reasonable to ask Barclays to extend the term for ten years or more, as 
Mr and Mrs Ls son has suggested. Mr L is 75 and in poor health. Their son has taken over 
the family business, but he has himself been very unwell in the last year. If the term is 
extended for a long period, Mr and Mrs Ls son says that the monthly payments, as well as 
periodic lump sums, will be met from the business. 
But a term extension will tie Mr and Mrs L into making those payments for a long time  into 
Mr Ls eighties and given his health issues and more recently those of his son Im not 
persuaded tying them into the mortgage for that length of time would be in their best 
interests. Theres a very real risk that they wouldnt be able to keep up with the mortgage, or 
at least not make the overpayments they plan to  and then would be left in a worse position 
than theyre in now, having paid more interest in the meantime. And while they have equity 
in the property, and the protection of life insurance, neither of those assist with paying the 
monthly payments. 
Since 2015, there have been a series of discussions between Mr and Mrs L and Barclays, 
sometimes direct and sometimes via their solicitor. At various times, Mr and Mrs L have 
proposed different ways of repaying the mortgage, though none have  to date  come off. 
From 2015 onwards, they have said that they intend to sell some of their land for housing, 
subject to planning permission. Permission has been refused twice, though the local 
authority is now considering including it in their wider development plan. Mr and Mrs L say 
they cant be held responsible, or fairly penalised, for the local authoritys delays.However, theres no clear timescale for a decision, nor any guarantee that when a decision 
comes it will be in Mr and Mrs Ls favour. It hasnt been in the past.
Barclays did at first allow Mr and Mrs L some time to try and repay the mortgage this way. 
For the first couple of years after the term ended, it took no action while they tried to 
progress it. I think that was reasonable. But as time dragged on, and following the initial 
refusals, I can understand why Barclays was no longer prepared to accept this as a viable 
repayment method  because of the uncertainties with both the timescale and the outcome.
By 2017, Mr and Mrs L were talking to Barclays about selling the property, though it seems it 
was never placed on the market and Mr and Mrs L have now decided against that course. 
Instead, their son returned to take a more active role in the family business and  he says  
increase its income and profits, allowing higher overpayments. Though given his recent 
health issues, its not clear to what extent that will continue.
So if the planning application is too uncertain, Mr and Mrs L arent prepared to sell the 
property, and a longer term extension isnt an appropriate way forward, an alternative will 
need to be found. 
I dont agree that Barclays has acted unfairly in its overall decisions in this case, or outside 
the spirit of what the previous adjudicator recommended. She said both parties should work 
together to find a way to repay the mortgage. But ultimately its for Mr and Mrs L to either 
repay it or find an alternative thats acceptable to Barclays. Barclays has given consideration 
to the various proposals Mr and Mrs L has made. Ive explained why I dont think a lengthy 
term extension is in Mr and Mrs Ls best interests. And its given Mr and Mrs L a reasonable 
time to resolve the planning issue, or explore other ways of repaying. Its unfortunate things 
havent gone to plan but thats not Barclays fault, and I think its been fair in the amount of 
forbearance it has shown.
Barclays has, more recently, referred the mortgage to its solicitors to take repossession 
action. And while thats a distressing prospect for Mr and Mrs L, it is the last resort open to 
Barclays if the mortgage cant be repaid in some other way. As several years have passed 
since the end of the term, I dont think that was an unreasonable step for Barclays to take  
and the terms and conditions of the mortgage allow it to add legal costs to the mortgage 
balance. 
Mr and Mrs L might want to seek independent financial advice as there are products 
available in the market that might be worth exploring, such as lifetime mortgages and 
retirement interest only mortgages. It doesnt seem as if theyve done that so far, so its 
something they should consider now.
Because of the pandemic, lenders are not currently permitted to take legal action for 
repossession, and wont be until February 2021 at the earliest. 
Also as a result of the pandemic, the regulator has said that collection of interest only 
mortgage capital balances can be deferred to October 2021. While that guidance only 
applies to mortgages that have matured since lockdown, it does show a recognition that its 
more difficult for borrowers to find a way to repay than before  and that does include Mr and 
Mrs L.
I do think Barclays has acted fairly to date, in allowing several years beyond the end of the 
term for Mr and Mrs L to find a way to repay. I dont therefore uphold this complaint.
But that doesnt mean it would be fair for Barclays to move to repossession as soon as this 
complaint has ended. It has a continuing duty to treat Mr and Mrs L fairly  and it needs to bear in mind the wider changes, including the impact of the pandemic. 
Mr and Mrs L have some time  until February at least  to get independent financial advice 
to look at all the options. 
And if they are able to find a means of repaying  such as re-mortgaging or sale  I would 
expect Barclays to allow a reasonable time for that to be achieved before taking further 
action  bearing in mind Mr Ls vulnerability in particular, as well as the wider environment.
Putting things right
Barclays was aware that Mr L in particular was vulnerable, and Mr and Mrs L wanted all 
discussions to go through solicitors  but it phoned them anyway, and that call didnt go well. 
Its offered to pay £750 compensation, which I think is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision 
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs L £750 compensation..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman