DRN-4306333
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the service provided by Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) when 
he visited his local branch to ask for help with his online banking.
What happened
Mr J visited his local branch of Halifax to get some help with his online banking. He said the 
staff he approached were rude and gave him the impression they didnt want to help. Mr J 
said he was left feeling upset, embarrassed and scared to return. 
Halifax apologised for the service Mr J had received. It said its staff should have paid more 
attention to him when he was explaining his online banking issues and tried to resolve the 
problems in the branch. It said it should have done more to help him and it paid Mr J £70 by 
way of saying sorry for the frustration caused. Mr J wasnt happy and brought his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator thought Halifax could have done more to provide a better customer service 
in branch and noted that this was the third time Mr J had complained about the service hed 
received. She thought Halifax should pay Mr J a total of £150 for the impact caused. So, she 
asked Halifax to pay Mr J a further £80.
Halifax agreed with the investigators view. But Mr J wasnt happy and so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J says he went into his local branch of Halifax to ask for help to set up his online banking 
app. He said hed been trying to use it all day on Sunday but was still having problems so 
went into the branch the next day to ask for help. Mr J said he didnt like the attitude of some 
of the staff he asked for help  he said they didnt stop what they were doing to help him and 
thought the way they looked at him was rude. One member of staff did help him with his 
online banking app but he said he felt upset and anxious about the way hed been treated 
and was now afraid of going into the branch again.
Halifax investigated the incident and, without clear evidence of what had happened, gave 
Mr J the benefit of doubt, concluding that he probably had received poor service. It said it 
had checked with Mr J that he now had access to online banking and he had confirmed this. 
It also said that it had sent feedback to the branch to make it aware of Mr Js concerns.
Our investigator noted that there was some history to Mr Js complaint. He had made 
previous complaints about the service hed received in branch and he said the branch 
manager had previously called him to reassure him it wouldnt happen again. So, it was all 
the more upsetting for Mr J when it did happen again.
Our investigator thought Halifax needed to do more to resolve Mr Js complaint as she 
thought a total of £150 was more appropriate compensation for the impact caused by 
Halifaxs poor service. And I too think thats a fair and reasonable way of putting things right. 
I know Mr J feels strongly about this so let me explain why.
When things have gone wrong, I would expect a business like Halifax to take action to put 
things right. That might include compensation but I think it should also apologise and take 
action to learn from the mistakes that have been made. And Im satisfied that Halifax has 
done that here. Halifax accepted and apologised for the poor service it had provided. It 
checked with Mr J that he had received the help he was after to resolve the problems with 
his online banking app. And it provided feedback to the branch so it was aware of the issues 
Mr J had raised and it could try to avoid the same situation happening again. 
Halifax also paid Mr J £70 to recognise the poor service hed received. Mr J thought this was 
an insult, saying he would have given Halifax three times that amount to have avoided it 
happening. I can understand the point Mr J is making but I think its right that Halifax 
recognise the impact its poor service has had on its customers and giving them some level 
of compensation is one way of doing that. 
This wasnt the first time Mr J had received poor service from the branch and I can 
understand how upsetting it must have been to have experienced it again, particularly as 
hed been reassured it wouldnt be repeated. So, I think its fair to ask Halifax to increase its 
offer of £70 and, on balance, I think a total award of £150 is an appropriate level of 
compensation. Taken together with the apology and the other action Halifax has taken to 
avoid the same situation happening again, I think that provides a fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mr Js complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
Halifax) should pay Mr J a further £80 (in addition to the £70 its already paid) for the trouble 
and upset caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman