DRN-3413204
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D and Mr D have been represented in making this complaint by a family member. For 
the sake of clarity and brevity, Ill refer to information and evidence provided by Mrs D and 
Mr D, even where that has in fact been provided by the representative.
Mrs D and Mr D have a home insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. They made a claim in 
early 2021 after an escape of water in their kitchen.
Aviva reasonably quickly sent out surveyors to assess the damage and accepted the claim. 
There appeared to have been a leak from a pipe connecting to the washing machine in the 
kitchen.
The claim is on-going. The background is well known to both parties, so I wont go into detail 
here. But in short, Mrs D and Mr D werent happy with the way Aviva proposed to settle the 
claim.
In particular, they want a carpet in their kitchen replaced, rather than cleaned and restored. 
They say this was offered by Aviva, but the offer was later withdrawn. 
They also want their fitted kitchen replaced entirely, rather than the repairs Aviva have 
proposed. They say a contractor appointed by Aviva damaged a marble floor tile in the 
kitchen. And they were unhappy they had to sit outside their home in the garden whilst 
painting work was being carried out.
Mrs D and Mr D made a complaint to Aviva about those issues. Aviva offered a £40 
disturbance allowance for the inconvenience Mrs D and Mr D suffered when the painting 
was being carried out. And they offered £50 compensation for any false expectations around 
the replacement of the carpet.
But Aviva maintained their position on the replacement of the carpet and the kitchen. They 
said there was no evidence to suggest the carpet and/or kitchen needed replacing. And they 
said Mrs D and Mr D had refused to allow any further inspection  by specialists and/or an 
independent loss adjustor  to re-assess the damage.
Mrs D and Mr D werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think Aviva needed to do anything more to put things 
right for Mrs D and Mr D.
Mrs D and Mr D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since they made their initial complaint to us, Mrs D and Mr D have raised a number of 
additional issues, in particular about how Aviva have responded to a claim for damage 
caused by a leak in their bathroom.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules which govern how our service operates (the 
dispute resolution or DISP rules) say that we cant consider a complaint unless the business 
has already had a chance to look into it - and possibly resolve it.
Mrs D and Mr D havent made a formal complaint to Aviva about the bathroom claim, so I 
cant consider those issues in this decision. Weve explained to Mrs D and Mr D that if they 
want to make a separate complaint to Aviva, theyd be entitled to do so. And if theyre still 
unhappy after Avivas response, they can bring the complaint to us.
Ill deal with the issues raised in Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint to Aviva in turn.
The carpet
Theres no evidence to support the idea that Mrs D and Mr D were at any point told their 
carpet would be replaced. Aviva have offered £50 to Mrs D and Mr D in case their 
expectations were unfairly raised by something their agent(s) might have said. 
Im not going to interfere in that. If Aviva have paid the £50 to Mrs D and Mr D  or, if not, 
they are still willing to do so  then thats for Aviva to decide. I cant see any evidence at all 
to suggest Mrs D and Mr D were knowingly or otherwise misled. And I think its unlikely any 
Aviva agent gave that impression, given that the damage to the carpet was minor and 
localised  and, on the face it, relatively easily cleaned and/or repaired.
Aviva have offered to send another expert to assess the damage to the carpet. And theyve 
also offered to send an independent loss adjustor to take a look. 
The current evidence  from the original expert Aviva sent  is that the carpet can be 
cleaned / restored. Avivas duty to Mrs D and Mr D under their insurance contract is to put 
them back in the position they were in before the escape of water. 
The expert evidence suggests that can be done by cleaning and/or restoration. The policy 
explicitly says that Aviva may respond to a claim by attempting repairs or restoration of a 
damaged article.
It's not unreasonable for Aviva to refuse to pay for the replacement of Mrs D and Mr Ds 
carpet, in those circumstances. And they have offered to re-assess the damage by sending 
either an expert or an independent loss adjustor to inspect the damage. 
Given that Mrs D and Mr D have refused to allow that re-assessment, its not unfair or 
unreasonable for Aviva to reject the claim for replacement of the carpet.
The kitchen
Mrs D and Mr D have asked Aviva to replace their entire kitchen  and sent them a quote for 
the work amounting to well over £20,000. 
The surveyor sent by Aviva to assess the damage suggested that repairs could effectively 
be carried out, without the need to replace the kitchen. And Aviva carried out works to repair 
the leak. Its very difficult, on the face of it, to see how an escape of water from a pipe which sits at or 
close to ground level could have caused some of the damage which Mrs D and Mr D claim 
renders their kitchen beyond repair.
However, Aviva have again offered to send an expert to inspect the kitchen units and/or an 
independent loss assessor to look again at the damage. At present, their expert says the 
kitchen does not need to be replaced wholesale.
Again, Mrs D and Mr D have refused that offer. That being the case, I think Aviva have done 
everything that could reasonably be expected of them to resolve the issues between them 
and Mrs D and Mr D. 
Its not unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to decline to replace the kitchen based on the expert 
evidence they currently have. And given Mrs D and Mr Ds refusal to allow them to send 
another expert to inspect the damage, theres nothing more they can reasonably be 
expected to do. 
The marble tile
I understand the tile has now been repaired and that this is no longer an issue. Theres 
nothing more Aviva need to do here.
The inconvenience caused by the painting 
Mrs D and Mr D say that they couldnt be inside whilst the painting work was carried out. And 
so, they sat in their garden for an extended period of time. 
I dont doubt what Mrs D and Mr D tell us. But I cant see anything on file to suggest they told 
Aviva in advance that they couldnt be indoors when the painting took place. And so, Aviva 
didnt have any opportunity to make appropriate arrangements for the period in question.
Aviva offered Mrs D and Mr D £40 by way of a disturbance allowance for the day and a half 
whilst the painting work was carried out. 
Again, Im not going to interfere with that. If Aviva have already paid that money to Mrs D 
and Mr D  or theyre willing to do so now  thats a matter for them. But given the 
circumstances, Im not going to require Aviva to make that payment if they havent already 
done so.
Summary
Theres no evidence to suggest Aviva treated Mrs D and Mr D unfairly or unreasonably in the 
way theyve handled this claim.
Theyve properly taken into account the opinions of the experts whove assessed the 
damage at the property. And theyve offered to send further experts to re-assess the 
damage. 
Its not reasonable for Mrs D and Mr D to expect that if they refuse further assessment(s) of 
the damage to their property, Aviva will simply give them the full replacements  of the 
carpet and the kitchen  that they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs D and Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman