DRN-3626976
Complaint
Mr N has complained about loans Lendable Ltd (Lendable) provided to him. He says his 
income exceeded his expenditure and he shouldnt have been provided with these loans.
Background
Lendable provided Mr N with a first loan for £1,200.00 in October 2020. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 11 monthly instalments of £118.61 and a final instalment of £104.28. 
In July 2021, Mr N was provided with a second loan for £2,000.00. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 11 monthly instalments of £191.38 and a final instalment of £183.41.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr N and Lendable had told us. And she thought that 
Lendable hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr N unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mr Ns complaint be upheld. 
Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ns complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Lendable needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr N 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable provided Mr N with loans for £1,200.00 and £2,000.00 in October 2020 and July 
2021. These loans were due to be repaid in 12 instalments of just under £120 and just over 
£190 respectively. Lendable says it agreed to Mr Ns applications after he provided details of 
his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr N 
could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, 
Mr N has said he was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr N and Lendable have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Lendable has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. Lendable searches appear to show that Mr N had existing credit but that his 
commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit 
searches, Mr Ns debt total at the time of the respective applications were reasonable in 
comparison to his income and they appeared to be relatively well managed. 
Ive also kept in mind that loan two was taken relatively soon. But it was taken towards the 
end of the term of loan 1. And it was for a relatively low amount taking into account Mr Ns 
monthly salary. So it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr N might have been taking loan 2 
because of the effect loan 1 left on his finances. And there isnt anything else obvious in 
either of these applications which lead me to think that further checks would have been 
reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr Ns actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Lendable obtained. I know Mr N says he was 
struggling with problem gambling and he wouldnt have taken these loans if it wasnt for his 
gambling difficulties. Equally, I accept that if Lendable had gone into the depth of checks    
Mr N appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements it may have 
reached a different answer. 
But the key here isnt whether Mr N was actually gambling its whether Lendable ought 
reasonably to have known this. And I dont think that this is the case here. Lendable was 
providing loans for small sums  especially when compared to Mr Ns income. Given the 
information obtained suggested the loans were affordable and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I simply dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
extended into the level of checks Mr N is suggesting.
As this is the case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr N - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Ns indebtedness, at least to it, didnt appear to be increasing 
unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Lendable treated Mr N unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr N  especially as he refers to what he considers to be a similar 
complaint having been upheld by us. But each case is considered on its own merits. I hope 
that Mr N will understand the reasons for my final decision in this particular case and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman