DRN-3134437
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W made a claim on their home insurance with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
following damage caused by a water leak. Theyre unhappy that the contractors appointed 
didnt complete the work to the agreed schedule. The contractors were acting as agents of 
Aviva, so the complaint is against Aviva.
What happened
There was an escape of water in Mrs and Mr Ws kitchen, which caused damage including to 
the laminate flooring. The same flooring ran from the kitchen into the adjoining lounge 
without a break. Aviva agreed to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the flooring in the lounge. 
Mrs and Mr W agreed to pay the other 50%.
The contractors appointed by Aviva agreed a schedule of works with Mrs and Mr W. In the 
event, the contractors didnt carry out all the work on the schedule, saying it wasnt actually 
all necessary. Mrs and Mr W were billed for a reduced amount for their 50% contribution.
Mrs and Mr W werent happy that not all the work on the schedule had been done, and 
complained to Aviva. Aviva said that the wrong schedule had been sent to Mrs and Mr W 
and some of the work on the schedule they had been sent wasnt required.
Mrs and Mr W werent happy with Avivas response and complained to this service. Mrs and 
Mr W also said that that theres some damage in the kitchen which was caused by the leak 
and hasnt been repaired, a piece of the replaced skirting has broken off and theres a gap in 
the new flooring.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Aviva had agreed to pay 50% of 
the cost of the work carried out in the lounge as a goodwill gesture, as the actual damage 
was only in the kitchen. The investigator said Aviva had dealt with the claim and the repairs 
covered by the policy as it should have done. She said Aviva couldnt be held responsible for 
any works outside of what the policy covered. Our investigator looked at photos taken by the 
assessor and by Mrs and Mr W, but said she couldnt say the damage had been caused by 
Avivas contractor.
Mrs and Mr W werent happy with the investigators response, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. Mrs and Mr W dont want to have to pay their outstanding 50% contribution 
towards the work in the lounge. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mrs and Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
On 8 October 2021 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I intend to uphold Mrs and Mr Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs and Mr Ws home insurance documents from Aviva. Their policy 
covered them for damage caused by escaping water. The policy says the following condition 
applies to the buildings and accidental damage to buildings sections of the policy 
3. Pairs, Sets and Suites
We will not pay for the cost of replacing any undamaged items which form part of a pair, set, 
suite or any other item of a uniform nature, design or colour.
We usually consider flooring that runs between rooms without a break to fall into this 
category. But we also usually think its fair for an insurer to pay some compensation to a 
consumer where a match is lost. In this case Aviva agreed to pay 50% of the cost of 
replacing the flooring in the lounge, which is what wed usually expect. 
Mrs and Mr W say that they had an agreed schedule of works with the contractor. Ive seen 
a copy of this schedule, which included replacing the flooring in the lounge, some other work 
in that room such as replacing the skirting boards and associated decorating, and some 
other work in other parts of the house presumably unrelated to the insurance claim. Ive also 
seen a copy of the revised schedule which Aviva says reflects the actual work needed and 
carried out. The contractor said that when it came to do the work in the lounge, it wasnt 
actually necessary to replace the skirting and so also not necessary to do the redecorating.
However neither the contractor nor Aviva discussed this with Mrs and Mr W at the time. 
Indeed the revised schedule was only given to Mrs and Mr W after the work was completed 
and they complained. I would have expected the contractor or Aviva to have had discussions 
with Mrs and Mr W as soon as the contractor realised that perhaps all the work on the 
original schedule wasnt needed. The remaining work to be carried out could then have been 
agreed and a revised schedule produced before the work was done. I dont think it was fair 
or reasonable to just not do some of the work. Mrs and Mr W had an agreed schedule of 
work and, in the absence of any further discussions, it was reasonable of them to have 
expected that all the work on that schedule would be completed.
Mrs and Mr W also told this service that there is damage to a kickboard in the kitchen which 
was caused by the leak and wasnt repaired. And Mrs and Mr W say a piece of the replaced 
skirting has broken off at the corner and theres a gap in the new flooring. Mrs and Mr W say 
theyve not raised these issues with Aviva, so our investigator has done so on their behalf. 
Aviva says its already responded to these issues. But I cant see from the information Aviva 
has provided that there has been a response. I dont think this is fair or reasonable of Aviva.
Ive looked at the two schedules  the original one and the one showing the work actually 
carried out. The original schedule shows work costing £1393.94 in the lounge, which would 
be £1672.73 including VAT. The revised schedule of work actually done in the lounge shows 
a 50% contribution from Mrs and Mr W of £491.29, which is £589.55 including VAT. So the 
total cost of the work actually done in the lounge was £1179.10, a difference of £493.63.
I calculate from these that Mrs and Mr Ws 50% contribution to the work which was agreed 
and then not done is £246.82. I intend to require Aviva to pay Mrs and Mr W £246.82 (plus 
interest) to compensate them for this work not being done. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable solution rather than saying Mrs and Mr W dont have to pay their bill for the work, 
as it relates more closely to what went wrong.I also intend to require Aviva to compensate Mrs and Mr W for the damaged kickboard and 
skirting, and the gap in the new flooring. I suggest that Mrs and Mr W obtain quotes for the 
work that is needed. 
Mrs and Mr W were put to a lot of inconvenience trying to sort things out with Aviva and the 
contractor and then having to complain to Aviva and to this service. I intend to require Aviva 
to pay Mrs and Mr W £150 in recognition of this inconvenience.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mrs and Mr Ws complaint.
I intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to
pay Mrs and Mr W £246.82 (plus interest) for the scheduled work not carried out
pay Mrs and Mr W to put right the damaged kickboard and skirting and the gap in the 
flooring
pay Mrs and Mr W £150 in recognition of their inconvenience.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva said 
our contractors did apologise to the insured and sent out the revised schedule on 27 
November 2020. They had discussions with the policyholder on site regarding the works 
required. The works were not necessary as part of the insurance claim and as such I dont 
think it is reasonable to ask Aviva to pay for this.
However I dont think this is a fair and reasonable response. As Ive said above, Mrs and Mr 
W say no discussions took place and they didnt get a copy of the new schedule until after 
the work was done and they complained. And Aviva havent provided any evidence of 
discussions between the contractor and Mrs and Mr W on site. 
Mrs and Mr W provided an estimate for the repair work as follows  
     1.  Removal and disposal of existing plinth and replace with new.
2. Removal and disposal of damaged skirting, replace with new and redecorate.
3. Removal and disposal of skirting, replace with new and redecorate to enable repair of 
laminate floorboard which has been separated. Please Note: As advised if laminate 
board cannot be salvaged/reused, it will require replacement. We have not included 
replacement laminate board in out price. As discussed, you cannot purchase 
individual boards they must be purchased in packs and the replacement would 
involve substantially more work. 
4. The redecoration of kitchen and living room walls because of the damage above 
alterations and repairs will entail.
The total cost for the above works will be £1600.00.
They didnt make any other comments. 
In response to this estimate, Aviva said as far as it was aware the work had been completed 
by its contractors. However Aviva still hasnt provided any evidence that it has responded to the issues of the damage to the kickboard and skirting and the gap in the flooring.
Having thought about things again, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to
pay Mrs and Mr W £246.82 for the scheduled work not carried out, plus interest at 
8% a year simple from the date the other work was completed to the date of 
payment. If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs and Mr W how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs and Mr W a certificate showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
pay Mrs and Mr W to put right the damaged kickboard and skirting and the gap in the 
flooring, the total for which will be known once the work is complete 
pay Mrs and Mr W £150 in recognition of their inconvenience.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mr 
and Mrs W provide it with proof of the final amount. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from this date to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. If 
Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs and Mr W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs and Mr W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman