The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) declined part of a claim he 
made under his gadget insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr K made a claim under his gadget insurance policy, for the theft of a 
mobile phone and tablet computer. Mr K explained that these items had been stolen from his 
car, whilst he was having dinner in a restaurant nearby. 
Assurant asked Mr K to provide proof of ownership for these items  as well as a crime 
reference number from the police. Mr K provided the crime reference number, an invoice for 
the tablet PC (which was addressed to him). As well as a receipt for the phone  in another 
persons name. Based on this, Assurant provided settlement to Mr K for the tablet, but not 
the mobile phone.
Assurant said it needed to see further evidence to show that the phone was Mr Ks, including 
some evidence of the phones usage before it could agree to pay this part of the claim. 
Mr K was unhappy with this as he couldnt provide any further evidence to Assurant. Mr K 
said the phone was originally bought by his sister  and gifted to him for his birthday. For 
that reason, the name on the purchase receipt was hers, rather than his. 
Mr K also said he hadnt had the opportunity to use the phone before it was stolen, because 
it had been in storage elsewhere whilst he was moving to a new house. He noted that on the 
day he collected his items from where they were being kept, he went to a mobile phone shop 
and got a SIM card for the device. Mr K said he wasnt sure how to get the phone up and 
running. So, the phone shop said it would help him with this  if he returned to them later in 
the day. Given this, Mr K went for dinner, leaving his phone and tablet in the car. And before 
he could return to the shop and get the phone up and running, the item, amongst other 
things, was stolen from his vehicle.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said Mr K had provided 
evidence that the phone being claimed for was in existence  this being the receipt from his 
sister. As well Mr K having given a police reference number for the loss. So, she was 
satisfied Mr K had provided reasonable information to prove his loss, and how this had 
transpired. 
In addition, our investigator also thought Mr K had provided reasonable explanations as to 
why the receipt for the phone wasnt made out to him, and the phone hadnt yet been 
registered in his name. So, she thought it would be unreasonable to decline the claim based 
on a strict application of the policy terms. And she recommended the claim be paid.
DRN-1826905Assurant didnt agree. It said Mr K did still need to provide proof he, or another member of 
the family he lived with, owned the phone. And, it said the terms and conditions of the policy 
did require a device to be in full working order, and able to connect to the network. 
Because Assurant disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is to uphold this complaint. I require Assurant to provide 
Mr K with settlement for the phone, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. Ive explained why below.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy  to see what cover this provides him 
with. And I can see it does provide cover for loss of damage caused by theft. Neither party 
are disputing that the phone was stolen. A police crime reference number has been provided 
in relation to the event, as have photos of Mr Ks damaged car. So, I havent considered this 
any further.
The policy does also say that for a claim of this nature to be settled, the policyholder might 
need to provide proof they, or a member of the family they live with, owned the item being 
claimed for. It notes that for a mobile phone this may include the make, model, memory size, 
colour and IMEI number of the device. And it highlights that something like a till receipt or 
evidence from the airtime provider could be examples of reasonable proof of ownership.
Proof of ownership is generally requested by an insurer so it can be sure the item is 
something the consumer is entitled to claim for under the policy  as well as to give the 
insurer details of the actual item lost. Given this, Ive needed to think about whether Mr K 
has provided persuasive evidence to Assurant that he owned the phone, in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. As well as needing to consider whether Assurant has 
acted reasonably in light of that information. 
Ive considered what information Mr K has provided, in order to show the phone was his. 
And taking it all into account, I think he has given sufficiently persuasive evidence to detail 
that the phone stolen was his. So, I dont think Assurant acted fairly by declining this element 
of the claim, based strictly on the policy terms.
Mr K did provide a receipt to Assurant for the phone. Im aware the receipt isnt in Mr Ks 
name. But I do think he has provided reasonable explanation for why this is. Mr K noted he 
received the item as a birthday gift from a family member. It isnt unusual to receive gifts of 
this nature. And I think the document, and Mr Ks testimony, does provide some evidence of 
the existence of the phone and how it came to be his. So, I think its reasonable to accept 
the phone was owned by Mr K, given his explanation, and that he wont be able to provide 
any further evidence of the phones purchase  given how he came to receive it.
The receipt does also provide details of the make, model, cost and IMEI number  as well as 
the name of the purchaser. So, I think Mr K has provided several the details mentioned in 
the policy booklet as lending towards proof of ownership. And, Mr K has provided 
information Assurant could use to validate the loss  such as the name of the shop the item 
was purchased from, and the name of the person who bought it, should it have wanted to 
contact them to confirm. Mr K hasnt been able to provide evidence of a SIM being registered to the network, which I 
acknowledge would have been helpful in showing he owned the phone. The policy terms 
dont say the phone must be registered to the network. Just that it must be in full working 
order and be able to be connected to the network. I havent seen any evidence the phone 
wasnt working, or unable to be connected. The phone was purchased in the same month in 
which it was stolen, so I think its likely this was in full working order.
And I think Mr K has also provided a fair explanation as to why the phone wasnt registered 
in his name - or connected to a network at the time. And therefore, why he cant provide 
information with his name on, in relation to the phone. As above, Mr K was in the process of 
setting up the phone when it was stolen. He had obtained a SIM card and was going to be 
assisted with setting the phone up later that day. Unfortunately, it was stolen before this was 
possible.
Because I think the information Mr K is persuasive in showing he owned the phone, I dont 
think it was fair for Assurant to decline to settle this part of the claim. 
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to deal with Mr Ks claim, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman