DRN-4083639
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money  (Virgin) didnt close his 
account.
What happened
Mr S called Virgin on 8 April 2019 and said he wanted to close his account. The limit was 
£24,500 and the balance then was zero. On 9 April 2019, a refund of £5.60 was credited to 
the account. The account then remained open with a credit balance of £5.60, and the limit 
stayed in place - until Mr S complained in August 2022.
Mr S said he was clear that he wanted the account closed when he called Virgin in April 
2019. He couldnt see why Virgin hadnt sent him the balance of £5.60 rather than leaving it 
in the account. It was only in July 2022 when he noticed. Until that time, the credit limit had 
been reported to the credit reference agencies. He said this led to his being declined for two 
credit applications  as his credit rating was affected. He said Virgin should pay 
compensation for the error. He said there should be an investigation as to whether there is a 
systemic problem at Virgin and if so, they should pay a hefty penalty.
Virgin said the credit balance was because of a refund  after the account was closed on 8 
April 2019. They said the reporting to the credit reference agencies continued as a result. 
But Virgin sent Mr S statements after April 2019, so he couldve seen the credit balance and 
called Virgin to have it repaid. Virgin said it was reasonable that Mr S checked his 
statements when they were sent. They sent the balance of £5.60 to Mr S.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said statements had been sent to Mr S 
since April 2019, so he could see what had happened. For that reason, she said 
compensation shouldnt be paid, but said that Virgin should amend Mr S credit file to show 
the account was closed in April 2019.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. He said the outcome was fair, but 
three years too late.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I listened to the call from Mr S to Virgin on 8 April 2019. He clearly said several times that 
he wanted the account to be closed. Virgins call handler confirmed it would be closed that 
day. The balance was then zero. 
But I can see that what then happened was the day after (9 April 2019), a refund of £5.60 
was credited to the account, and so that remained in place  with the limit of £24,500  until 
Mr S contacted Virgin again in July 2022. So on one hand, I think its reasonable to say that  
Virgin shouldve realised that the balance of £5.60 shouldve been returned to him and then 
closed the account after taking the balance back to zero.
But on the other hand, Virgin have shown us that they sent paper statements to Mr S 
address each month from April 2019. And made electronic statements available to him from 
then until January 2021 (when they stopped for all customers). They showed us they sent 
email reminders to Mr S each month reminding him to view his statements.  Mr S told us he 
did receive some statements. So, I think its reasonable to expect Mr S to have seen the 
statements and taken some action  by calling Virgin.
Mr S says he was declined credit twice because his credit file was showing the Virgin credit 
card with a limit of £24,500. But I cant conclude that Mr S was declined credit solely 
because of this issue. To do so, we would need to see clear evidence that an application 
was declined for that sole reason only  and Ive not seen that information. So  I set that 
aside.
Because Mr S could see his account by way of statements, I think its fair to say he couldve  
taken action  and therefore I agree that compensation isnt appropriate here. But  because 
Virgin shouldve closed his account in April 2019, I agree that a fair solution is for Virgin to 
amend Mr S credit file to show the account was closed in April 2019.
Mr S has said that Virgin should be investigated for what may be a systemic problem. On 
this point - we are an informal dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair 
decisions where there is a complaint from a consumer about a financial business, based on 
the individual circumstances of it. Our role isnt to punish or investigate firms. Nor are we 
the regulator of Virgin  thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money  must:
Amend Mr S credit file to show his account was closed in April 2019 and the limit 
then cancelled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman