DRN-2625323
The complaint
Mr As complaint concerns the length of time it took Scottish Equitable Plc trading as 
AEGON to transfer his stocks and shares ISA to a new provider.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr A instigated the transfer with Aegon. It took longer than it shouldve 
done, with the funds eventually sent to the new provider on 19 October 2018. 
Mr As adviser complained to Aegon. It accepted responsibility for the delays and looked at 
how he should be compensated. 
It considered what a reasonable alternative timeframe for completion of the transfer wouldve 
been and determined that the funds shouldve been sent to the new provider on 24 
September 2018. Aegon explained that if this had been the case the amount sent wouldve 
been greater  around £120,000, rather than the amount of just over £112,000 actually sent. 
But the new provider confirmed that despite the amount being higher, it wouldve 
nevertheless bought fewer units because generally the funds into which the money was 
being reinvested were at a higher price in September. As such, Mr A hadnt been 
disadvantaged by the delay. 
Aegon nevertheless accepted that the issue wouldve caused Mr A some trouble and upset 
and offered him £400.  
Mr A didnt accept this. He felt that what had happened to the funds once the original 
investments had been sold was irrelevant and that he should simply be paid compensation 
equivalent to the loss in value. He also questioned the use of 24 September 2018 as the 
hypothetical alternative date, as his wife had made similar transfer instigated on the same 
date and her funds hadnt been sent until 19 October 2018. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator agreed with the conclusions 
reached by Aegon. She felt that the rationale it had used to determine 24 September 2018 
as the date on which the funds shouldve been sent was fair. Mr A didnt accept the 
investigators view, primarily as he didnt agree that if the transfer had been completed 
sooner the re-investment wouldve been made into the same funds. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.   
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Aegon acted incorrectly and caused a delay in the transfer of Mr As 
ISA. It has accepted this. What remains in dispute is how he should be compensated. 
I think that the general approach of comparing the position Mr A was left in as a result of the 
delay with the position he wouldve been in without the delay is fair and in line with how this 
service would usually approach this type of issue. In short, what would Mr As position be 
but for the error? And in making such a comparison I agree that the whole picture must be 
considered  not just the sale but also the subsequent, linked re-investment. 
But there are two elements to such a comparison that Mr A is disputing. Firstly, the 
hypothetical date of a correct transfer and secondly, how the money wouldve been re-
invested. 
As noted, Aegon has determined 24 September 2018 as a reasonable hypothetical date. It 
has done this by looking at how long each stage in the transfer process would usually take. 
This is what I would normally suggest should be done in this type of situation. 
Mr A has suggested that theres another date that should be used instead  relating to his 
wifes similar transfer. While I can understand why hed make this suggestion, I think, on 
balance, that a comparison with the ideal process represents a fairer methodology than a 
comparison with another actual transfer that, although initiated at the same time, may 
nevertheless have been subject to variations in the process that Mr As wouldnt have been. 
Theres no guarantee that two applications made at the same would complete at the same 
time. 
In respect of the re-investment, I can see why Mr A might feel that things mightve been 
done differently if the transfer had completed sooner. But theres no way to be certain of this. 
And that being so, Im satisfied that its reasonable for the comparison to be made on the 
basis of how the money was actually reinvested on October 2018  particularly as the new 
provider has actively confirmed that the money wouldve been re-invested in the same way 
had the transfer completed in September 2018.   
So, in summary, Im satisfied that the manner in which Aegon has offered to compensate 
Mr A for the delay  the comparison of the alternative position and the payment of £400 for 
the trouble and upset cause  is fair and reasonable.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman