DRN-3658311
The complaint
Ms B complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and their decision to place 
her on an insurance plan that didnt qualify her to accrue SmartCare (SC) reward points, 
leading her to believe shed lost access to the points she had accrued historically.
What happened
In January 2021, Ms B discussed her insurance policies with DGI, with the intention of 
obtaining a cheaper price. DGI provided Ms B with cheaper options, confirming they would 
still accrue the SC rewards.
But in September 2021, Ms B was unable to log into the portal where she was able to view, 
and use, her SC rewards. So, she contacted DGI who confirmed shed been placed on a 
policy in January that didnt entitle her to these rewards. Ms B was unhappy about this, so 
she raised a complaint.
Ms B was unhappy that the new policy shed taken out didnt qualify for SC rewards, when 
she made it clear she still wanted access to this benefit. And she was upset that Bs mistake 
had caused her to lose over £2,000 worth of points that shed accrued historically. So, she 
wanted these points to be reinstated as well as compensation for the upset shed been 
caused. She also wanted DGI to refund her half the cost of the appliances shed purchased 
since their error, where she was unable to access her points.
DGI responded and didnt uphold it. They set up a new policy that qualified Ms B for SC 
points again. But they didnt think they were responsible for Ms Bs loss of her historic points, 
as the SC scheme was run by a separate company, who Ill refer to as W. DGI advised Ms 
B would need to contact W to rectify the issue regarding her historic points, and to discuss 
any compensation or reimbursement for appliances she purchased from January 2021 to 
that point. Ms B remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought DGI made an error 
when placing Ms B on a policy that didnt qualify for the SC rewards. And initially, they 
thought this had caused Ms B to lose access to all the historic points she accrued. So, our 
investigator thought DGI should reimburse Ms B 50% of the cost she paid for the two 
appliances she bought during between January and September 2021. And they thought DGI 
should pay Ms B £400 compensation. 
But DGI didnt agree with this recommendation. And they provided evidence from W that 
showed Ms B still had access to her accrued points, worth over £2,000. Because of this, our 
investigator altered their recommendation. They thought Ms B most likely had access to the 
points and so, they didnt think DGI needed to reimburse Ms B for 50% of the appliance 
costs. And as Ms B hadnt lost her opportunity to use the rewards, they thought the 
compensatory payment should be reduced to £200 to reflect this.
DGI accepted this recommendation. But Ms B didnt. She didnt think the reduction in 
compensation from £400 to £200 was fair. She didnt think the fact her historic SC rewards 
were now available took away from the upset and inconvenience shed been caused by the 
service DGI had provided. And she was unhappy that she hadnt received clarification on 
whether she would continue to accrue them. Ms B also raised concerns about our 
investigators response to another issue she raised about the potential mis-sale of the 
policies, if she could no longer accrue points based on the appliances she now has. As Ms B 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive been able to consider. Im aware that, in response to our investigators second, 
revised recommendation, Ms B raised additional concerns about the sale of the policies she 
held, and the fact she accrued points on items that she shouldnt have done. So, she wanted 
clarification on whether points would continue to be accrued and if not, have the premiums 
returned to her. 
But this point isnt something Im able to consider until DGI have had an opportunity to 
consider it within their complaint process. And I dont think they have. So, this isnt 
something Ive discussed within this decision. Instead, this decision focuses on DGI selling 
Ms B a cheaper policy without the SC reward benefit and Ms Bs inability to access the 
historic rewards she accrued.
And I dont think it is in dispute that DGI gave Ms B conflicting information when she spoke 
to them in January 2021. And I think its accepted that DGI placed Ms B on a policy that 
didnt accrue SC rewards, when she made it clear she wanted a policy that held that benefit. 
I think DGI accepted this fault when they accepted our investigators recommendation. So, 
as this isnt being contested, I dont intend to discuss this in any further detail.
Instead, Ive focused on the main dispute which centres around what DGI should do to put 
things right to fairly recognise the impact their error has caused Ms B.
Putting things right
Initially, it was thought that Ms B had lost the historic points shed accrued, worth over 
£2,000. But Ive seen evidence that satisfies me she still has access to these points. The 
terms and conditions of the SC rewards explain for these points to be valid; a live policy 
must be in place. I can see DGI reinstated Ms B onto a policy that accrued SC rewards in 
September 2021 and so, I think Ms B has had access to these points since then.
But I recognise Ms B was unable to confirm whether these points were still available to her 
between January and September 2021. While I am satisfied the SC rewards are managed 
and applied by W, I do think DGI had a responsibility to ensure Ms B was able to access 
these as they were accrued under an insurance policy they provided. And I think they 
couldve done more to assist Ms B. I also think its likely Ms B wouldnt have encountered the 
problems she has had DGI moved Ms B onto a policy with the SC reward benefit in January, 
as she explained she wanted them to do.So, I think DGI should compensate Ms B for the clear upset and inconvenience shes been 
caused. Ive seen evidence that shows me shes been in contact with both W and DGI 
seeking answers, without any success. And I think this wouldve been frustrating and taken 
time and effort. 
But I dont think there has been a financial loss to Ms B because of the error DGI made. Its 
been confirmed by Ms B herself that the two appliances she received in September were 
obtained through making a claim on the insurance policies DGI provided. And the fees she 
paid were upgrade fees, rather than payment for a brand-new appliance outright. So, Ms Bs 
SC rewards wouldnt have been used for these. And Ms B hasnt provided any evidence to 
show shes purchased other appliances that she wouldve used the SC rewards for. So, I 
dont think DGI should reimburse Ms B for the upgrade fees she paid.
And because of the above, I also dont think there is evidence to show Ms B lost the 
opportunity to use her SC rewards before her SC policy was reinstated in September 2021, 
as I have no evidence to show she intended to use them. And she now has access to these 
reward points, while a live policy is in place.
So, considering all of the above, I think the £200 our investigator recommended is a fair one, 
in line with our services usual approach and what I wouldve direct, had it not already been 
made. I think it fairly compensates Ms B for the upset she wouldve felt when she realised 
shed been placed onto the wrong policy, and the inconvenience and frustration shes 
experienced when trying to resolve the issue.
But I think it also takes into account the fact Ms B hasnt lost the opportunity to use the 
historic points shes accrued, as long as she maintains a live policy, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the SC reward scheme. And the fact that the appliances Ms B received in 
September were obtained through an insurance claim, rather than a brand-new purchase, 
meaning the fees she paid were upgrade fees, rather than outright payments for a brand-
new appliance. So, I think DGI should pay Ms B £200.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms B was hoping for. And I appreciate our investigation 
has led Ms B to have concerns over whether she is able to continue to accrue SC reward 
points, and the fact she accrued points incorrectly on previous policies. As Ive explained 
above, Ms B will need to raise her additional complaints with DGI before our service can 
consider these further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Ms B £200 to recognise the upset and inconvenience shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman