DRN-3909132
The complaint
Mr and Ms S have complained that Vitality mis-sold a private medical insurance policy to 
them and unfairly rejected a claim.
What happened
Mr and Ms S bought a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by Vitality Health 
Limited. Mr S spoke to an adviser and decided to take a policy with continued personal 
medical exclusions for himself and a moratorium for Ms S, due to cost considerations. 
Ms S called to make a claim relating to her varicose veins but Vitality said the claim was 
excluded under the moratorium terms as it classed the condition as pre-existing. 
Ms S disagreed and said her varicose veins were asymptomatic prior to the start date of the 
policy and also complained that Vitality had mis-sold the policy and failed to explain the 
moratorium terms.
Vitality looked into the complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. Unhappy with 
this, Ms S referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. But 
she found that Vitality hadnt treated Ms S fairly as she hadnt consulted a GP before the 
start of the policy. She also said Ms S was a qualified medical professional and had Vitality 
received the claim from a lay person, it would have been accepted. 
Vitality disagreed and said it wasnt fair for this Service to uphold a complaint based on what 
another member may or may not have noticed.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 December 2022 which Ive set out in full below.
Having done so, I dont intend on upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling an insurance policy as an advised sale, the seller must ensure that the 
policy is suitable for the customer.
When dealing with claims, an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
In relation to the sale of the policy, Im satisfied that the policy wasnt mis-sold as the 
adviser discussed Mr and Ms S medical history with Mr S and he confirmed that 
apart from Ms S thumb, there was no other relevant medical information. Mr S said 
he would discuss the quote with Ms S and was happy with the information provided.
If Mr or Ms S werent happy with the moratorium terms, they could have opted for 
continued personal medical exclusions for both Mr and Ms S but this would have 
been more expensive. The adviser went through the options during the call with Mr S 
and also sent the policy documents which confirmed the moratorium terms and how it 
applied. Based on the information Mr S provided to the adviser, the policy was 
suitable.
The moratorium terms confirm Vitality will not pay for treatment of any medical 
condition or related condition which in the five years before your cover start date you 
have received medical treatment for, had symptoms of, have asked advice on or, to 
the best of your knowledge were aware existed. This is called a pre-existing medical 
condition.
Ms S says she was aware of the varicose veins before the start date of the policy but 
that they were asymptomatic. The terms say the condition or any related condition is 
excluded if youto the best of your knowledge were aware existed. So this is 
enough to make it a pre-existing condition as defined in the policy  even if Ms S was 
asymptomatic, as she was aware of the varicose veins before the start date of the 
policy.
Our investigator found that Vitality hadnt treated Ms S fairly due to her medical 
expertise. But I have to consider each case based on the specific circumstances of 
the case and apply the terms based on the knowledge of the consumer.
Ms S also said Vitality failed to return calls when requested but I havent seen 
evidence of any call back requests.
Ms S replied to my provisional decision and in summary, has made the following comments:
Moratorium restrictions arent helpful for problems which Ms S considers to be new 
and not pre-existing but that is a matter of opinion. 
The interpretation of asymptomatic varicose veins doesnt make sense as a doctor 
and a patient. There is a huge difference between when veins become symptomatic 
and her condition.
There is no definitive evidence of the exact date of a diagnosis of varicose veins  
her medical records would need to be scrutinised. Ms S is sure that her varicose 
veins were not symptomatic at all until October. 
Firstly, Id like to thank Ms S for responding and providing her comments. I understand and 
appreciate her disappointment with my decision. Ive given careful thought and consideration 
to what she has said. 
The policy terms for her moratorium policy clearly define what a pre-existing condition is. As 
set out in my provisional decision, as Ms S had varicose veins before the start of the policy, 
any related condition would be excluded. I accept what Ms S says that her varicose veins 
were asymptomatic before the policy start date  but that isnt the test here. The test is 
whether there was a condition or a related condition which existed. 
Moratorium policies specifically exclude these types of scenarios which is why they are 
generally cheaper. Alternative cover was available which may have covered Ms S claim. But 
Mr S chose to proceed with moratorium terms for Ms S which means there are limitations and exclusions. 
Having considered everything again, I dont think Vitality unfairly declined Ms S claim and so 
I adopt my provisional decision as my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman