DRN-4037153
The complaint
F, a limited company complains that Revolut Ltd, unfairly blocked its accounts, which led to 
difficulties paying money in and out of its business accounts. F would like to be 
compensated for the financial loss and inconvenience it suffered.
F is represented in its complaint by its director, Mr T.
What happened
The events that took place are well known to both parties and arent in dispute. So, Ill only 
describe them here briefly.
F had two accounts with Revolut. In July 2022, Revolut reviewed Fs accounts. Whilst it 
reviewed Fs accounts it placed a blocked on its accounts. The type of block applied meant 
all transactions were blocked  including faster payments. 
In August 2022, Revolut were notified that a court freezing order had been taken out against 
F that restricted the operation of Fs Revolut accounts. Revolut complied with the freezing 
order. 
F provided information to the police and court about the source of funds in its Revolut 
accounts. Following a review of this information, on 26 September 2022, the court set aside 
the freezing order. Revolut were informed on 28 September 2022, that it could unblock Fs 
accounts, which it did on 29 September 2022. 
Mr T complained to Revolut about the block of Fs accounts. He said that he could have 
provided full explanations for the source of the funds in the account, which had been from 
the sale of properties  in other words all the money in the accounts was legitimate. Mr T 
said that Revolut had unfairly used an algorithm to block Fs accounts and could have simply 
asked him to provide information about the source of funds, which would have prevented the 
accounts being blocked.
 
Mr T says the block on Fs accounts meant direct debits went unpaid, which caused financial 
embarrassment and a property development overseas was delayed. Hes also said that F 
had to pay legal costs in relation to the freezing order, which could have been avoided if 
Revolut completed its due diligence properly on the way F was operating its accounts. 
Overall, he said that the whole experience was mentally draining and exhausting. So, he 
wants Revolut to pay F compensation.
 
Revolut said it hadnt done anything wrong in complying with the court order. But it accepted 
it had caused some delays in its review. It apologised and offered F £100 compensation. 
Unhappy with this response, F brought its complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened.
The investigator accepted that the restrictions on Fs accounts caused F difficulty in making 
and accepting payments. But they said Revolut hadnt done anything wrong when it had 
blocked Fs accounts and had done so in order to company with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. And the freezing order issued by the court against F. The investigator also said 
that once the order had been discharged, Revolut released Fs funds promptly. So, the 
investigator didnt uphold Fs complaint.
Mr T, disagreed. He said Revolut could easily have asked him for information about the 
money in Fs accounts and he would have provided a full explanation. But he wasnt asked. 
Instead, he says, Revolut based its actions on computer algorithms and treated F unfairly 
when it blocked its accounts.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already explained, Revolut has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. 
They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, 
and to prevent and detect financial crime. Having reviewed all the evidence Im satisfied that 
Revolut were acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it restricted Fs 
accounts in July 2022. I understand not having access to Fs accounts caused F 
inconvenience, but it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award F compensation since I dont 
believe Revolut acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did when it blocked Fs 
accounts.  
Revolut continued to block Fs accounts after it received a freezing order from  the court. I 
acknowledge Mr Ts comments that Revolut could have asked him for an explanation about 
the activity on Fs accounts and source of funds. And that he has incurred legal costs trying 
to sort things out with the court. But Revolut owed a duty to the court to ensure the freezing 
order wasnt breached. I should also explain that this service has no power to review or vary 
an order made by the courts. 
Having looked at the freezing order and reviewed all the evidence, in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that the decision for Revolut to continue to block Fs accounts was a reasonable 
one. The terms of Fs accounts also allow Revolut to block accounts. If Mr T feels the 
freezing order shouldnt have been made, then he needs to take that up with the police and 
court. Once it was made clear to Revolut that that the freezing order had been discharged it 
removed the block from Fs accounts and released the funds. Im satisfied it did this promptly 
and there were no undue delays. So, I cannot conclude that Revolut treated F unfairly when 
it blocked its accounts. And whilst I appreciate F was caused inconvenience by the blocks to 
its accounts, I wont be awarding F compensation. 
Finally, I note that Revolut accepted it should have provided better service to F when it 
initially blocked its accounts. It has said that it could have done things quicker. Revolut has 
apologised for the delays and offered F £100 compensation. Having looked at the 
circumstances, I think this is fair and reasonable and I wont be asking Revolut to do 
anything more to resolve Fs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman