DRN-4091832
The complaint
Mr L complains that he has incurred additional travel costs as a result of U K Insurance
Limiteds (UKI) handling of his claim to repair damage to his car, under his motor insurance
policy.
What happened
Mr Ls car was damaged in February 2022. He contacted UKI to make a claim but wasnt
satisfied its approved repairer could complete the work effectively. This was after hed
spoken to another garage about the work.
Mr L says he wasnt informed of the implications when he opted for the main dealer to
complete the repairs instead of UKIs approved repairer. This meant he didnt have a hire car
for the full period his car was under repair. Mr L says he incurred costs as a result.
UKI says it was Mr Ls decision to have the repairs carried out at the main dealer. It says his
policy terms allow for a hire car to be provided for up to 21 days in these circumstances.
Mr L didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator
upheld his complaint. She thought Mr L had shown part of the repairs needed to be
completed at the main dealer. As his car was leased, he was concerned this could impact on
his agreement with the leasing company if another repairer did the work.
UKI says any work its repairer cant do is outsourced to a main dealer. Our investigator says
had UKI, or its repairer, made this clear to Mr L he wouldve been in a more informed
position. If UKIs repairer completed the work this would have avoided him being without a
hire car, as there was no hire duration limit. Our investigator says UKI should pay Mr L £10
per day to compensate for his loss of use of his car, for the full duration of the claim.
UKI didnt think this outcome was fair. It says from his first contact Mr L was told his car
would be repaired in-line with the manufacturers recommendations by its approved garage.
It says Mr L still chose to appoint his own garage despite this. As well as being told of the
limitations with the hire car. UKI subsequently offered to pay Mr L £425 in respect of the
costs he incurred for the loss of use of his car. But he didnt accept its offer or our
investigators findings.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, it has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Ls complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to not uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
Ive read Mr Ls policy terms to understand the cover he has in place. In relation to the
provision of a hire car, the terms say:
Hire car  a small hatchback car or similar that is supplied to you by the hire car company
on a temporary basis. This car should keep you mobile but may not be the same as your car
in terms of its size, type, value or status.
If your car is being repaired by your own repairer we will arrange for a hire car to be supplied
to you for up to 21 days in a row.
I think the terms are clear that as Mr L chose to use his own repairer, the provision of a hire
car was limited to 21 days. The alternative was for Mr L to agree to UKIs approved repairer
completing the work. The terms say a courtesy car can be provided whilst repairs are being
carried out by UKIs approved repairer. There is no time limit for this.
Ive thought about Mr Ls comments that he was concerned the approved repairer wouldnt
be able to complete the work and that this would have to be done by the main dealer. He
says this was because of exclusive hardware/software installation. He says this couldve
had an impact on his agreement with his car leasing company.
I havent seen information from the leasing company that shows UKIs approved repairer
couldnt have repaired the car. Mr L has sent an email he received from the main dealer.
This is dated in November 2022 after the repairs were completed. It says:
With regards to the repair of the Digital dashboards, this is something that would have to
come back to a Skoda main dealer to save the current data and upload the data to the new
dashboard before and after the body shop replaces the unit.
We asked UKI for its comments on this email. It says any part of a repair that cannot be
completed by its appointed repairer would be outsourced to the main dealer. It says this is
common practice. As per its policy terms it says any repairs carried out by its approved
repairer is guaranteed for three years.
I understand Mr L visited a garage that told him it couldnt carry out the repairs. The advice
he was given is that this would need to be done at the main dealer. He also says other
garages told him this was, more than a plug-in job.
I dont dispute what Mr L says. But UKI confirms its repairer could complete the majority of
the work. And its process allows for main dealer involvement as and when this might be
necessary.
Ive listened to a recording from the first call Mr L made to UKI to register his claim. The call
lasts just under 25 minutes. The claim is discussed. UKIs agent tells Mr L that all its
engineers are trained up to the manufacturers specifications. And that a three-year
guarantee is provided for the repairs. During the call its agreed that the car will be sent to
UKIs approved repairer.
In a later call in March 2022, Mr L asks UKI for the repairs be completed at his choice of
main dealer garage. He says he was initially pushed towards UKIs approved repairer but
having spoken to them he was concerned at its comments that this was a just a plug-in
job. Mr L says he understands both repairers will have to order a part that is on back-
order. UKIs agent talks about a hire car normally being provided for 14 days when a
customer appoints their own choice of garage. Mr L says that in terms of the courtesy car, if
it has to go back it has to go back.During the same call UKIs agent says the work its repairer carries out will be to the same
standard as the main dealer. He says the car will be returned in the condition it was in before
the incident. Mr L raises concerns about his lease agreement and says this is due to end
shortly. UKIs agent says this as a separate agreement and that he isnt able to help with
this. The call ends with the agent confirming he will start the process to get the garage
changed over.
Ive thought carefully about what was discussed during these calls.
UKIs agents tell Mr L that its engineers are trained to the manufacturers specifications and
there is a three-year guarantee with the work. Hes also told that the repairs will be carried
out to the same specification as the main dealer.
I acknowledge Mr L spoke to other garages and felt it was best to have the repairs
completed at the main dealer. But at no point was Mr L told by UKI or its repairer that it
wouldnt be able to complete the work to the required standard. In fact, the opposite was
advised. He was told the engineers were qualified to the manufacturers specifications, and
the car would be returned in the condition it was in prior to the incident where the damage
was caused.
Mr L had concerns that there could be issues returning his car to the lease company if the
repairs werent carried out to the required standards. But I havent seen evidence that the
lease company informed Mr L hed need to have repairs completed at the main dealer. Or
that the lease company was contacted.
Mr L says if hed known the approved repairer would, where necessary, outsource some of
the work to the main dealer he wouldnt have made the decision to switch garages. I note
UKIs comments that its agent wouldnt have known whether aspects of this repair would
need the involvement of a main dealer garage. This is something an engineer would have to
authorise. But it says Mr L was told that his car would be repaired to the manufacturers
specifications. So, although I acknowledge his reasoning, I dont agree it was reasonable to
assume UKIs repairer couldnt complete the work to the required standard.
UKI said its repairer would return the car in the pre-loss condition, with the repairs
completed by appropriately qualified engineers. I havent seen anything that indicates this
wouldnt have been the case.
Mr L was aware that the hire car was available for a limited period. He makes this clear
when in the second call, he refers to the courtesy car going back. So, Im satisfied he was
aware of the implications of his decision to use his choice of garage for the repairs.
Having considered all this, Im not persuaded that UKI acted unfairly in the information its
agents communicated to Mr L. He decided it was best for his car to be repaired at the main
dealer. This was despite being told the repairs would be completed to the same standard by
UKIs garage. Also, that using the main dealer meant a hire car was only available for a
limited time.
UKIs agent made an error in the call when he said the hire period is normally 14 days. The
policy terms say this is actually 21 days. But I dont think this error impacts here. Mr L was
clearly aware that a time limit applied when he made his decision to change garages.
In summary I dont think UKI treated Mr L unfairly when handling his claim. So, I cant
reasonably ask it to do anymore.Im aware UKI offered Mr L a payment for the loss of use of his car, following our
investigators view on the matter. Im not minded to uphold this complaint, so I wont require
UKI to pay this. It can of course maintain its offer to Mr L but that is a decision for it to make
not something I will require.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI said it had no further comments or information it wanted me to consider. 
Mr L doesnt agree that its an accurate assessment to say UKI or its repairer didnt tell him it 
wouldnt be able to carry out the repairs to the required standard. He says this isnt a 
comparison of a car tyre being to the manufacturers specification  its about the installation 
of a dashboard that is exclusive to the main dealer/manufacturer. Mr L says the garage 
being able to complete most of the repairs is irrelevant. He says the crucial element of this is 
if, or how the main dealer was to be involved. He says he shouldve been informed the work 
would be outsourced. 
Mr L says he was told during a call that he shouldve been offered compensation for being 
misled. He says he understands his decision breaks policy but in this exceptional 
circumstance UKI shouldve told him, via its engineer, that outsourcing was an option or 
offered a different approved garage. Alternatively, he says UKI shouldve explicitly confirmed 
the change in policy and the date the car would be returned. 
In his response Mr L highlights the policy term that refers to a replacement car being 
provided whilst repairs are undertaken by an approved repairer. He queries why a main 
dealer, that is to be involved in the dashboard installation, isnt approved.
Mr L concludes his response to says that in summary the foundation of his complaint relates 
to the conditions around changing the garage. He reiterates that UKI shouldve informed him 
that they would outsource repairs to the main dealer. He queries if delays in ordering a part 
by the main dealer have been evidenced and says he shouldve been allowed to return to 
UKIs approved repairer sooner. Mr L says he has suffered considerable financial losses 
because of errors in judgement from UKI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ls comments that the car component in question isnt a tyre and that it 
relates to a dashboard that is exclusively dealt with by the main dealer/manufacturer. But I 
dont think this warrants a change to my decision. 
Mr L chose to appoint the main dealer to carry out the repairs based on his view that this 
was the most appropriate course of action. I note his argument that his car was leased, and 
he didnt want the repairs to be carried out in a way that wouldnt be acceptable to the lease 
company. But I havent seen information from the lease company that indicates Mr Ls view 
was correct to have concerns about UKIs approved repairer. The information UKI and its 
agents gave Mr L is that the repairs would be carried out to the manufacturers 
specifications, and it would be returned in its pre-loss condition.
I note Mr Ls comments that UKI shouldve told him at an early stage that, if necessary, it would outsource work to a main dealer. In my provisional decision I referred to UKIs 
comments that its agents speaking with Mr L wouldnt have reasonably known that aspects 
of the repair would need a main dealers involvement. I think this is a fair point. It was Mr Ls 
decision to use the main dealer despite being told the repairs would be carried out to the 
manufacturers specifications. I dont think UKI did anything wrong here. 
Mr L refers to exceptional circumstances that applied here. I dont think there were 
exceptional circumstances. Repairing accident damaged cars is something UKI and its 
agents are experienced in. The issue here is that Mr L decided its approved repairer 
wouldnt be able to carry out the work to the required standard. I dont think its been shown 
that this was a reasonable view to take. UKI accommodated Mr Ls choice of repairer. But I 
think it has fairly relied on its policy terms when deciding what cover was in place for the 
costs Mr L claimed. 
I acknowledge Mr Ls comments about why UKI didnt consider the main dealer was 
approved. UKI explains that it has a network of repairers that it approves to carry out repair 
work. The main dealer isnt part of this network. I appreciate the main dealer was involved in 
part of the repairs. But this doesnt mean it was part of UKIs network of approved repairers. 
I note what Mr L says about the time taken to order the part from the main dealer. I havent 
seen evidence that persuades me UKI acted unreasonably here. Or that it was at fault for 
any delay. 
In summary, although Im sorry Mr L has incurred travel costs as a result of not having his 
car  Im not persuaded by his further comments that I should change my decision. I dont 
think UKI treated him unfairly so I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ls 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman