DRN-2646911
The complaint
Mr S complains that the transfer value of his pension savings was incorrectly reported by 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. He says that as a result of the errors, he understood that 
the transfer value of his pension savings was around 20% higher than the value Aviva is now 
quoting. 
What happened
Mr S held pension savings with Aviva. Those pension savings were held in a with-profits 
fund that was designed to provide an annuity at his retirement. But Aviva also provided 
policyholders with an equivalent transfer value for these annuity amounts. These were 
calculated by reference to standard factors based on the annuity type and details about the 
policyholder. 
In 2016 Aviva amended one of the factors that was used in these calculations to remove any 
reference to the gender of the policyholder. But Aviva says that these changes created an 
error in its system. As a result the transfer values that it automatically calculated were too 
large, and any quotations needed to be manually handled. Aviva says that it corrected the 
error in July 2019 and quotations it issued after that date were incorrect.
Mr S asked Aviva to provide a quotation of his pension benefits in October 2018. That 
quotation failed to be performed manually so the quotation Aviva sent was higher than it 
should have been. At that time Aviva told Mr S that the transfer value of his pension savings 
was £73,536.73.
Mr S was given a revised quotation by Aviva in February 2020. That quotation was much 
lower than the one hed previously received, providing a transfer value of £57.332.60. So 
Mr S complained to Aviva and asked for an explanation of the fall in value.
Aviva explained the processing error that was present in the transfer value quotation hed 
received in 2018. It said that error meant that the transfer value was around £7,000 higher 
than it should have been. And it said that the remaining deficit of around £9,000 arose as a 
result of changes in annuity rates and the final bonus that was being added to plans such as 
was held by Mr S. It confirmed to him that the most recent quotation was correct and the 
amount to which he was entitled. But it accepted that it had provided a poor level of service 
to Mr S and paid him £500 in compensation.
Mr S didnt think Avivas offer of compensation was enough, so he brought his complaint to 
this Service. The complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that 
the compensation Aviva had paid to Mr S was fair and reasonable. He didnt think that Mr S 
was entitled to receive the higher transfer value. So he didnt think that the complaint should 
be upheld.
Mr S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The pension plan that Mr S held with Aviva was designed to provide him with an annuity 
when he retired. Any premiums he paid secured an amount of annuity that was based on 
rates that took into account Mr Ss age at the time.  Regular bonusses were accrued on 
these benefits, and a final bonus might be added when the policy terminated.
But Aviva also provided its policyholders with the ability to transfer an equivalent cash value 
of their pension savings to another provider. The annuity amounts were converted to give a 
transfer value using cash option factors that were dependent on the policyholders age and 
the features of the annuity. Since 2006 Aviva says it has applied a discretionary 
enhancement to these factors so they provided better value for money for the policyholder. 
The cash option factors are linked to the current annuity rates.
In 2016 Aviva altered one of the factors that was used in these calculations so that the 
gender of the policyholder was no longer taken into account. But that change was incorrectly 
added to its system and as a result the automated quotations were incorrect - the transfer 
values that were being quoted were too high. When it identified this problem Aviva says it 
warned its advisors that any affected quotations should be calculated manually.
The quotation system was fixed in July 2019, so quotations issued after then would show the 
correct transfer value. But around that time Aviva also made changes to the final bonus rates 
that were added to these pension plans. Generally that resulted in the final bonus rates 
being reduced across all the policies although there were variations depending on the year 
when the benefits were purchased and so some policies were affected more than others.
When Mr S asked for a quotation of his pension savings in October 2018 Aviva failed to 
process that quotation correctly. It sent him the result produced by its quotation system 
rather than the manual calculation it should have performed. So the transfer value that Aviva 
quoted to Mr S was around £7,000 higher than it should have been. Mr S didnt take any 
further steps at that time to put his pension into payment, but he no doubt took note of the 
transfer valuation that Aviva provided to him.
Mr S next asked Aviva for a quotation of his pension benefits in February 2020. By then two 
things had happened. Aviva had implemented the correction to its quotation system so there 
was no need to manually calculate the transfer values following the change to the gender 
factors in 2016. And, as I explained earlier, Aviva had made some changes to the expected 
final bonus that would be added to pension policies such as the one held by Mr S.From all the information that has been provided to me it appears that the quotation Aviva 
provided to Mr S in February 2020 was a fair and accurate representation of the pension 
benefits he held with the company. Part of the reduction was as a result of Avivas normal 
business practices and its assessment of the value of Mr Ss pension savings. And, bearing 
in mind what I said earlier about how I would intend to put things right, whilst some of the 
reduction arose from the error Aviva made I cannot conclude that Aviva should be expected 
to honour the higher quotation that Mr S received in 2018. 
Ultimately the transfer value that Aviva provided to Mr S in 2020 was a correct 
representation of the value of the pension benefits to which he was entitled. Mr S didnt ask 
for his pension to be put into payment (or be transferred to another provider) in 2018  if he 
had done so I think it more likely than not that Aviva would have noticed the error and 
corrected the quotation at that stage. And I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr S 
has made any irrevocable decisions on the basis of the incorrect quotation. As has been 
shown from the adjustments made to the final bonus amounts in 2019, the values that Aviva 
quoted were not guaranteed and so could change at any time  so I think it would have been 
unsafe for Mr S to make any irrevocable decisions on the basis of valuations that were not 
guaranteed.
I have no doubts that Mr S suffered a great deal of disappointment when he found out that 
the transfer value of his pension savings was much lower than he had previously been told. 
But I dont think that he was ever entitled to receive the higher amount that was derived from 
the error in Avivas quotation system. And I think that Aviva acted entirely within its normal 
and reasonable business practices when it altered the value of the final bonus that was 
being added to Mr Ss plan in 2019.
But I think it is right that Aviva acknowledges the mistake it made, and the undoubted upset 
that this has caused to Mr S. I have seen that Aviva has paid Mr S £500 in respect of that 
trouble and upset. I have considered the amount of that payment carefully. And having done 
so I have concluded that the amount Aviva has paid is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I wouldnt expect Aviva to pay a higher level of compensation and so I dont 
think it needs to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any additional award 
against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman