DRN-4469067
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax lent irresponsibly when it 
approved a loan application he made. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr M applied online for a £25,000 loan with Halifax to buy a car. In his 
application, Mr M said he was employed with an income of £24,000 a year and was a tenant 
with rent of £350 a month. Halifax says it carried out a credit search but didnt find any other 
outstanding credit in Mr Ms name. Halifax applied regular estimated living cots of £562 a 
month. Halifax says that, based on the information it was given, Mr M had around £735 a 
month as surplus income. 
Halifax approved a £25,000 loan with monthly repayments of £432 over a six year term and 
the funds were released to Mr M. 
Mr Ms explained that he was a victim of an investment scam which led to him transferring 
the funds he borrowed to fraudsters. 
Representatives acting for Mr M complained to Halifax and it issued a final response. Halifax 
said it had carried out the relevant checks when looking at Mr Ms loan application and didnt 
agree it had lent irresponsibly. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint. They werent persuaded Halifax 
had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr Ms representatives asked to 
appeal and said Mr Ms rent and council tax exceeded the outgoings figure Halifax had used. 
The representatives added that due to the size of the loan, when compared to Mr Ms 
income, it wouldve expected Halifax to carry out more checks. Mr Ms representatives also 
gave information about the scam hes been a victim of. As Mr Ms representatives asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
In response to the investigator, Mr Ms representatives said they thought Halifax shouldve 
done more to check whether he could afford to repay the loan. I can see the investigators 
findings explain they also felt Halifax shouldve completed more comprehensive checks, like 
checking Mr Ms income. I agree that a loan of £25,000 against a declared income of 
£24,000 ought to have led to some further checks by Halifax. 
As Ive said above, theres no set list of checks a lender has to carry out. But Halifax has 
provided copies of Mr Ms bank statements from the period immediately preceding his 
application. Mr Ms income can be seen and in various months its somewhat higher than the 
figure provided in the application. In addition, Mr Ms outgoings can be seen on his bank 
statements. I note the financial statement Mr Ms representatives have supplied. But there 
are several outgoings on that financial statement that dont appear on Mr Ms bank 
statements. Looking at the evidence of how Mr Ms account was used, I think the outgoings 
figure Halifax noted was reasonable. 
Based on the information Ive seen, even if Halifax had obtained further evidence from Mr M 
I still think it wouldve proceeded with his loan application. In my view, the loan appeared to 
be affordable based on the information Mr M gave in his application, what Halifax found 
when it carried out lending checks and the evidence on his bank statements. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr M but as I havent been persuaded that Halifax lent irresponsibly, Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman