DRN-1373695
The complaint
Mr B complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limiteds administration of his commercial 
motor insurance led to it being cancelled when he didnt provide required documents.
What happened
Mr B took out a policy through Atlanta 1. The policys underwriter requested Atlanta 1 to 
obtain further information from Mr B. Atlanta 1 wrote to Mr B requesting three documents. It 
sent a chaser saying that the documents were incomplete. And then it sent a cancellation 
notice. Mr B didnt provide anything further and so the policy cancelled. Mr B was unhappy 
as he said he hadnt received the letters asking for further information. He said he didnt 
have a photocard licence that was requested. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Atlanta 1 
had sent letters and asked for specific documents and Mr B hadnt provided three of these. 
He thought it had given Mr B notice that his policy would cancel. And so he didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. 
Mr B said he hadnt received Atlanta 1s requests. He said his new insurance was for a 
doubled premium as a result. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B feels frustrated. Hes told us that the cancellation has affected his 
other policies and also affected him financially. Our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the brokers acted in line with its terms of business and fairly and reasonably.
The policy underwriter initially requested Atlanta 1 to obtain the following from Mr B:
V5; all pages for his van
Driving Licence copy; front and back
DVLA Driving Licence Summary
Proof of Address: utility bill dated within the last 3 months
Proof of NCD
Atlanta 1 wrote to Mr B requesting these and Mr B received this letter. I think the letter made 
it clear that the policy was at risk of cancellation if the documents werent provided within set 
timescales.
Mr B provided the proof of NCD and the Licence Summary. But the V5 was incomplete and 
the utility bill wasnt within the required dates. I can see that Atlanta 1 asked for a photocard 
driving licence when the underwriter had at first only requested the front and back of the 
licence. It later asked for a photocard licence. But I think Mr Bs old-style licence should have 
sufficed. However, there were still two other missing documents. 
Atlanta 1 then said it sent Mr B a letter requesting the missing documents. And then it sent a 
notice of cancellation letter giving him a final chance to provide these. Mr B said he didnt 
receive the two warning letters from Atlanta 1. He said the first he knew of the cancellation 
was when he received the confirmation of cancellation. But Ive checked and I can see that 
all the letters were sent to the same address. So I cant say that Atlanta 1 didnt send them. 
Mr B thought Atlanta 1 should have contacted him by other means to tell him about the 
impending cancellation. I agree that this is good practice, but we cant require a business to 
adopt specific procedures as these are its commercial decisions. 
So I think Atlanta 1 passed on the underwriters requirements to validate the policy. I think it 
gave Mr B clear warnings of the consequences if he didnt provide these documents within 
the required time. I think it gave him clear notice of cancellation and also confirmed this to 
him. So I cant say that Atlanta 1 made errors in its administration of Mr Bs policy that 
caused the policy to be cancelled.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman