DRN-3709528
The complaint
A trustee of a trust, who Ill refer to as Mrs K, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
unfairly closed the trusts bank account, without informing the trustees, and then declined to 
reopen it. 
I will refer to the trust itself as J in this complaint. 
What happened
In 2019, Mrs K arranged to meet with the bank to discuss funds due to the trust following the 
winding up of her mothers estate. At that meeting, the bank told Mrs K that Js account had 
been closed as dormant in March of that year. 
Both sides agreed that Mrs K would provide some documentation to get the account 
reopened. Mrs Ks family lawyers (who were also trustees) put together the documents 
required and Mrs K hand-delivered them in February 2020.  
The pandemic then caused delays and the bank lost the documents. In June 2020, the bank 
told Mrs K that it wasnt going to reopen the trust account because it had ceased to offer 
personal trust accounts on 27 March 2020. 
As Mrs K had submitted the trusts application a month before this policy change, she 
appealed. On 28 October 2020, the bank declined to reconsider, saying it couldnt reopen 
the account as it didnt offer personal trust accounts any more. 
Mrs K made a second complaint, but the bank, whilst apologetic, declined to change its 
decision. The bank paid compensation of £400 for the trouble and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs K asked our service to look in what had happened. 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 August 2022. In summary, I made the following points: 
I agreed with our investigator that it was more likely than not that the bank had made 
an error by closing Js account without informing Mrs K. 
If the bank hadnt made this error, I thought the account would still have been open to 
receive the funds due from the estate, which comprised £166,218.96 in November 
2019 and a further £10,028.36 in January 2020. 
On balance, I was persuaded that the trusts funds would have been placed on 
deposit. I said that largely because Mrs Ks email to the bank showed clearly that she 
wanted to discuss interest-bearing accounts and the standard personal trust account 
did not pay any interest. 
RBS has told me that there was only one fixed term deposit available to trusts at that 
time  a two year fixed term. I think its therefore more likely than not, that but for the 
banks error, the trust would have invested the full amount in a two year fixed rate 
deposit in January 2020.  
I thought it likely that at the expiry of the fixed deposit, J would have had to find a 
new bank account to receive the funds. 
I was minded to consider the £400 already paid by the bank to be sufficient 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its errors.
I also intended to direct RBS to pay the trust the amount of the legal bill that related 
to the preparation of documents to request the reopening of the account. J incurred 
these costs as a result of the banks error, so I thought the bank should cover them. 
I therefore provisionally awarded compensation of interest at 0.85% per annum for two years 
on the sum of £176,247.32, plus a further sum of £140 plus VAT for legal fees.
The bank didnt comment on my provisional decision. Mrs K said she was happy with my 
provisional findings and grateful for the additional compensation. She accepted that it 
wouldnt now be appropriate to direct the bank to reopen the wrongly closed account. 
Mrs K also asked me to consider directing the bank to pay the compensation, and the £800, 
which was in the account when it was closed, to her lawyers client account, where the rest 
of the trusts funds remain. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any objections or new evidence and arguments, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional view. 
In summary, I still consider it more likely than not that the bank failed to give the trustees due 
notice of the closure of the trust account. Were it not for this error, I think the funds from 
Mrs Ks mothers estate would have been paid into the account and then transferred to the 
two year fixed term deposit that was available at that point. The trust would also not have 
had to pay a £140 legal bill for arranging to provide the documentation the bank required to 
reopen the account (which never in fact occurred).
Mrs K would like the compensation to be paid into her and Js lawyers client account. Given 
that the trust doesnt have a bank account of its own, this doesnt seem an unreasonable 
proposal.
There is also the matter of the balance on the account when it closed. I can see that Mrs K 
has received some contradictory instructions from the bank regarding reclaiming this sum 
and which forms are necessary and I would encourage the banks complaints department to 
take ownership of this issue. 
I can see that, in the course of our investigation, the bank confirmed to our investigator 
which form was necessary and this has been forwarded to Mrs K for her completion. 
On receipt of this form, in order to ensure this matter is fully closed, I would strongly urge the 
bank to arrange for the outstanding balance to be forwarded to the same account and at the same time as the compensation awarded below. 
Putting things right
My starting point is that, where the bank has made an error, it should put the trust back in 
the position it would have been in were it not for the error.
I am therefore awarding compensation in the form of interest at 0.85% per annum for two 
years on the sum of £176,247.32.  
I also direct RBS to pay a further sum of £140 plus VAT for legal fees incurred for putting 
together documentation that it shouldnt have needed and then lost. 
RBS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mrs K provides 
instructions on where to pay the funds (the trustees having accepted my final decision). If it 
pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
I consider the £400 already paid is sufficient to cover the trouble and upset caused to Mrs K 
as the trustee dealing with this issue. So I am not making a further award for this.  
The bank should get in touch with Mrs K without delay to get instructions on where to pay 
the funds. 
On receipt of the dormant account reclaim form, I would encourage the bank to pay the 
dormant account balance at the same time to the same account. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay compensation as 
set out above to the bank account nominated by Mrs K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the trustees of J to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman