DRN-2871689
The complaint
Mr K and Miss L complain that their claim to QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) for water damage at their 
property has been unfairly declined.
They also complain that the customer service that they received at the time of their claim 
was not acceptable.
There are several parties and representatives of QIC involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to QIC.
What happened
Mr K and Miss L bought a property on 23 September 2020. They bought home insurance on 
the same day. 
Mr K began to undertake decoration and upgrades to the property so that the family could 
move in and Miss L and her two children moved into temporary accommodation so that this 
could be completed.
 
On 30 September/1 October 2020 A pipe connected to the toilet in the bathroom of the 
house leaked and caused water damage in the house.  
Miss L contacted QIC, to make a claim on the insurance policy and an engineer attended the 
property to assess the claim.
 
After the engineer had attended a message was received on the on-line customer portal by 
Miss L to say that the engineers had been instructed to start work on the property. After this 
message was received Miss L was unable to log on to the portal and after contacting QIC on 
the phone was told that the claim was now with the insurer. Miss L continued to make daily 
phone calls to get an update on progress of the claim without success, so Miss L made a 
complaint about the lack of communication while the claim was being processed. 
In response the insurer sent an email to Miss L to say that they were investigating the claim 
on the policy as it may be void due to the renovation works.
Miss L was then informed by phone that the claim had been rejected due to the property 
being unfurnished and had no bathroom. Miss L asked for the claim to be looked at again.
A few days later Miss L contacted QIC to check up on review of the decision to reject the 
claim and was told on this call that it had been decided to progress the claim and that the 
work would start. 
After one more week of attempts to contact the insurer for a progress update, Miss L was 
told that the claim was declined. A letter was sent to confirm that the claim was declined due 
to the property being unfurnished at the time of the leak and referred them to the exclusion in 
the policy for loss whist a building is unfurnished. 
An offer of £350 compensation was made for the distress caused in the difficult 
circumstances and £466.66 to reinstate the area of flooring that had been uplifted.
Mr K and Miss L disagree with the claim being rejected and brought the case to our service.
Our investigator looked in to it and considered whether QIC acted fairly in using the 
exclusion of loss or damage while the buildings are unoccupied or unfurnished and 
concluded that the claim was fairly declined by QIC. The investigator also concluded that the 
£350 offered by QIC to recognise the inconvenience caused is fair. 
As Mr K and Miss L are unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to 
me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall reply to the insurance policy being declined and the complaint about customer service 
separately.
Declined claim
The policy states the definition of unfurnished as  without enough furniture and furnishings 
for normal living purposes.
I can see that QIC reviewed the images of the property and the detail of the furniture that 
was in place and were of the opinion that the exclusion in the policy for loss whilst the 
building is unfurnished was valid, so the claim was declined.
I have considered this exclusion alongside the evidence submitted I agree that there was 
very little furniture in the house. Miss L says in her testimony that the only furniture was 
chair, a mattress, and a carpet in the living room plus a cooker, fridge and microwave.  I 
accept that the definition of normal living could be open to interpretation but in my opinion 
the house was not in a suitable condition that could be classed as normal living purposes. 
So, I agree that the decision to decline the claim using the exclusion of loss or damage 
while the buildings are unoccupied or unfurnished was reasonable.
Although the claim was declined, QIC did pay £466.66 to Mr K and Miss L to reinstate the 
area of flooring uplifted during the initial assessment of the drying requirements.
It is very unfortunate that the leak happened whist they were undertaking decorating works 
in their new property and I appreciate that Mr K and Miss L are likely to be very disappointed 
with my decision, but I am satisfied that that the exclusion has been fairly and reasonably 
applied by QIC.
Customer service
From the initial date of claim on 1 October 2020 to the final response from QIC to confirm 
that the claim was finally declined 3 November 2020, was a total of just over one calendar 
month.
During this time there is no doubt to me that the lack of contact from QIC to Miss L was not 
acceptable. There were instances of delays in QIC calling back, some information not being passed on and conflicting information being given about whether the claim was to be paid or 
to be declined. All of these caused distress and worry to Mr K and Miss L whilst the claim 
was being decided and could have been avoided. 
QIC have admitted that the claim took slightly longer than it would anticipate to get to a 
decision and that the communication could have been more consistent and understandable  
They offered £350 compensation in recognition of the issues experienced and I consider that  
is a fair and reasonable offer in relation to the distress caused by the delay in making the 
claim decision.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons that I have given my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman