DRN-3015603
The complaint
Mr B says Santander UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
his mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage around 1994. It was paid for 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It was taken out in a branch.
I sent Mr B and Santander a provisional decision on 5 August 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Mr Bs PPI policy was most likely mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
Mr B detailed how he wasnt given the option to turn down PPI. He explained that the adviser 
told him it was required as he was a first-time buyer, and they would only provide quotations 
with PPI included in the mortgage. He says the adviser told him their hands were tied and he 
had to accept a policy to get the mortgage. So Mr B says he took out the minimum cover 
possible to keep the cost low.
Mr B provided two sets of mortgage quotations he was given, both of which already included 
PPI. On the latter one, the amount of PPI cover had been reduced to the minimum. Mr B 
says he wasnt given any option to pick a mortgage without PPI and so chose the lowest 
amount of cover possible, and that seems consistent with the documents hes sent us.
Ive certainly not seen anything showing that Santander gave Mr B the option to take or turn 
down PPI, nor where it explicitly got his consent to add the policy. And Mr B has been 
consistent and credible in his testimony about the policy not being sold as optional.
So based on the evidence I currently have, I am not reasonably satisfied that Santander 
made it clear to Mr B that he had a choice about buying the policy.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Mr B let us know he didnt 
have any further information to add. Santander responded with some arguments, which Ill 
talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said it was never a requirement to take out PPI with ones borrowing. That could 
well be, but that doesnt mean it made this clear to customers  indeed, we have seen cases 
where Santander did not make it clear PPI was optional. The question is whether it made it 
clear to Mr B here. But based on the evidence Ive got, Im not reasonably satisfied it did.
Similarly, Santander said it wouldnt be possible to set up the policy without Mr Bs consent. 
But again, weve seen cases where PPI has been set up without customers explicit consent, 
including from Santander. Ive got nothing to show that Mr Bs consent was given here.
Santander argued it would have told Mr B the policy was optional and given him sufficient 
time to consider his decision. But it has not provided anything to substantiate this. And, as 
I explained in my provisional decision, the evidence I have seems to support Mr Bs 
testimony that he was only offered mortgage products with PPI already included.
Santander argued that certain policy literature wouldve said there were cancellation rights. 
But first of all, Ive got nothing to show that this literature was given to Mr B, nor that he was 
told it contained information he needed to read, nor that the relevant terms were clearly 
brought to his attention. And secondly, the onus was on Santander to make it clear the policy 
was optional at the point of sale  it was not on Mr B to notice any flaws in the sale and 
cancel the policy after the fact.
Lastly, Santander noted that Mr B had not raised any concerns until this complaint. But thats 
not relevant. Indeed, if Mr B had been given the impression the PPI was compulsory, and 
had believed that to truly be the case, then he wouldnt have known he had a reason to 
complain until PPI mis-selling became public knowledge more recently.
In summary, I dont have any evidence which substantiates Santanders assertions that it 
wouldve made it clear the PPI was optional. Whereas Mr B has given consistent and 
credible testimony that it was not sold as optional, which appears to be supported by the 
evidence he sent in. And theres nothing which shows Santander gave Mr B the option to 
take or turn down PPI, nor which shows it explicitly got his consent to add the policy.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that this 
policy was most likely mis-sold.  
Putting things right
I direct Santander UK PLC to put Mr B in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI.  That means the policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Santander needs to:
Pay Mr B back the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.   HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. Mr B can 
claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint, and direct Santander UK PLC to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman