DRN-4161811
The complaint
Mr R complains that Principality Building Society will not accept electronic transfers into its 
account and that it does not have an alternative to sending One Time Passwords to a mobile 
telephone.
What happened
Mr R says he opened a Principality Individual Savings Account (ISA) in June 2022. He says 
Principality will only accept paper-based transfers into that account which he says is a 
potential security risk. Mr R also says that Principality will only send a One Time Password 
(OTP) to a mobile telephone which is in breach of Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
regulations which would cause him difficulties as he has a poor mobile telephone coverage 
at his home. He would like £300 compensation and for Principality to accept electronic 
transfers as well as comply with its requirements. Mr R says he has been caused anger and 
distress at what he says are Principalitys illegal activities.
Principality says it is not able to accept electronic transfers at present, but that Mr R could 
have attended a branch rather than send it documents. It says it doesnt have an alternative 
method of sending OTPs at present but makes clear in the account opening information that 
a mobile telephone is required. Principality says Mr R closed the account on 28 June 2022 
and it was never funded. It has offered £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr R brought his complaint to us, and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought Principality ought to be able to comply with FCA rules and provide an alternative 
method of sending OTPs. The investigator thought Principality had acted unfairly and 
thought Mr R had closed his account when he realised, he couldnt manage it online. The 
investigator thought Mr R had been caused a significant level of inconvenience and distress 
and so recommended he be paid £150 compensation. The investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint about the funding method used by Principality.
Mr R says there has been a breach of regulations and is extremely upset at what took place.
Principality says the compensation offer is appropriate.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said that Principality had made an appropriate 
compensation offer.
I said I was satisfied that Mr Rs main and initial complaint was about the funding method for 
the ISA. I could see Mr R told us he regarded the funding method as unacceptable and so 
transferred his ISA electronically to another provider. I could see the account appeared to be 
opened at the end of June 2022 and closed on 28 June 2022. So, I was satisfied that Mr R 
had no intention of funding his Principality account as he had no intention of making a paper-
based transfer to it and closed it shortly after opening it. I accepted there was some 
inconvenience to Mr R in opening the account but thought it up to Principality to decide how 
it operates an account and by what methods it allows an account to be funded.
So, I didnt think Principality made a mistake or acted unfairly by telling Mr R that it would 
only accept a paper-based transfer. And thought it was up to Mr R to decide if he wished to 
use that method or not. I agreed with the investigator on that point that it was up to 
Principality to decide when exercising its commercial judgement what account funding 
methods it uses.
I was satisfied this was the first and main issue and it clear that Mr R closed his account due 
to this funding reason. So, I didnt think the issue about the OTPs would ever have affected 
Mr R as he had no intention of funding the account. I accepted Principality ought to comply 
with FCA rules and regulations but said Mr R knows we are not its regulator and so not our 
role to punish it or direct that it complies with its requirements.
I said I didnt think Mr R was caused significant distress and inconvenience and made clear 
this was an account opened for an extremely short time period that the OTP issue would not 
have affected it in any event.
I was satisfied that Principality made a fair and reasonable compensation offer for what I 
thought was a minimal level of inconvenience in circumstances where I didnt think it made a 
mistake about the funding method. I didnt think Mr R suffered any financial loss and was 
able to open a new ISA with, as he says, a higher interest rate. I could see that Principalitys 
offer is based on its inability to offer an alternative to the authentication process and I hoped 
it would confirm if the offer was still available or if it was paid.
Principality hasnt confirmed the compensation position or provided an update on how it 
intends to comply with FCA rules.
Mr R doesnt accept my view and asks that his call to us is listened to. He says he did want 
to deposit his current ISA allowance into a Principality account and says the OTP was only 
apparent after the account was opened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view I reached in my provisional decision.
I make clear to Mr R that I have again listened to his call to us. I appreciate his frustration 
with Principality and its failure to comply with FCA rules and regulations. There is no need 
for me to repeat what our role is here and what we can and cant do.
The key issue is the compensation level. I dont think Mr R was caused such distress and 
inconvenience to justify more than £50 compensation regardless of an intention to deposit 
any money into a new ISA. I think what Mr R would like is for Principality to provide an 
alternative to sending OTPs to a mobile telephone which I accept is what many other 
businesses can now offer. But Mr R is aware that is not a direction I can fairly make in 
circumstances where Principality cant comply with it. I have looked again at the account 
opening information and am satisfied that Principality makes clear that a mobile telephone is 
required to operate the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Principality Building Society has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £50 which I direct it now pay Mr R, if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman