DRN-3443073
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied for damage to a car when it was returned.
What happened
In October 2017 Mr W acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement provided by MBFS.
Towards the end of the contract Mr W says he spoke to MBFS and he was advised to drop 
off the car at a dealer. Mr W says he drove to the dealer at the start of November 2020 but 
was told it wasnt arranged for the car to be left there, and the staff member he spoke to was 
rude and threatening. Mr W left his car at the dealer and let MBFS know where the car was.
In December 2020 the car was collected and three days afterwards was inspected. 
Following this, MBFS sent Mr W an invoice for the following damage to the car:
Damage Cost
LHF alloy  £ 110.00 
LHR alloy  £ 110.00 
RHR alloy  £ 110.00 
RHF alloy  £ 110.00 
Tyre sealant used £60
LHF door  £   35 
LHR quarter panel - scratch £170
Boot lid - scratch £210
Rear bumper - scratch £210
RHR quarter panel - scratch £170
RHF door - dent  £   35 
The charges totalled £1,330.
Mr W was unhappy with this and complained to MBFS. He said he thought the car had been 
deliberately damaged at the dealer. And he sent a video which he said showed the car when 
it was dropped off.
MBFS issued its final response in April 2021. This explained, in summary, that MBFS had 
reviewed the inspection report and thought all of the damage was outside of its Vehicle 
Return Standards (VRS) apart from the left hand front door. It said it wouldnt accept Mr Ws 
video as it wasnt time stamped. And it said the collection agent confirmed the car wasnt 
damaged in transit. MBFS said Mr Ws balance was now £1,295.
Mr W was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. He said he had 
spoken to a specific staff member at MBFS who arranged for the car to be dropped at the 
dealer. He said he wouldnt have done this if it wasnt arranged as the dealer was an hour 
from his house. He said he emailed MBFS to let them know the day after. He said he 
thought the car had deliberately been keyed after he left the car at the dealer. And he 
provided a video he says was taken when the car was dropped off.
Our investigator issued an opinion and explained she thought the complaint should be 
partially upheld. She said, in summary, that she thought it was most likely it had been 
arranged for Mr W to drop off the car at the dealer. She thought all of the damage fell outside 
of fair wear and tear guidance. But, she thought the video provided by Mr W showed that the 
damage to the LHR quarter panel wasnt there when he dropped off the car. So, she thought 
this charge should be removed. She also said she thought the other damage most likely 
happened when Mr W had the car.
MBFS disagreed with the view. It said it had reviewed the video and said while the damage 
couldnt be seen, the video was taken in poor conditions while the car was wet and dirty, and 
the area had a lot of reflections in. So, it didnt accept this showed the car wasnt damaged.
Mr W was also unhappy with the view. He said, in summary, that the video showed all of the 
scratches werent there. He said the car was spotless when it was returned. And he said he 
wouldve got the car repaired himself had the damage been there when it was given back.
Our investigator got in touch with both parties and let them know what they had said didnt 
change her opinion. MBFS then said it would agree to remove the charge for the LHR 
quarter panel. Mr W remained unhappy. He said it was outrageous to only remove one 
charge.
The case was then passed to me to decide. I asked MBFS for some further comments about 
what happened when the car was dropped off. It sent me some communication from the 
dealer, sent the day after the car was dropped off. This said the dealer tried to confirm some 
details with Mr W when he returned the car but he refused, and was aggressive and rude 
towards staff.
I sent Mr W and MBFS a provisional decision on 5 April 2022. My findings from this decision 
were as follows:
Mr W complains about charges applied at the end of a hire purchase agreement. Entering 
into consumer credit contract such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I 
can look into Mr Ws complaint against MBFS.
What I need to consider here is whether the damage to the car falls outside of fair wear and 
tear guidance. If I think it does, I then need to think about whether its fair to charge Mr W for 
this under the specific circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly thought about whether MBFS could charge Mr W for damage. Looking at the 
agreement he took, this says:
you must return the vehicle in line with the Vehicle Return Standards
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle
So, considering this, I think Mr W agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the VRS 
and he agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. So, Ill go on to consider if the charges were fairly applied. As well as the VRS, Ive also 
considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear 
and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful 
benchmark when considering whats fair and reasonable.
In relation to wheels, the VRS says the following is unacceptable:
Scuff (sic) chips and scratches exceeding 25mm
The BVRLA says:
Scuffs of up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable
Looking at the photos of the wheels, Im satisfied all of these have significant damage 
totalling over 50mm on the rim and also damage to the spokes. It follows Im satisfied this 
damage was present and fell outside of fair wear and tear.
In relation to dents, the VRS says the following is acceptable:
Minor dents, typically those caused by door-to-door contact, provided that:
a) They are less than 13mm (1/2) in diameter
The BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken
Looking at the photo of the right hand door, Im satisfied there is a clear dent over 15mm in 
diameter. It follows I think this damage falls outside of fair wear and tear.
In relation to scratches on the bodywork, the VRS says the following are acceptable:
Light surface scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by polishing/touch 
up
The BVRA says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out
Looking at the photos of the LHR quarter panel, there is a very obvious, lengthy scratch 
running along the panel that is many times over 25mm in length.
Looking at the photos of the boot lid, there is a deep looking scratch that is around 150mm 
long. 
Looking at the photos of the RHR quarter panel, there is a scratch of around 30mm. 
It follows that Im satisfied all of these areas of damage fall outside of the fair wear and tear 
guidance.
In relation to scratches on the bumper, the VRS additionally says the following is acceptable:
Scuff marks up to 50mm (2), which do not adversely affect the overall appearance of your vehicle
Looking at the photos of the bumper I can see a collection of scratches or scuffs. Im 
satisfied these are both over 50mm and affect the overall appearance of the car. It follows 
Im satisfied these fall outside of fair wear and tear.
In relation to the tyre sealant, the BVRLA says:
The emergency tyre inflation kit, if supplied when new, should be in full working order, 
serviceable and ready for use
The inspection report noted that the tyre sealant had been used. And the inspector 
specifically took a photo of the item. So, on balance, Im satisfied this wasnt ready for use, 
and so falls outside of the BVRLA guidance.
So, in summary, based solely on the condition of the car when it was returned, I think all of 
the damage MBFS charged for falls outside of fair wear and tear. I now need to consider if 
there is any other evidence that makes me think it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to charge 
Mr W for this.
Ive firstly considered the video Mr W sent in. Our investigator felt this video showed some of 
the damage wasnt present when the car was dropped off. Ive carefully thought about this. 
But, I disagree here. The video quickly walks around the car without focusing on any 
particular area. The video is low resolution. And the car is very wet, appears dirty and the 
lighting means there are a lot of reflections in the paintwork.
Having considered this video, I dont believe I can tell from it whether the damage was 
present or not. So, Im not putting any weight on this evidence when making my decision.
That being said, I do need to think about the overall situation and what Mr W, and MBFS, 
says happened.
Mr W has been very consistent in saying it was agreed with MBFS to drop off the car at the 
dealer. MBFS say this wasnt agreed. Mr W says staff at the dealer were rude and 
threatening towards him when he dropped off the car. MBFS say the dealer told it Mr W was 
rude and aggressive towards its staff.
Clearly, there are two completely contradictory versions of events here. But, I dont think I
need to make a finding about which I think is most likely to have happened. Thats because,
whatever occurred, Ive seen evidence MBFS knew the car had been left at the dealer the
day after it was dropped off. I appreciate there seems to have been an issue with the V5.
But, it hasnt provided any evidence about the condition of the car such as photos, videos,
an inspection report or any testimony from the dealer until over six weeks later. Given how
obvious some of the damage was, which Ill come on to, I might have also expected the
dealer to mention this to MBFS when it emailed about the situation.
Because of the timescale here, I think, on balance, some of the damage might have 
occurred after Mr W left the car at the dealer. Mr W has been very consistent in his belief 
that the car was damaged with a key  and it does appear this could possibly have been the 
case looking at the photos of the car.
That being said, I dont agree with Mr W that the car was likely spotless when it was 
dropped off. I say this as from the photos, I believe the damage to the wheels was historic  
there is significant damage to all wheels that does not look recent. The damage to the 
bumper appears to have been the result of scraping the car rather than anything intentional. The dent to the door also looks like it was likely caused by general use of the car and I 
believe this was likely historic. 
Ive then thought about the scratches to the car. I think that the damage to the LHR quarter
panel and the boot lid was possibly reasonably recent and could have been intentionally
caused. I say this as the scratches are very clean, in areas very unlikely to be impacted
while driving or in general use of the car and look quite deep.
The scratch to the RHR quarter panel is smaller than the others and quite low down. The
angle of the scratch also appears more natural than the others. I think on balance this was
most likely historic.
I should point out here very clearly that I am not making a finding that the dealer damaged
the car as Mr W has alleged. And I dont know for sure what happened here. But, on
balance, thinking about all of the evidence including Mr Ws testimony, I havent seen
enough to make me think its most likely the damage to the LHR quarter panel and boot lid
was there when Mr W left the car at the dealer.
Given the car wasnt looked at for six weeks following this, I find it wouldnt be fair and
reasonable to charge Mr W for this damage. But, I think its most likely the other damage
was historic and most likely happened when Mr W had the car. So, I think these charges
should stand.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further information or evidence. 
MBFS responded and said it agreed with my decision.
Mr W came back and made various points in response to my decision for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W said in response to my provisional decision that he accepted the damage to the alloys 
and the RHF door dent, along with the charge for the tyre sealant. So, I wont comment on 
these further.
Mr W questioned some of the amounts charged and pointed out he didnt think the bumper 
scuff should be charged at the same rate as some of the larger damage. Ive carefully 
thought about what Mr W said here. I understand his point that the specific damage may 
cost differing amounts to put right. But, Mr W agreed to be charged for the consequent 
reduction in the value of the car due to the damage when it was resold. 
It isnt possible for MBFS to know precisely what specific damage would reduce the value by 
what exact amount. So, it needs to estimate  and the key thing is that I dont think the 
amounts charged for the damage are excessive in this case. So, I dont think MBFS needs to 
take any action here.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr W said about the damage to the RHR quarter panel 
and the bumper that he didnt accept. Having reviewed all of the evidence again, and in 
particular having once more reviewed all of the photos of these areas, I still think, on 
balance, that this damage was most likely historic and occurred when Mr W had the car. It 
follows that I still think its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr W for these.Mr W also said he thought he should be compensated for his time and the stress caused. 
Ive considered whether any payment should be made by MBFS for distress and 
inconvenience. But, its important to note that I only think it would be reasonable to consider 
this in relation to what Ive found MBFS actually did wrong here  not the overall impact of 
the situation on Mr W. In other words, I can consider an award for the distress caused by 
MBFS charging for two areas of damage that, on balance, I think it should not have. 
Considering this, while I do understand this wouldve had an impact on Mr W, I dont think 
this would be enough to say MBFS needs to make any further award here.
Ive considered everything else Mr W said in response to my provisional decision. Having 
thought about this, along with everything else on the case again, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld. And, I still think it would be fair and reasonable for MBFS to remove the 
charges for the damage to the LHR quarter panel and the boot lid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited to put things right by doing the following:
Remove the charge for the LHR quarter panel - £170
Remove the charge for the boot lid - £210
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman