DRN-4006044
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W have complained about the settlement received from AWP P&C SA when 
making a claim under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
The details are well known to the parties so I wont repeat them here. In summary Mr W 
dislocated his hip on the second day of Mrs and Mr Ws cruise. Unfortunately he was 
admitted to hospital and when discharged returned home with Mrs W by train. AWP admitted 
Mrs and Mr Ws claim but only settled it in part.
Our investigator recommended that the claim be upheld. She asked AWP to settle to claim 
for six missed nights rather than four and for all aspects of the claim to be considered in line 
with the policy terms. She also recommended that AWP pay Mrs W and Mr W £350 in 
compensation.
AWP accepted the recommendation and explained that there had been miscalculations to 
date. It also explained that airport tax duty was not covered, nor was food covered under 
additional expenses  only accommodation and transport. It also said that cattery fees had 
been paid in error.
AWP provided some clarification of amounts paid. However there was £195.80 outstanding 
which AWP said wasnt covered as there was no medical necessity to cover Mrs Ws travel. 
Our investigator recommended that it should be paid as Mr W needed the assistance of Mrs 
W because of his injury.
AWP didnt agree. As no agreement has been reached on this point the matter has been 
passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the representations made I agree with the conclusion of our 
investigator for these reasons:
Mr W suffered an unforeseen bodily injury. Emergency medical and associated 
expenses are covered under Section 2 of the policy. This is not disputed. However I 
agree that AWP should breakdown the payments made to Mr and Mrs W for clarity.
Reasonable additional expenses are covered for a relative, in accordance with the 
policy terms. I agree that this doesnt include food. However given the circumstances 
I find that it would be fair to cover Mrs Ws travel expenses. Both Mr and Mrs W were 
disembarked from their cruise and without doubt Mr W would have needed 
assistance due to the nature of his injury. He was taken by ambulance which left Mrs 
W with all the luggage. I appreciate that AWP didnt have the opportunity to pre-
authorise this expense, nevertheless for the reason given Im satisfied that it would 
be fair and reasonable to reimburse it now. 
I am satisfied that this matter has caused unnecessary stress and inconvenience to 
Mr and Mrs W for which compensation is merited. AWP has agreed to pay £350, and 
I find this sum is fair in the circumstances.
Mr W has raised other issues concerning the policy, but in this decision I am only 
able to deal with matters already considered by AWP.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to:
Settle the claim in full in line with the policy terms, to include Mrs Ws travel 
expenses.
Set out in full a breakdown of the sums paid.
Add interest to the settlement at the simple rate of 8% per annum from registration of 
the claim until settlement.
Pay Mrs M and Mr M £350 in compensation (if not paid already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman