DRN-3086166
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) gave them incorrect information 
about the balance left on their mortgage and when it would be paid off, which led them to 
spend money on other things and meant they were unable to invest as theyd planned.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M have a mortgage with Co-op that allows them to make overpayments to 
reduce the capital balance by up to 10% a year. 
In January 2021 Mrs M contacted Co-op to make an overpayment. At the time theyd 
overpaid by around £10,290, which they subsequently increased to around £13,000. Co-op 
confirmed if Mr M and Mrs M made the next two contractual monthly payments (CMP), those 
payments and the amount theyd overpaid so far would clear the mortgage.
Mrs M called Co-op again in March as the CMP was higher for that month than expected. 
She found out there was a balance of around £8,000 remaining on the account. Co-op 
initially disagreed theyd given Mrs M misleading information. But they later accepted they 
had, apologised, and offered £150 compensation. 
Mr M and Mrs M thought Co-ops offer of compensation was inadequate for several reasons. 
Based on the January call they had bought items on their credit card which theyd intended 
to pay off in April when they thought theyd no longer need to make CMPs. Theyd also 
budgeted for other expenditure. Since they had to carry on making CMPs, they were worried 
about their financial situation. Mrs M was also unhappy when, at first, Co-op didnt accept 
theyd given her inaccurate information in January about the mortgage balance. 
Our investigator agreed Co-op had made a mistake, but they felt the compensation Co-op 
offered was appropriate in the circumstances. Since Mr M and Mrs M didnt accept that view, 
their complaints been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and Mrs M feel very strongly the compensation offered by Co-op wasnt enough to put 
things right for them. Theyre unhappy they were misled by Co-op in January 2021; that   
Mrs Ms understanding of what Co-op told her was challenged; and that Co-op didnt confirm 
in writing the mortgage wouldnt be paid off in March. 
I agree the January call led Mrs M to think she and Mr M wouldnt need to make any CMPs 
after March. Co-op acknowledge they made a mistake by failing to let Mrs M know when the 
mortgage would be repaid in full if they continued to make the CMP. But I understand it will 
have been disappointing that Co-op didnt initially accept that. And Id expect Co-op to have 
acknowledged their mistake straight away. I think Mr M and Mrs M knew the position on their 
mortgage by March, so the lack of written confirmation, whilst disappointing, didnt impact 
them further. What I need to consider is how Mr M and Mrs M can be put back into the 
position they would have been in if Co-op hadnt made a mistake. 
Mr M and Mrs M say they had to pay seven months of CMP totalling around £9,800 that they 
werent expecting. But their obligation to make those payments wasnt the result of the 
inaccurate information Co-op gave them in the January 2021 call or later calls in March. 
They had to make their CMP under the terms and conditions of their mortgage until the 
mortgage had been paid off. What Co-op misled them about was when that would happen. 
But that doesnt mean Co-op need to reimburse those CMPs.
Ive thought carefully about whether Co-ops apology and offer to pay £150 compensation is 
a fair way to compensate Mr M and Mrs M for the distress and inconvenience theyve clearly 
been caused by the mistake Co-op made.
I understand it will have been disappointing for them to find out they had several more 
mortgage payments to make until the mortgage was paid off. Theyd used some money to 
pay for other things and planned to invest in their pensions on the understanding they 
wouldnt have to make any more mortgage payments after March 2021. I accept they were 
worried about how theyd pay their credit card bill and their plans to invest were delayed 
several months, although Mr M and Mrs M havent told us about any wider financial 
implications. 
Bearing everything in mind, on balance, I think the compensation Co-op offered fairly reflects 
the impact of their mistake on Mr M and Mrs M. So, whilst I know it will be disappointing for 
Mr M and Mrs M, I wont be asking Co-op to do anything further. Since Co-op had already 
apologised and made the offer of compensation before Mr M and Mrs M complained to this 
service, I dont uphold their complaint. 
Co-op told this service in June the offer of £150 compensation remained open for Mr M and 
Mrs M to accept. Id encourage Co-op to make that payment should Mr M and Mrs M wish to 
accept it now.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman