DRN-3064400
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how The Prudential Assurance Company Limited processed 
surrender requests for two investment bonds she held with them. 
What happened
On 23 October 2020 Mrs S independent financial adviser (the IFA) working on her behalf 
emailed Prudential with surrender forms for two investment bonds. On 29 October 2020 the 
IFA received a letter from Prudential asking for clarification on one of the bonds saying the 
form wasnt clear about whether it was a full or partial surrender. The same day the IFA 
emailed two more surrender forms completed with the numbers as requested. 
Upon receipt of the forms on 29 October 2020 Prudential surrendered both bonds that day 
and wrote to the IFA soon after to confirm this. In between that time Prudential sent a letter 
saying that one bond had been surrendered on 28 October 2020, which has caused some 
confusion, and they say was issued in error. 
The IFA complained on behalf of Mrs S saying that the bonds should have been surrendered 
on 23 October 2020 and the delay in doing so had led to a financial loss. Prudential looked 
into what happened and were satisfied they completed the process correctly so didnt uphold 
the complaint. Remaining unhappy the IFA brought Mrs S complaint to this service on her 
behalf. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. Whilst acknowledging the 
disappointment the delay caused, overall they thought Prudential acted correctly and didnt 
hold them liable for seeking clarification about the surrender. Mrs S didnt accept the 
outcome and the IFA provided some more information and reasons about why they felt 
errors were made. Our investigator considered all of this but still thought Prudential acted 
reasonably. Mrs S disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The IFA working on Mrs S behalf has provided a lot of information about this complaint and 
its clear how strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure Mrs S that Ive read 
and considered everything thats been submitted even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive 
summarised what happened which reflects the informal nature of this service. 
I think the main thing for me to consider here is whether I think Prudential acted fairly and 
reasonably by seeking clarification about the surrender of the bonds. And I think they did.
When Prudential received the surrender forms they say it wasnt clear whether it was a 
partial or full surrender. And I can see why. The form was completed with the seven digital 
alphanumeric account number for the bond along with three digits representing one segment 
of the bond. As the bond is broken into twenty segments, and the number for only one of 
those segments was on the form which asked for a full surrender of the whole bond, I can 
see why clarification was needed as this was conflicting information. 
The IFA says he emailed forms for both bonds on 23 October 2020, and Ive no reason to 
doubt this, but Prudential only wrote back about one. This does seem odd if both forms were 
attached to the same email. However I dont think it makes a material difference as both 
forms were completed in the same way which needed clarification. 
When both satisfactorily completed forms were received by Prudential on 29 October 2020 
the bonds were surrendered on the same day. So I think action was taken quickly, and this 
was confirmed in writing the next day. Mrs S and the IFA say this shouldve happened on 
23 October 2020 when the forms were first emailed; but I cant agree thats the case as Ive 
explained above. 
The IFA has said that on a previous occasion for other clients he received different 
information about how the numbers should be written. Its not my place to say what 
happened on that occasion, and I must base my decision on what happened here with the 
forms for Mrs S. And I think Prudential rightly sought clarification of the surrender.
Prudential issued a letter about the surrender of one of the bonds on 28 October 2020 which 
they say was done in error. Mrs S has questioned this error saying the surrender value on 
that letter should be what is received. I can see why this letter caused some confusion but 
looking at what happened Im satisfied it was issued in error. The satisfactorily completed 
forms werent received until 29 October 2020, and its on that date the surrender was 
processed for both bonds. So I think the surrender was processed properly. 
Having considered everything that happened Im satisfied Prudential acted fairly and 
reasonably when processing the surrender of the bonds. Thats not to say there werent 
problems which caused a delay; as I think there were. But I dont think this was due to any 
errors made by Prudential.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman