DRN-1205708
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy about the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) dealt with a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms R was involved in a road traffic accident and made a claim to Ageas under her policy. 
Unfortunately, her vehicle couldnt be repaired. So, Ageas made a settlement offer to Ms R 
of £7,821. 
Ms R complained to Ageas because she thought its offer was too low as it didnt allow her to 
replace her car with a suitable equivalent. She was also unhappy about the customer 
service shed received from Ageas. Ageas said its valuation was fair and based on the make 
and model of Ms Rs vehicle, taking account of its mileage, age and condition. Ageas 
accepted thered been a delay in the recovery of the vehicle and offered £150. 
Ms R didnt agree with Ageas response and referred her complaint to our service. An 
investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He looked at how Ageas 
calculated the valuation of Ms Rs car and checked the trade guides independently. He 
found Ageas offer to be fair, and in line with our approach in cases like this. He also felt the 
£150 offered for the late recovery of the vehicle was enough. 
Ms R didnt accept our investigators findings and so her complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. Ms R questioned the validity of the trade guides used to value the 
car and whether Ageas had met its obligations under the policy terms and conditions. She 
also raised general concerns about the insurance industry. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I know 
this will be very disappointing for Ms R as this has been a difficult time for her. But Id like to 
take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In looking at this complaint Ive considered the relevant terms and conditions of Ms Rs 
policy. When a vehicle cant be repaired the policy says it will offer to pay the customer the 
 "market value" of the vehicle. This is defined in the policy as:
"The cost of replacing the car with one of a similar age, type, mileage and condition 
immediately before the loss or damage happened." It's unfortunate Ms Rs been unable to find a suitable replacement vehicle for the money 
Ageas is offering. But under the policy terms, Ageas isnt required to provide a sum to pay 
for a vehicle Ms R considers suitable  rather it needed to make an offer to reflect the value 
of her car at the time of damage. 
Its not my role to provide an exact valuation of the car. Instead Im required to decide 
whether or not the value reached by Ageas is fair and reasonable. In order to reach this 
decision, Ive reviewed a number of trade guides. And I think its fair to use these trade 
guides as theyre based on likely selling prices, rather than advertised prices of alternative 
vehicles provided by Ms R, as these are likely to be higher to allow for a process of 
negotiation.
Ageas reviewed the following trade guides which gave these values:
Glass's: £7,560
Cazana: £9,000
CAP: £6,903
Parkers: £6,175
As part of his investigation, the investigator reviewed the following trade guides which gave 
these values: 
Glass's: £7,570
Cazana: £8,802
CAP: £6,903
Parkers: £6,900
I can see the trade guides provided by Ageas and by the investigator vary, as do the prices 
of the same make and model of the vehicle across the country. Ive seen evidence to show 
the valuation offered by Ageas took account of Ms Rs vehicles age, mileage and condition. 
So, Im satisfied the trade guides it obtained were based on the correct information.  
When looking at the trade guides, I generally consider the average value is fair. If one value 
is significantly higher or lower than the others, it shouldnt be included as it could be 
considered unreliable. Whilst the higher value in Ageas valuations is more than £1,500 
higher than the next highest value, Ageas chose to ignore the lowest value and calculated 
the average of the remaining three to reach an offer of £7,821. This seems very fair to me 
and has resulted in a higher valuation than if an average of all the values had been used.
Its also worth noting that the average of all four valuations obtained by the investigator 
comes to £7,544 - which is below what Ageas has offered. So, taking all this into account, 
and in the absence of any evidence from Ms R that persuades me otherwise, Im satisfied 
Ageas offer of £7,821 fairly reflects the value of Ms Rs car at the time of damage, and so I 
wont be asking it to increase it.
Ms Rs mentioned several concerns about the general customer service shes received from 
Ageas. This includes the cost of a hire car after the accident, out of pocket expenses, as well 
as concerns about the actions of the third-party insurer.  As weve already explained to Ms R, the cost of the hire car and the out of pocket expenses 
arent covered by her motor insurance policy with Ageas. Ms R might want to contact the 
third-party insurer and the car hire company about her concerns. Under the FCAs Dispute 
Resolution Rules, we cant look at any complaint Ms R might have about the third-party 
insurer as she isnt their customer.  As such, Ive not considered these concerns as part of 
my review. 
Ageas accepted it was responsible for the delay in recovering the vehicle. Its apologised to 
Ms R and paid her £150. This seems fair to me and in line with what Id expect to see in 
similar cases. So, I wont be asking Ageas to do any more. 
Ms R also raised several concerns about the insurance industry in general, as well as the 
methods used for determining the market value of a vehicle. These arent issues on which 
I can comment. My review has focused on the specifics of Ms Rs claim to Ageas. And 
looking at everything thats happened, Im satisfied Ageas dealt with her claim fairly and in 
line with the policy terms.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman