DRN-2597674
The complaint
Miss M complains about Vanquis Bank Limited and their decision to approve her application 
for a credit card account. She also complains about an increase to her credit limit.
What happened
In July 2016, Miss M applied for a credit card with Vanquis. She submitted her initial 
application online before discussing it further on a phone call.
Miss M stated her personal income to be £20,000 per year, with a total household income of 
£36,000. Vanquis completed a credit check and approved Miss Ms application, providing 
her with a credit limit of £500.
In November 2016, Vanquis increased Miss Ms credit limit to £1000. They say they based 
this increase on Miss Ms management of her account, where she was paying more than the 
minimum monthly payment on average.
But some time after, Miss Ms personal circumstances changed, and she fell into financial 
difficulty. This meant she was unable to meet her minimum monthly payments. Her account 
was eventually sold to a third-party company, who Ill refer to as L, after shed missed 
several payments on the account.
In November 2020, Miss M raised a complaint with Vanquis. She said Vanquis had failed to 
complete proportionate checks when they offered her the credit card. In particular, she felt 
Vanquis shouldve asked for proof of her income. She said if they had, Vanquis wouldve 
realised the credit card was unaffordable and wouldnt have given her the account. She also 
felt Vanquis decision to increase her credit limit was irresponsible and by doing so, they 
placed her into further financial difficulty. So, she wanted Vanquis to refund her the interest 
charges and the late payment fees shed incurred.
Vanquis didnt agree. They felt theyd completed checks that were proportionate to the credit 
limit they offered. They thought they acted fairly when relying upon the income information 
Miss M provided them. And they thought the increase in limit was fair, as Miss M had been 
managing her account well. 
They explained they offered credit to customers with a negative credit history in order to give 
them an opportunity to improve their credit score. So, they didnt think the information on 
Miss Ms credit file automatically meant they shouldve declined the application. They 
explained there had been no defaults in the previous 15 months before the application was 
made. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and because of this, they didnt think 
they needed to do anything more. Miss M remained unhappy with this response, so she 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought the checks 
Vanquis completed were proportionate to the credit limit they provided in the approved 
application. And he thought they acted fairly when relying on the income information Miss M 
provided. He also thought Vanquis decision to increase the limit was fair, based on the way 
Miss M had been managing the account. So, although he recognised the financial difficulty 
Miss M found herself in, he didnt think this was due to an error Vanquis made. And because 
of this, he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Miss M didnt agree. She maintained her view that Vanquis shouldve asked for proof of her 
income and that if they had, they wouldnt have provided her with credit. And if they hadnt, 
she felt shed be in a better financial position. As Miss M didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Miss M. Im aware Miss M 
was unable to meet the minimum monthly repayments. And by attempting to do so, it left 
Miss M in a difficult financial situation. Because of this, I can understand why Miss M feels 
the credit card and its associated limit was unaffordable. And so, I can appreciate why she 
feels this was the fault of Vanquis. But for me to say Vanquis have done something wrong, 
Id need to be satisfied they failed to conduct checks that were proportionate to the limit they 
were providing Miss M. Or that they failed to assess the information they had available 
reasonably and if they had of done so, they wouldnt have offered Miss M the credit card. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case. 
I think its important to explain there isnt a set list of checks that a lender such as Vanquis is 
expected to make before they lend to a customer. When deciding complaints of this nature, I 
only need to be satisfied that the checks they did make were proportionate to the amount 
they were offering Miss M.
Ive seen Miss M listed her household income as £36,000. And Ive listened to the call she 
held with Vanquis where she confirmed her own personal income was £20,000 a year. And 
on top of this, she confirmed she didnt expect her circumstances regarding her employment 
and finances to change in the next six months.
I understand Miss M feels Vanquis shouldve checked this information was correct. But it 
was Miss M who provided this information and she confirmed on the call to Vanquis that it 
was accurate. So, I dont think there was anything to suggest to Vanquis this information 
wasnt true, or that they should make further enquiries around it. 
Id only expect Vanquis to ask for proof of income if the amount Miss M wanted to borrow 
was fairly high in comparison to the income she declared. But Ive seen Vanquis provided an 
initial credit limit of £500. This limit was much smaller than Miss Ms declared yearly income 
and because of this, I dont think Vanquis needed to do any further checks around this.
And Ive seen Vanquis also completed a credit check before approving the application. This 
allowed them the chance to assess Miss Ms credit history and to ensure she didnt have 
large amount of outstanding debts that would impact the affordability on the card.So, I think the checks Vanquis made were proportionate to the initial limit they provided Miss 
M when they approved the application. And because of this, I cant say they did anything 
wrong.
I then considered how Vanquis assessed the information they had available to ensure they 
looked at this fairly for both the initial application and the credit limit increase.
Ive seen the credit report they assessed when approving the application. While this shows 
that Miss M had defaulted on accounts in the past, this was some time before the application 
was made. And at the time of the application, Miss M had around £300 worth of outstanding 
debt. Its important to note that Vanquis actively look to provide credit to customers who may 
struggle to obtain credit elsewhere, in order to assist them with improving their credit history. 
So, while I appreciate Miss M had defaulted on accounts previously, and this was shown on 
her credit file, I dont think this meant Vanquis shouldve automatically declined the 
application.
The income Miss M provided suggested she had a stable yearly income. And the credit 
report showed she had been managing well a low level of existing debt. Because of this, I 
think Vanquis acted fairly when offering Miss M the chance to improve her credit rating with 
a credit card with a small credit limit. So, I cant say they did anything wrong at this point.
Ive then considered the limit increase in November 2016. Ive seen at the time Miss Ms 
outstanding balance was less than the credit limit. And I can see she hadnt exceeded the 
balance limit during the time since shed received the card. Ive also seen she was paying on 
average more than the minimum monthly payment. So, I think this suggested to Vanquis that 
Miss M was managing the account well, and an increase would be affordable. 
And Ive seen Miss M was notified about the increase before it was actioned. She was made 
aware in the notification letter, as well as the initial application call, that she had the right to 
refuse the limit increase if she didnt want it. She was also made aware she could opt out of 
any future increases. I cant see evidence to show Miss M contacted Vanquis to refuse the 
increase or opt out of any increases to begin with. If Miss M thought the increase would be 
unaffordable, Id have expected her to let Vanquis know.
So, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say that Vanquis acted unfairly when 
increasing Miss Ms credit limit. Shed shown she was able to manage the account 
effectively, and the increased limit was still relatively low when it was compared to her yearly 
income and her other outstanding debts. Because of this, I dont think Vanquis need to do 
anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss M was hoping for. And I recognise that she may still 
find herself in financial difficulty which has led from the credit card Vanquis provided. But I 
hope it goes some way to explaining how Vanquis assessed the affordability of the credit 
card, and why I dont think they did anything wrong on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Vanquis Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman