DRN-3415036
The complaint
G complains about Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) and the difficulty its faced 
when trying to access its business account.
G has been represented by its director, Mr M, during the complaint. For ease of reference, I 
will refer to the comments raised, and actions taken, by Mr M as if they were made and 
completed by G during the decision.
What happened
G held a business account provided by APS. Before the events complained about, G last 
accessed the account online in June 2020. So, as six months had passed without any 
activity, APS deleted Gs log in details as part of their security processes, where outdated 
details are removed to ensure the safeguarding of accounts.
In August 2021, G attempted to log into its online account. But it was unable to do so, as its 
log in details had been removed. And G was unable to use the forgotten password service, 
as its contact number had changed from the one APS held on their system. So, G sought 
assistance from APS by phone on 19 August. A call back was arranged to verify Gs new 
number, which was attempted on 24 August, without success.
On 1 September, G called APS to reschedule the verification call. And APS completed this 
on 3 September, where the new number was verified, and G was able to reset the account 
password.
On 28 September, G contacted APS again to say despite their previous action, they were 
still unable to access the account. It was identified that a new code key needed to be issued, 
which was sent out the same day. And APS agreed to refund Gs annual charge of £69, as 
they had not used the account since 2020. But G was unhappy with this, so it referred its 
complaint to our service.
G was unhappy with the difficulty it faced when trying to access its account with APS. So, it 
wanted to be compensated for the upset it had been caused. Our service referred this issue 
to APS directly to allow them to issue a response within their own complaint process. And 
APS didnt uphold the complaint. They thought theyd acted fairly when removing Gs log in 
details, and then ensuring access was restored when G requested it in 2021. And they 
thought theyd handled Gs complaint about this fairly. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more.
G didnt agree. It was unhappy with the way in which APS spoke to them on a call held on 21 
October 2021 when discussing its complaint. And it maintained its belief it should be 
compensated for the inconvenience it was caused when not being able to access its 
account. As G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on G. I appreciate G would 
expect to be able to access its account when it wished to do so. So, when it realised it 
couldnt log in and had to go through a verification process to obtain a new password, I can 
understand the difficulty this wouldve caused. But for me to say APS should compensate G 
for this, Id need to be satisfied that G has suffered either a financial loss, or a damage to its 
business reputation. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be important to explain exactly 
what Ive been able to consider. I recognise G has been represented by its director, Mr M, 
throughout this issue and the complaint that followed. But as the account APS provides is in 
Gs name, G is APS customer, not Mr M. So, when deciding the complaint, Ive been unable 
to consider any upset or inconvenience Mr M has suffered, as he isnt the eligible 
complainant in the situation.
So, Ive not been able to consider the upset Mr M was caused by the way in which he was 
spoken to during a call he held with APS in October 2021. And even if I was able to consider 
any upset caused to Mr M, our service is also unable to consider any complaints that relate 
to a business complaint handling as this is an unregulated activity which falls outside of our 
jurisdiction. And from what Ive seen, this call was held to discuss Gs complaint. So, I 
havent thought about this further.
Instead, Ive focused on Gs inability to access its account and the service APS provided G 
around this. 
I can see that between June 2020 and August 2021, G made no attempt to access its 
account online. Nor was the account used for trading purposes. So, APS took the decision to 
remove Gs log in details, in order to protect the security of the account. This action was 
taken as part of APS internal security process. And our service is unable to comment upon, 
or ask businesses to change, internal processes they put in place as they are entitled to 
make their own commercial decisions. Only the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, would be able to comment on this. So, I cant say they did anything wrong here.
I can see once G was made aware of its inability to access its account online, APS acted 
reasonably following each conversation between themselves and G. Following the first call, 
APS called G on two occasions three working days afterwards, in order to complete the 
verification process. I cant see that G answered these calls or responded to them until 1 
September. So, I think APS did all it could within a reasonable time frame to grant G access 
to its online account at this point.
And I can see APS returned Gs call on 1 September within two working days, where the 
verification process was completed. So, as far as APS couldve been aware at the time, they 
believed G would now be able to access the account.
I recognise this wasnt in fact the case. And it appears there was an issue with the code key 
which prevented G from accessing the account. But I cant see that APS were made aware 
of this by G, until 28 September. And I can see a new code key was issued to resolve this 
issue the same day APS were made aware of it. So, I think they acted fairly and reasonably 
in the situation.I also think its reasonable for me to assume that, as G didnt realise the account could still 
not be accessed online until more than four weeks later, that G hadnt intended to use the 
account before. Nor was it prevented from doing so. Because of this, even though I 
recognise there was a delay in access at this point, I dont think G has been impacted in a 
way that means it should be compensated as its incurred no financial loss or damage to 
reputation that Ive been made aware of.
Because of the above, I dont think Im able to say APS acted unfairly and so, I dont think 
APS need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome G, and in particular Mr M, was hoping for. And I 
appreciate that Mr M will have taken time out of his day to speak to APS to fix the issues he 
experienced on behalf of G when trying to access the account online. And I do understand 
why Mr M feels as though he should be compensated for this. But as Ive explained above, 
G is APS customer in this situation, not Mr M. And as G is a limited business, G is unable to 
feel distress and inconvenience. So, I cant say G should be compensated for this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Gs complaint about Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman