DRN-3396992
The complaint
Mr H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has refused to 
award him account benefits.
What happened
Mr H says he applied for an AESEL account in August 2019 to take advantage of two 
benefits namely a companion flight voucher and for referral points for a third party. He says 
he needed to spend £20,000 in the first year to qualify for the voucher. Mr H says he called 
AESEL and was told his account had been approved on 19 September 2019 but says the 
account card had been sent to an incorrect address. He says he wasnt told the account 
benefits deadline would start from 19 September 2019 and says AESEL refused to award 
the referral points or the voucher. Mr H would like both awarded and says it is unfair to start 
the time period from that date.
AESEL says it sent the account card to the address Mr H supplied in the application form. It 
says Mr H wasnt eligible in any event for the referral points as he didnt use a specific link to 
apply for the account and says he wasnt eligible for the voucher or any other benefits as he 
held a previous account with it in the last two years. AESEL says the account card wasnt 
replaced and Mr H first made contact with it in December 2020.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr H provided the address details on the application form and didnt 
think there any record of a replacement card. The investigator in any event didnt think Mr H 
qualified for any account offers as he held a previous account with AESEL which was 
cancelled in April 2020. And thought there was six months between each application made 
from different addresses.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says he was unaware of an earlier account and says 
AESEL should have told him he wasnt eligible at the start. He says to treat the accounts as 
separate is absurd and says the address mistake is clearly a typographical error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint for a 
number of reasons which I will explain.
I am satisfied having looked at AESELs records that Mr H applied for the accounts and he 
was responsible for ensuring the correct address details were inputted. I have not seen any 
evidence AESEL made a mistake in recording Mr Hs address details incorrectly. I have also 
not seen any evidence on those records that a second account card was sent to Mr H but for 
the reasons I will explain I do not think that issue has any impact on my overall decision.
I have looked carefully at AESELs offer terms and conditions. I can see that it is made clear 
that the two offers in question here are only available to new account holders and not to 
those having held an AESEL account in the previous two years. I have looked at AESELs 
records and can see that Mr H applied for an AESEL account in early 2019 some six months 
before the second application. I appreciate Mr H says it is absurd to treat those accounts 
as separate but I disagree and am satisfied Mr H applied for both accounts using different 
addresses. I can also see that Mr H has provided us with an e-mail he sent to AESEL in April 
2019 asking where is account card was. So, I think it ought to have been reasonably clear to 
Mr H that he had previously applied for an AESEL account and by making a new application 
that could not have had any link to the first application. If Mr H didnt receive the first account 
card for the first account, then I would have expected him to have followed that up with 
AESEL rather than applying again for a new account some six months later. 
Im satisfied having looked at AESELs records that the first account was opened, and so Mr 
H wasnt eligible for any account incentives when he applied for the second account. I also 
dont think its AESELs responsibility to have told Mr H that information when it had already 
made that information clear on application.
Overall, Im satisfied that AESEL was entitled to conclude Mr H was not eligible for the 
account benefits due to having a previous account. I also think Mr H did not meat the criteria 
for the referral points as the specific link wasnt used. And that even if Mr H hadnt held the 
previous account then he didnt spend the required money within the required time period in 
circumstances where I am satisfied AESEL didnt make a mistake with the address details.
I appreciate Mr H is unlikely to accept my view and is likely to consider alternative options. I 
find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman