DRN-3404759
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited wont refund the money shes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Miss D found a company selling wholesale clothing items (the seller) on a popular social 
media platform. She contacted the seller and agreed to purchase 200 items of clothing for 
£1,000, to be delivered within 10 days of payment. From her conversations with the seller, 
she was expecting to receive vintage sweatshirts in an almost new condition.
On 17 July 2020, Miss D transferred £1,000 to the seller from her Starling bank account. But 
six weeks later, she says she still hadnt received her order and when she chased the seller, 
they kept making excuses  she was even provided with a tracking number for a parcel 
going to someone else. Eventually, she realised she had been scammed and reported the 
fraud to Starling. Since then, Miss D says that:
the seller became nasty and threatening towards her  they wanted her to withdraw 
her fraud claim.
she has received a package from the seller containing around 60 pieces of         
poor-quality/counterfeit clothing.
she has found evidence of the seller scamming other people.
Starling contacted the beneficiary bank on the same day that Miss D reported the fraud to it, 
but no funds were returned, and Starling declined to reimburse Miss D under the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). It said that it had 
sufficient fraud prevention measures in place, but Miss D didnt take reasonable steps to 
check the payment she was making was genuine. It also said that this matter could be 
considered a buyer-seller dispute.
Miss D was unhappy with Starlings decision not to reimburse her. So, she asked this 
Service to consider her complaint.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. He said that this matter is a civil dispute, 
and civil disputes are not covered by the CRM Code.
Miss D didnt agree with our investigator. In responding, she maintained that the seller is a 
liar and a fraudster, and she provided evidence to show that the seller has engaged in 
criminal activities with other victims.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 15 March 2022. Ill set out what I said below.
Starling has signed up to the CRM Code, and it was in force when Miss D paid the seller. 
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. But the CRM Code is 
quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all APPs. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Ive considered the evidence Miss D has provided  including the messages she sent to and 
received from the seller, pictures of the items of counterfeit/poor-quality clothing she 
received from the seller, and the messages the seller has sent to other individuals. Having 
done so, Im not persuaded that the seller is a legitimate supplier for goods. I acknowledge 
that the seller continued to correspond with Miss D after receiving her payment, and that 
they sent her some items of clothing (albeit not in the condition or quantity that Miss D was 
expecting). This is undoubtedly unusual in cases of fraud. But overall, considering what the 
seller has said and done, Im satisfied that they set out to defraud Miss D.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams, like the one Miss D has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Starling has argued that two of the exceptions apply in this case. Its said that Miss D 
ignored an effective warning it gave during the payment journey and she made the payment 
without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person she was expecting to 
pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the person or business she was 
transacting with was legitimate.
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for 
Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should 
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have an impact 
on the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and APP scam risk identified by 
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the 
Customer.Starling has said that it gave Miss D a sufficient warning and took reasonable steps to help 
her protect herself from financial harm. When Miss D added the seller as a new payee, it 
would have displayed a message which said: 
Could this be part of a scam? If in doubt, just stop here and visit our website to learn more 
about fraud.
And its website clearly refers to the type of scam Miss D fell victim to, saying:
Were all partial to a spot of online shopping  but you should always be careful when youre 
using an online marketplace and not a recognised retailer. Fraudsters will sometimes 
advertise high value items such as designer watches, vehicles and games consoles/the 
latest tech on social media or online marketplaces  remember, if it sounds too good to be 
true, it probably is!! You may also be pressured into making a payment quickly and advised 
that you are unable to make a payment by card or Paypal which offer more protection to the 
payer. You should always be cautious about sending money to an individual you havent 
met, for an item you havent seen  especially if the website doesnt offer payer protection or 
you are asked to bypass normal payment methods on that website.
Miss D has said she doesnt recall Starling giving her a fraud warning. Based on her 
recollections, I think theres a good chance she didnt take the required, extra step of 
manually visiting Starlings website to receive a fraud warning. But even if she did, Im not 
satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were met. Specifically, 
I dont think the warning given was specific or impactful enough to be considered an effective 
warning under the terms of the CRM Code.
The warning doesnt really bring to life what the type of scam Miss D fell victim to looks like 
or highlight the common features of the scam. It mainly refers to purchasing high value items 
from an online marketplace at a price thats too good to be true. This, of course, is not what 
happened in Miss Ds case. She found the seller on a social media platform, agreed a 
seemingly reasonable price for goods she wanted to purchase that werent of high value and 
arranged a bank transfer to the seller. The warning also doesnt set-out the potential 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment if it turns out a scam is underway 
as it is required to do under the CRM Code. Overall, Im not persuaded that the warning is 
likely to have positively affected a customers decision-making in a manner whereby the 
likelihood of the scam succeeding was reduced.
If Starling had brought to life what this type of scam looks like with specific and impactful 
information, and explained the potential consequences of going ahead with the payment, 
then I think this wouldve been important information in the context of this scam that wouldve 
affected Miss Ds decision making.
Ive also thought about whether Miss D had a reasonable basis for belief. Ive considered 
what steps she took to reassure herself about the legitimacy of the transaction, and whether 
it was reasonable for her to proceed with paying the seller.
From the text messages Miss D has sent us, I can see that she requested photos and videos 
of the clothing she could expect to receive from the seller, and her requests were fulfilled to 
her satisfaction. But I can also see that Miss D was aware there were more secure methods 
of paying the seller than bank transfer, and she had reservations about paying the seller in 
this way. But she ultimately decided to proceed with the payment regardless. And I can see 
that when Miss D reported the fraud to Starling, it asked her How did you verify that the 
person you were expecting to pay was genuine? Miss D replied that she Attempted to click 
their website link in their bio on [social media platform] which lead to a dead end and did not 
work, otherwise no attempt was made.Given the reservations Miss D had about paying the seller via bank transfer and that she 
found their website link led to a dead end, I wouldve expected Miss D, or anyone else, to be 
put on guard. But, by her own admission, Miss D didnt carry out any extra checks or make 
any substantial attempts to protect herself as I wouldve expected her to do  such as, for 
example, taking steps to research the seller or verify they were genuine.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Miss D had a reasonable basis for belief in this case.
As Starling failed to provide Miss D with an effective warning and that failure is likely to have 
had a material effect on preventing the scam, but Miss D also lacked a reasonable basis for 
belief in paying the seller, Miss D should be reimbursed 50% of her loss under the provisions 
of the CRM Code.
Finally, Ive considered whether Starling took reasonable steps to recover Miss Ds funds, 
and I think it did. Its evidenced that it contacted the receiving bank on the same day that 
Miss D reported the fraud to it, but no funds have been returned. Im not persuaded that 
Starling couldve taken any further action that wouldve led to the recovery of Miss Ds funds.
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive provisionally decided to uphold this complaint in part and 
instruct Starling to:
reimburse 50% of Miss Ds loss; plus
pay 8% simple interest on that sum from the date that Miss D should have been 
reimbursed under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
In summary, Miss D said:
Starling has still not put in place any extra warnings to prevent others from making 
the same mistake.
She thinks Starling couldve taken further steps to recover her funds  it was aware 
they had been sent to a criminal.
She accepts that she should have made additional checks to verify the seller was 
genuine. But she was young and just starting out with her business venture at the 
time. She had not come across anything like this before or had a negative experience 
which would put her on guard. When she saw the sellers photos and videos of the 
clothing she could expect to receive from them, she was happy that shed found a 
wholesaler that she thought larger shops received their stock from.
When it comes to wholesalers, other people are very secretive in revealing their 
trusted suppliers, or information on their suppliers.
The sellers website link leading to a dead end was not significant to her as other 
wholesalers mainly operate via social media platforms and have websites just to 
showcase photos and provide further information.
She was happy to compromise if that meant building a long-term relationship with a 
new supplier.
The scam has put a strain on her finances, and she would like to be fully reimbursed 
for her loss.
Starling maintained that it had provided Miss D with an effective warning and that she made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for belief, but it agreed to settle the complaint in line 
with my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the scam has had a negative impact on Miss Ds finances, and that she 
would like Starling to fully reimburse her. But in responding to my provisional decision, I dont 
think shes given me any new information which persuades me that Starling should 
reimburse more than 50% of her loss.
As I have previously explained, Im not persuaded that Starling provided Miss D with an 
effective warning on this occasion, and I have seen that Starling did all I would reasonably 
expect it to do to recover Miss Ds funds from the beneficiary account. I wont explore these 
elements further as no new evidence has been provided in this respect.
Miss D has made some further comments about her reasonable basis for belief. I appreciate 
that she was young and inexperienced when she made the payment. And I can see from the 
evidence that her requests for photos and videos of the clothing she could expect to receive 
from the seller were fulfilled to her satisfaction. I dont doubt that this gave her some 
reassurance. But from what Ive seen, she had reservations about paying the seller via bank 
transfer but went ahead with the payment regardless. And I still think she ought reasonably 
to have been put on guard when the sellers website link led to a dead end. Shes said that 
other wholesalers trade via social media platforms and their websites merely showcase 
photos and provide further information, but this is different to a website link not working.
Ultimately, Miss D accepts that she should have made additional checks to verify the seller 
was genuine, and I agree with her. She says she was happy to compromise in order to build 
a long-term relationship with a new supplier, and I can understand why she was willing to 
take the risk involved in sending the payment. But overall, I cant reasonably conclude that 
she had a reasonable basis for belief on this occasion. So, Im still persuaded that she 
should be reimbursed 50% of her loss under the provisions of the CRM Code.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
instruct Starling Bank Limited to:
reimburse 50% of Miss Ds loss; plus
pay 8% simple interest on that sum from the date that Miss D should have been 
reimbursed under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman