DRN-3985133
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as E complains that First Data Europe Limited (First Data) 
treated it unfairly by failing to challenge a number of chargeback claims that were made 
against it. 
In bringing this complaint, E is represented by its director who, Ill refer to as Mr F. 
 
What happened
 Mr F has told us that between December 2019 and June 2020 several chargebacks totalling 
£13,141.10, were raised against E. 
At the time each of the chargebacks was raised, First Data wrote to E to confirm the reasons 
for the chargeback  which included goods not as described, goods/services not 
received, and refund not provided. E was asked to provide evidence to First Data to 
enable them to defend the chargeback. 
According to E, the chargebacks were unjustified because they were raised by various 
customers after it had declined to return their deposits following cancellation by those 
customers of their hotel accommodation bookings. 
E said it didnt agree to refund the deposits on the basis that at the time the accommodations 
were booked, it had made clear to customers in its terms and conditions that the deposits 
were non-refundable. Including, in circumstances of force majeure such as: 
war or threat of war, civil or political action or disturbance, riot, natural disaster, fire, 
epidemic, bad weather, terrorist activity (threatened or actual), military activity, governmental 
or regulatory action, industrial dispute. Act of God, failure of power or machinery, failure of or 
interruption of externally provided services and utilities, and all similar events outside the 
hotel's control.  
E said it was for that reason, and to protect customers from potential loss, it advised them to 
take out travel insurance.
Mr F has told us that on each occasion E was notified of the chargeback, he gathered all the 
relevant evidence and emailed it to First Data so that they could challenge the chargebacks. 
But Mr F doesnt believe First Data did so and complained to them. 
In their final response letter to E, as well as commenting on the chargeback process 
generally, First Data said that undefended, or late defences, could result in chargebacks 
being lost. They said that it was important therefore to engage with First Data to avoid the 
loss of transactions and incur associated fees.
Es complaint remained unresolved, however, and on its behalf Mr F referred it to this 
service. 
Our investigator was satisfied E did provide First Data with evidence to defend the 
chargebacks on Es behalf. But she didnt think there was clear evidence to demonstrate that 
First Data had done so. So, on 16 December 2022 she sent First Data a full list of the 
chargebacks and asked them to provide by 6 January 2023, evidence of their attempt to 
defend each of them and if they made no such attempts, to explain why. 
On 12 and 25 January and on 2 February 2023, the investigator chased First Data for the 
evidence shed requested. But this wasnt provided.
So, having had no response from First Data and in reliance on the evidence to hand, the 
investigator upheld Es complaint. She said she had not been satisfied that First Data did 
challenge the chargebacks. She said in her review of the evidence E provided to First Data, 
she believed had this been provided to the cardholders bank, there was a reasonable 
chance E would have successfully defended the chargebacks. Given her conclusion, the 
investigator recommended the chargeback amounts be refunded to E in full. 
E accepted the investigators recommendation. First Data did not respond. So, the complaint 
has been referred to me for review and final decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When a chargeback is raised, we would expect the merchant acquirer (First Data) to act in 
line with their terms and conditions to ensure the chargeback is handled correctly. I have 
therefore looked at what First Datas policy says to determine whether in relation to the 
chargebacks that were raised against E, they followed their established policy.
The relevant parts of First Datas operating guide say: 
When a chargeback is received, we will debit the disputed amount from your account and 
contact you with details of the card transaction together with the information/documentation 
we require from you and the deadline by which we require it. 
And 
If the information provided is sufficient to warrant a reversal of the chargeback and is within 
the applicable timescale, we will attempt to defend the chargeback. However, reversal is 
contingent upon acceptance by the card issuer under the applicable card schemes 
guidelines..We  will do our best to help you defend a chargeback .
From the information to hand, like the investigator, Im satisfied E provided First Data with 
sufficient evidence to enable them to defend the chargebacks. However, although First Data 
were asked on 16 December 2022, 12 and 25 January 2023 and 2 February 2023 for 
evidence theyd attempted to do so, First Data have not responded with that evidence. 
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (FSMA) and in rules known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).Within these rules DISP 3.5.9 says that the Ombudsman may:
(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the
failure by a party to provide information requested.
DISP 3.5.14 goes on to say:
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint
To date no response has been received, to the various requests made by the investigator for 
evidence First Data attempted to defend the chargebacks which leads me to conclude that in 
all likelihood they made no attempt to do so. Based therefore on what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded that First Data have acted fairly, and in line with their policy.
 
To be clear, Ive considered how the chargebacks were dealt with by First Data in light of the 
policy referred to above. In other words, Ive looked at and thought about First Datas actions 
and in particular, whether they acted fairly and reasonably, within the context of their policy 
in their role as an acquirer, once the chargebacks were raised. Ive not been persuaded they 
did. Ive seen no evidence they did their best to defend the chargebacks and therefore Im 
upholding this complaint.
 
Putting things right
 Im not persuaded First Data acted reasonably in holding E liable for the chargeback 
amounts and they should be refunded to E
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I 
recommend that First Data Europe Limited refunds the chargebacks totalling £13,141.10 
raised against E, plus any fees associated with the chargebacks
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman