DRN-4096052
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service received from Santander UK Plc when making an 
international money transfer.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them all again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T requested an online international money transfer from his account. This was returned 
by the receiving bank due to a problem with the IBAN number. Santander charged £25 for 
the transfer and when the funds were returned Mr T received less than he had sent due to 
differences in the exchange rate and charges from the other bank. 
When sending an international money transfer its up to the sender to ensure that all the 
required details are correct. When the funds arrive at the receiving bank its up to them to 
decide whether to accept the payment based on those details. Here the receiving bank 
returned the funds as they werent happy with the details provided by Mr T.
When coming to this service Mr T said I believe the bank has a responsibility in ensuring that 
the details I provide are correct before they process the transfer, especially given that any 
wrong information can be so costly.  
Looking at all the information provided Ive not seen any evidence that the checking of 
account information is a service Santander offer when a consumer makes a transfer online. 
So I cant say they did anything wrong when sending the transfer using the details Mr T 
input. 
There are fields for required information when making a transfer and all of these were 
completed by Mr T. It seems that some of the information in those fields wasnt accepted by 
the receiving bank, which isnt something I can hold Santander responsible for.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Santander treated Mr T 
fairly and reasonably so wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman
