DRN-2860665
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made under his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J travelled abroad on 10 March 2020. Upon arrival in his destination country he received 
a text message and leaflets containing guidance about Covid-19. He was suffering cold and 
flu -like symptoms and so sought medical advice over the telephone. He was advised to self-
isolate for 14 days in accordance with guidance from the countrys health ministry.
Mr J self-isolated at his familys home for the 14-day period and took some medication to 
treat cold and flu-like symptoms. He says that after about a week these symptoms cleared 
up and he didnt need to seek further medical treatment.
On 24 March 2020 he submitted a claim for Holiday Disruption under his multi-trip travel 
insurance policy, provided through his bank account provider and underwritten by Aviva. 
Aviva declined his claim. It said he hadnt provided any evidence it was medically necessary 
for him to remain quarantined in his accommodation for 14 days. And noted that Mr J hadnt 
submitted a claim for emergency medical treatment. It referred him to an exclusion in his 
policy which says that a claim for Holiday Disruption is not covered where there is no valid 
claim for Emergency Treatment.
Mr J doesnt think it was fair for Aviva to decline his claim on this basis and says it is asking 
for evidence which it is unreasonable to expect him to be able to provide in the 
circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic. He feels he is entitled to payment of a benefit of 
£50 a day for Holiday Disruption for each day he was in quarantine (£50 x 14 days = £700). 
And would also like compensation from Aviva who he feels has accused him of dishonesty. 
Our investigator considered what had happened but didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when declining Mr Js claim. In summary the investigator said that Mr J hadnt 
claimed for any medical expenses associated with his illness, and so he wasnt entitled to 
claim for Holiday Disruption. 
Mr J didnt agree with these findings, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr J will be very disappointed, but Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our 
investigator did here. I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly when its declined Mr Js claim. Ill 
explain why.
When reaching my decision, Ive given regard to industry rules set out by the regulator which 
say that an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject 
a claim.
Avivas policy says it will provide cover for:
Emergency Medical Treatment and Associated Expenses
[]
If you are injured, fall ill, are quarantined or die during your trip, we will cover you, up to
the limits shown below, for:
[]
3. Holiday Disruption
If you are claiming for medical expenses that are covered under this section, we will also pay 
you a benefit of £50 for each full 24 hours for the disruption to your trip if:
a. you are in hospital receiving in-patient treatment for more than 24 consecutive hours; or
b. you are confined to your accommodation on the advice of the treating doctor for more 
than 24 consecutive hours.
This section of the policy also goes on to say:
What is not covered
[]
9. Any claim for Holiday Disruption:
a. where the period in hospital or confined to accommodation is less than 24 consecutive 
hours
b. for any insured person not being treated as an in-patient or confined to their 
accommodation on medical advice
c. where there is no valid claim for Emergency Treatment.
Im very sorry to hear Mr J was not able to enjoy his trip as he had planned. But that doesnt 
automatically mean he has a valid claim under his travel insurance policy. 
The policy sets out the terms and conditions under which Aviva will pay a claim. 
Mr J feels strongly that he is entitled to a benefit of £50 a day for Holiday Disruption under 
the Emergency Medical Treatment and Associated Expenses section of his policy. He 
argues that he meets the criteria set out in sub-section 3b as he was confined to his 
accommodation for 14 days due to a requirement that he self-isolate after experiencing 
symptoms associated with Covid-19. He says he spoke to a medical advice line, and a 
family member also spoke to their doctor on his behalf, and both confirmed that he must 
follow self-isolation guidance.
Aviva doesnt think Mr J has provided enough evidence to substantiate the fact it was 
medically necessary for him to quarantine. And Mr J feels Avivas requests for evidence are 
unreasonable in the circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic. However I dont feel I need to 
make a finding on this point in order make my decision about this complaint. I say this 
because this section of the policy must also be read in conjunction with the exclusions listed 
under the sub-heading What is not covered. 
Exclusion 9c says that a claim for Holiday Disruption is not covered where there is no valid 
claim for Emergency Treatment. 
Whilst I dont doubt what Mr J has told us about experiencing cold and flu-like symptoms that 
can be associated with Covid-19, he didnt need to attend a hospital or clinic for any 
emergency treatment. Rather, he said he was able to take some basic medication to help his 
symptoms at his familys home, as per advice he was given over the telephone. Therefore, whilst I do sympathise with Mr J, I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably 
when its relied on this exclusion to decline Mr Js claim. The Holiday Disruption benefit 
detailed in the policy is only payable in conjunction with a valid claim for emergency medical 
treatment. And although he was feeling unwell, Mr J did not need to seek emergency 
medical treatment and hasnt submitted costs for any such treatment for consideration by 
Aviva here.
Mr J has asked that Aviva pay him compensation for implying that his claim was dishonest. 
Ive reviewed the communications Aviva had with Mr J. But I cant see any grounds for me to 
make such an award. Its common practice for insurers to request supporting documentation 
to validate a claim. Im satisfied that is what Aviva has done here. I appreciate Mr J is 
unhappy with its decision to decline his claim. But generally when making an insurance claim 
the burden of proof is on the claimant to show they have a valid claim under the policy terms 
and conditions. And I think its likely Aviva was making its comments in this context. As such, 
Im not persuaded Aviva treated Mr J unfairly  or any differently to how it wouldve treated 
other customers in similar circumstances.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman