DRN-3226897
The complaint
Mr S complains Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) updated its banking app meaning it 
was no longer compatible with his mobile phone, and that hes having problems with his 
online banking too. He also complains that Bank of Scotland plc hasnt made reasonable 
adjustments for his autism and ADHD in breach of the Equality Act 2010.
What happened
Mr S has an account with Halifax. He finds Halifaxs banking app helpful, and he uses online 
banking too. He lives in an area with limited mobile reception and spends a lot of time away 
from home, again in an area with limited mobile reception. He also routinely deletes cookies 
on his computer  he says he does this because hes very security conscious.
Mr S has autism and ADHD and finds new processes and change difficult to deal with. So, it 
was difficult for him when he was told that Halifax would soon be updating its banking app 
and that his mobile phone wouldnt work on the updated banking app. Thats because his 
mobile phone at the time ran on Android version 6.0 and only devices running Android 
version 7.0 or higher would be compatible. He spoke to Halifax and complained about this.
Mr S was also having problems with his online banking because Halifax was sending one-
time passcodes to his mobile phone so that he could authenticate. He didnt always receive 
these on time  whether at home or not  because he spends the majority of his time in 
areas with limited mobile reception. He spoke to Halifax and complained about this too.
Halifax investigated Mr Ss complaints and said that it could send one-time passcodes to his 
landline as an alternative to his mobile phone. He could also accept cookies on his computer 
 if he did so, hed need one-time passcodes less often. Halifax also said that it updates its 
app from time to time for a number of reasons. It made suggestions as to what Mr S could 
do to see if his mobile phone could remain compatible, but these didnt help. Mr S was 
unhappy with Halifaxs response to his complaints, so he complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaints but didnt think Halifax had acted 
unfairly as it had offered Mr S an alternative way of authenticating  using a landline  and it 
wasnt unfair of Halifax to update its banking app. Mr S has got a new mobile phone since 
then, but hes still having problems authenticating when he wants to use his online banking. 
He asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a number of calls Mr S had with Halifax during which he explains his autism 
and his ADHD, and how they have an impact on him. In one of the calls, Mr S discusses his 
autism and his ADHD with an agent, and how this can make communication more difficult for 
him. In my opinion, the agent handled the call really well  and did what a business would be 
expected to do in a situation like this. They checked, for example, that they could make a 
record of what Mr S was telling them, and having got Mr Ss permission, made a note of the 
things that Halifax needed to do differently so that this was on the system for others to see  
meaning Mr S wouldnt have to explain the same thing again and again. I can see that 
Halifax put this into practice too. So whilst its not for me to make a finding as to whether or 
not a business had breached the Equality Act 2010, I can take into account the Equality Act 
2010 in this case, given that Im satisfied its relevant law here. Having done so, Im satisfied 
that Halifax hasnt acted unfairly in its dealings with Mr S. I can, however, see that he was 
unhappy about Halifax updating its banking app  upgrading to a new mobile phone appears 
to have solved that issue  and that hes still unhappy about Halifax not offering him an 
alternative way to authenticate that works for him. So, Im going to consider these issues.
Halifaxs mobile banking app
Mr S, as Ive already mentioned, finds Halifaxs mobile banking app helpful. At the start of 
2021, however, he started to receive notifications saying that the app would soon be 
updated. Once the app was updated hed no longer be able to use it on his mobile phone 
because his mobile phone would no longer be compatible. Mr S was understandably very 
concerned about this.
Halifax has told us that there a number of reasons why it updates its banking app from time 
to time. For example, to improve the look and feel of the app, to bring in new features or 
improve existing features and for security updates. This particular update introduced the 
ability to use a cheque deposit feature as well as updated security.
Ive heard Mr S explain how difficult change can be for him, and that he personally doesnt 
think that the additional features Halifax introduced on this occasion were needed. But I dont 
think thats a reason to say that Halifax acted unfairly in this particular case. Halifax updates 
its mobile banking app from time to time, and it does so for good reasons. Some customers 
will like the updates, some customers wont. But that doesnt mean Halifax doesnt have 
good reasons to do so. In this particular case, Im pleased to see that Mr S now has a new 
mobile phone meaning, as far as I understand it, hes still able to use Halifaxs mobile app.
Halifaxs approach to strong customer authentication
Mr S uses online banking and makes online payments too. Because of this he needs to 
authenticate from time to time.
In September 2019 new regulations came into force that required banks and others to 
implement whats known as strong customer authentication. What that means in practice is 
that many banks now send one-time passcodes to their customers when they want to log 
into their account or initiate a payment, and many banks send these one-time passcodes to 
their customers mobile phone. These one-time passcodes are used to help authenticate 
customers.
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. One 
of the papers the FCA has published is a paper called Payment Services and Electronic 
Money  Our Approach. This was published in June 2019. In paragraph 20.21 of that paper 
the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Im satisfied that Mr S doesnt always receive one-time passcodes on time  whether at 
home or not  because he spends the majority of his time in areas with limited mobile 
reception. And I dont think its unreasonable of him to expect Halifax to offer alternative 
ways for him to authenticate given the guidance that the FCA has issued. In this case, 
however, I agree with our investigator that Halifax has offered two other alternatives  
namely sending one-time passcodes to Mr Ss landline (which I accept wont work when hes 
not at home) or relying on Mr S accepting cookies on his computer so that his device can 
become a trusted device which will mean hell be need to use one-time passcodes a lot 
less. I agree with Mr S that there are other solutions that would work better for him  for 
example, a card reader or a token that he could carry around with him. But I do think that 
Halifax has offered him a couple of viable alternatives. So, I dont think Halifax has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont think Bank of Scotland plc has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman