The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has declined his 
claim for the theft of his car.
What happened
On 3 October 2018 around 4am, Mr Vs car was stolen from outside his home. His wife 
noticed the car was missing in the afternoon of 3 October 2018 and reported this to the 
police and put in a claim with LV. The car wasnt recovered.
LV investigated the claim. It asked for details of when the car was last used, footage from 
Mr Vs neighbours security cameras and for details of the car keys Mr V held for the vehicle. 
On receipt of this information it then asked for him to send in the actual keys for forensic 
analysis. On review of this information, LV declined Mr Vs claim as it considered the car had 
been left unlocked. It relied on an exclusion in the policy that says it wont cover loss or 
damage to the car by theft if the car has been left unlocked.
Mr V disagreed with the claim outcome and raised a complaint. He said his wife had locked 
the car, as she does every time she uses it. He believed they had been the victims of a 
targeted theft, where the thief had used some form of device to trick the car into unlocking 
without the thief having the actual keys. He said he couldnt see how this could be random 
considering that the footage suggests the thief knew the car door was unlocked  and so the 
thief mustve unlocked the car door prior to approaching the car.
LV didnt change its stance so Mr V came to our service. We looked into his complaint but 
didnt uphold it.
Our investigator said that this type of car didnt have keyless entry. So this means it wasnt 
susceptible to what is known as relay theft  where a thief gets the code the car key omits 
to unlock the vehicle when its in close proximity, so the car incorrectly detects the key is in 
range and unlocks. He also said it didnt look as if the cars wingmirrors were tucked in, which 
is a feature some cars like Mr Vs have when they are locked. He said that weighing up the 
evidence he couldnt conclude the car was locked.
Mr V disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said that they believed his wife 
had been targeted in the afternoon when she was out and the car keys infrared code had 
been intercepted. Then she was followed home and the thieves later returned to use this 
code and unlock and steal the car. He also said that window motor failure or alarm failure 
could account for the wingmirrors being out and no alarm sounding when the thieves tried to 
start the car.
DRN-1576666What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone makes a claim on their car insurance, its first for them to show that they 
have suffered an insured peril  so in this case the theft of a car. LV is satisfied that Mr V 
has proved the car was stolen, which I also accept. So then the burden of proof moves onto 
LV and it needs to either accept the claim or show an exclusion applies. In this case, its 
relying on an exclusion.
The exclusion under Section 2 Fire and Theft reads:
What is not covered under sections 1 and 2
We wont pay for:
loss or damage to your car by theft or attempted theft if:
 your car has been left unlocked;
I accept it wouldnt be possible in this case for LV to definitively prove the car was left 
unlocked. So in situations like this I have to weigh up the evidence available from both 
parties and reach a decision on the balance of probabilities i.e. what is more likely than not. 
With that in mind, Ive considered whether, based on the evidence available, its more likely 
the car was left unlocked.
While I have considered all the evidence available, including what Mr V and his wife have 
told us, I consider the evidence I can place the most weight on is the security footage from 
his neighbour, as this shows the theft taking place. And it shows the thief walking up to the 
car, heading straight to the drivers door and opening it. He doesnt have any tools or 
electronic equipment in his hands and doesnt have to do anything unusual/extra to the car 
door in order to get it open. The footage also starts more than five minutes before the theft 
and the car isnt unlocked by the thief during this time. So, on balance, it does seem that the 
car door was left unlocked, considering how easily and quickly the thief got into the car.
So then the burden falls back to Mr V and Ive considered what hes said he believes is most 
likely to have happened. Hes suggested the thief unlocked the car using the infrared code 
from the key  which they obtained earlier in the day in a supermarket car park. And he 
believes the thief unlocked the door sometime before approaching the car, waiting for the 
right opportunity.
Ive considered Mr Vs explanation. But I have reached the same conclusions as the 
investigator and dont consider this is enough to say LV has acted unfairly. I appreciate why 
he doesnt have more evidence and have evaluated his possible scenarios for how the thief 
unlocked his car. But Im afraid this isnt enough to persuade me LV has unfairly applied the 
exclusion  as I think the footage suggests its most likely the car was left unlocked.
I also say this because my research suggests most modern cars have a feature that means 
if the car is unlocked, but then not accessed, the car will re-lock after a short period of time. 
This is to protect the owner if they, for example, accidentally pressed the key in their pocket. 
This feature however doesnt activate if the car isnt locked following use. On looking into 
Mr Vs car, he shouldve had this feature, so the thief wouldve actually only had a short 
window to approach the car after unlocking it. And as Ive said above, the neighbours 
footage covers several minutes before the theft but doesnt show the car unlocking, suggesting it was more likely left unlocked after use. So while I have considered Mr Vs 
testimony, it isnt enough to persuade me LV has unfairly applied this exclusion.
I also appreciate the car had an immobiliser and alarm  and neither of these prevented this 
theft for some reason. Mr V has also suggested why this could be. However as the term LV 
is relying on is an exclusion for the car being left unlocked  which I think on balance it was, I 
dont consider I need to make a finding on these other points. Im satisfied that the fact the 
car was unlocked did substantially contribute to the thiefs ability to steal this car. So LV is 
entitled to reject the claim using this exclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman