DRN-3255028
The complaint
In summary, Miss F has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc, hasnt helped her to recover 
a payment taken from her bank account, using her debit card.
What happened
In June 2019 a significant payment was taken from Miss Fs bank account. Barclays says 
Miss F tried to dispute the payment directly with the business that took it. As Miss F didnt 
have any success getting the money back from that business, she approached Barclays.
Barclays told Miss F that the time limits in which she needed to raise a dispute had passed. 
So, it wouldnt be able to raise a dispute about the transaction on her behalf with the debit 
card provider. 
Miss F didnt agree with Barclays answer, so she asked our service to look into her 
concerns. One of our investigators explained to Miss F why she agreed with what Barclays 
had said. Miss F remained unhappy with the answer she had been given, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Miss F is upset that she isnt able to dispute the transaction she has 
raised with Barclays. Barclays uses a card scheme to operate the debit cards it issues to 
customers. And the terms for settling disputes relating to debit cards are set by the card 
scheme, not by Barclays.
The scheme operator for Miss Fs debit card was Visa. And the timeframes in which disputes 
need to be raised are set by Visa, not by Barclays who issued Miss Fs card. In relation to 
the dispute Miss F raised with Barclays, Visas scheme rules set out that the dispute must be 
raised within 120 days from the date the transaction in dispute was processed. 
The transaction Miss F disputes was processed in June 2019. But, having examined the 
internal records provided by Barclays, Ive not seen any evidence that Miss F raised a 
dispute with Barclays about this particular transaction before the 120-day time frame 
expired. It has been raised out of time, so I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong in 
the way it has applied the visa scheme rules.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Miss Fs complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or reject 
my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman