DRN-3893079
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way Abacus Insurance Services (Abacus) acted when she asked 
them to renew her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mrs B renewed her motor insurance with Abacus, which is an insurance 
broker. In May 2021 Mrs Bs car was stolen and she made a claim. The insurer, a separate 
business from Abacus, established that Mrs B and a named driver had undisclosed motoring 
convictions and Mrs B had three undisclosed county courts judgements (CCJs) registered 
against her name. It said it wouldnt have insured her had it known this information sooner. 
Mrs Bs policy was then avoided (that is, treated like it never existed) and her claim declined 
on the grounds of misrepresentation. Mrs B complained to her insurer as she didnt think 
shed been treated fairly. That complaint has been considered separately and I wont 
comment on it here.
Mrs B also complained that Abacus had failed to ask her certain questions when she 
renewed the insurance policy. That is the complaint Ive been asked to look at in this 
decision. Abacus responded to the complaint by saying they hadnt been made aware of the 
speeding convictions or the CCJs when Mrs B had renewed her policy. Our investigator 
thought Abacus had acted reasonably but Mrs B disagrees. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B but, having considered the evidence, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator. Let me explain why.
When Mrs B renewed her policy in August 2020, Abacus say they sent her policy documents 
to her home address. Within them was a Statement of Facts based on what they say she 
told them. This includes a statement which says, You  have not been the subject of a 
court judgment in respect of debt either in a personal or business capacity. And a statement 
that says, You  have not had any motoring convictions within the last 5 years including 
fixed penalty notices or endorsements. Mrs B didnt correct or amend these statements, and 
this led to the insurer later avoiding her policy.
Abacus say they would have asked the same questions when they arranged the policy with 
Mrs B. Mrs B denies that and says she was never asked those questions. Abacus didnt 
record telephone calls at the time the policy was arranged so I cant be certain whether or 
not they asked Mrs B those questions at the time. Nevertheless, the policy documents were 
sent to Mrs B and they included a statement in bold which says Please read and check the 
information in this Statement of Facts carefully. And goes on to explain that if any of the 
information is not complete or accurate Abacus might cancel the policy and refuse to pay 
any claim. So, even if Abacus didnt ask Mrs B those specific questions when she called up 
to renew her policy, I think she had an obligation to read and check the information Abacus 
held for her and let them know if anything was wrong or incorrect. 
I note that the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy also stated that she had an obligation 
to provide complete and accurate answers to the questions asked when she takes out, 
renews or amends her policy. And to tell Abacus or the insurer as soon as possible if there 
are any changes to her circumstances which could affect her insurance.
Mrs B says she doesnt know what a Statement of Facts is and says she was never sent 
one. Abacus has shown us evidence the policy documents were sent to Mrs B in 
September 2020 and again in October 2020 when she moved address. The letters are 
addressed correctly, and Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Abacus sent those policy 
documents to the correct addresses. 
Mrs B shared some emails she received from Abacus, one of which enclosed the certificate 
of motor insurance and says they would action all the paperwork the next day and put it in 
the post. So, I think it would be reasonable for Mrs B to expect to receive more 
documentation after shed been in contact with Abacus. And then to contact Abacus if she 
didnt receive anything.
I recognise Mrs Bs strength of feeling but based on everything Ive seen, I dont think theres 
enough evidence to show, even on the balance of probabilities, that Abacus have treated her 
unfairly. Im satisfied Abacus acted reasonably by relying on the information it held for Mrs B 
and then proceeding with the policy renewal. Mrs B had a responsibility to check that the 
information Abacus had was correct and unfortunately theres no evidence she did that. So, I 
wont be asking Abacus to do anything further in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman