DRN-2842181
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lowell Financial Ltd didnt send him a copy of a letter he asked for.
What happened
In 2017 Lowell bought a debt in Mr Cs name from another business (A). In March 2019 A 
wrote to Mr C and said that it hadnt sent information in line with the Consumer Credit Act. 
As a result, interest and charges werent correctly applied to the debt. Lowell also wrote to 
Mr C to confirm interest and charges were being refunded to the outstanding balance. 
Mr C later contacted Lowell and asked for a copy of the letter he had been sent by A. Lowell 
said it had never received a copy of the letter Mr C asked for. In July 2019 Lowell wrote to 
Mr C and confirmed the new balance of his debt after the refunds were applied. 
Mr C said the refund shouldve been paid to him rather than used to reduce his outstanding 
balance. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They didnt 
find that Lowell had treated Mr C unfairly. Mr C asked to appeal so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, under this case we can only look at Lowells actions and 
whether it has treated Mr C fairly. I can see that Mr C has referred a complaint to us about 
As actions and the refund it applied to his debt. But this decision relates to Lowell only. 
Mr C asked Lowell for a copy of the letter A sent him to explain it had breached the 
Consumer Credit Act. But Lowell has explained it didnt receive a copy of the letter A sent Mr 
C so couldnt forward it to him. Lowell has told us it received information from A about its 
decision to issue a refund directly. 
Given A wrote directly to Mr C at the address it held for him, I can see no reason why Lowell 
would have a copy of that letter. Lowell and A are different businesses. I havent found that 
Lowell made an error or treated Mr C unfairly as it didnt have a copy of As letter to send 
him. 
I note Mr C, in his complaint submission, sent us copies of correspondence he received from 
both Lowell and A in March 2019. As letter confirms the Consumer Credit Act breach. And 
Lowells letter confirms the amount of interest A refunded. Im satisfied Lowell wrote to Mr C 
independently to confirm the updated balance of his debt. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I havent found any evidence that indicates Lowell was sent 
a copy of As letter. And I havent found any evidence that shows Lowell has lost letters or 
treated Mr C unfairly. As I havent found anything that shows Lowell has made a mistake and 
Im satisfied it has treated Mr C fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman