DRN-3702355
The complaint
Miss L complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited [RSA] unfairly settled a claim 
she made on her buildings insurance policy following some storm damage, and 
subsequently asked for the settlement to be repaid following concerns about the authenticity 
of her claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and so Ill provide a summary 
here.
Miss L has a buildings insurance policy underwritten by RSA. She made a claim on 
her policy after an outbuilding at her property was damaged by a falling tree during a 
storm.
Initially, one of RSAs agents considered the claim and agreed for certain works to be 
covered. During the course of the claim, it became clear Miss L had failed to disclose 
a number of previous claims which RSA said, if it had known about, would have 
resulted in it charging a higher premium. This led to it proportionally settling the claim 
with a payment to Miss Ls account. 
Miss L wasnt happy with this approach as she had originally wanted the building 
reinstated and thought the settlement should have been much higher to allow her to 
do this.
RSA subsequently had some concerns about the amount of the claim and the extent 
of the work Miss L thought should be included compared to its estimate of what was 
attributable to the storm damage. RSA appointed another specialist agent to 
investigate. It shared the concerns about the claim and some of the evidence 
provided by Miss L. The agent spoke to a contractor who Miss L claimed had 
undertaken some of the work but he denied having attended her home to undertake 
the work or having issued the invoice Miss L had provided to RSA. 
The agent also said the screenshots Miss L had provided - which she said were 
messages between her and her contractor confirming the works  didnt actually 
evidence he had undertaken the work. And it said, in light of this and Miss Ls refusal 
to discuss the claim with it, the claim was declined as Miss L hadnt presented it 
openly, fairly and honestly. 
It also voided the policy and said it would be seeking reimbursement of the 
settlement it had already made to her.
Our Investigator considered the evidence but didnt uphold the complaint, saying he 
thought RSA had acted fairly based on the evidence he had seen. Miss L disagreed 
and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to say how complaints should be resolved 
quickly and with minimal formality. That means I will focus on what I consider to be the crux 
of the complaint and I may not reference every point made by the parties unless I consider it 
relevant to the decision I need to make. But I can confirm Ive seen and considered 
everything the parties have said.
RSA says Miss L didnt present her claim openly, fully and honestly and refers to the 
fraud condition in the policy. This explains all benefits under the policy would be lost 
and the policy might be invalid if dishonesty, exaggeration or false documentation are 
used in support of a claim. In light of this, Ive gone on to consider if RSA acted fairly 
in declining the claim.
As part of the substantiation of her claim, Miss L submitted an invoice from a fencing 
contractor who she said had undertaken the removal of the tree which damaged the 
outbuilding. RSAs agent searched for the business as part of its standard enquiries 
but couldnt find any reference to it online, on social media or the internet more 
widely. 
So, it got in contact with the contractor but he denied ever meeting Miss L or any 
knowledge of the work she said he had undertaken. Additionally, he denied issuing 
the invoice she had presented to RSA and he thought she must have used the 
letterhead without his permission. In short, he said the documentation was false.
RSA offered Miss L the opportunity to provide further explanation. In response, 
Miss L declined to discuss the matter further but supplied a number of screenshots of 
messages she said were between her and the contractor arranging the work. 
Ive considered these carefully but the majority of the messages appear unrelated to 
Miss L and Im not persuaded the limited interaction between her and the contractor 
backs up or substantiates Miss Ls story that he undertook the work she claimed he 
had. Particularly in light of his own strong denial of such events.
Miss L refused to cooperate further and claimed the contractor was lying for personal 
reasons but Ive seen nothing which persuades me this belief has merit. The agent 
then got in contact with the proprietor and he once again denied any knowledge of 
the work.
Because of this, I think RSA fairly concluded the documentation was false. And 
coupled with Miss Ls refusal to cooperate with the agent or provide further 
explanation, I think RSA fairly concluded the claim hadnt been presented fully and 
honestly as she was required to in line with the policy. It follows, I also think it acted 
fairly when it declined the claim, voided the policy and sought to reclaim the 
settlement it had already made.
For the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking RSA to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman