DRN-2002145
The complaint
Mr D says Canada Square Operations Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Egg was an internet based account. Mr D applied online for his credit card with PPI via the 
Egg website in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr D is mainly concerned that PPI wasnt explained to him in a clear way as he never 
received a follow up call to discuss his application. He says that if Egg had provided him with 
clearer information, as shouldve happened, then he would have been aware of the true 
costs and benefits of this policy and allowed to make an informed decision for himself as to 
whether the policy was suitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
I think Egg made Mr D aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. On the 
online application form Mr D completed he had to select the Yes option to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No and his application wouldve continued without PPI being 
included if hed done that. 
Mr D had to select one of those options to proceed with his application. So I think he 
wouldve been aware that it was up to him to say if he wanted the PPI at the time - even if 
hes forgotten this now. 
On balance, I find Mr D knew he had a choice about protecting his repayments and the PPI 
was added to his account when he indicated he wanted it. 
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it still shouldve given Mr D enough information to make a proper decision about whether 
PPI was right for him. And if it didnt do this, I have to decide if this made any overall 
difference to Mr D. 
Ive taken into account what Mr D has told us about his financial circumstances. The policy 
wouldve protected him if hed lost his job as well as paying out if he was disabled or too sick 
to work. 
It wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay and for longer than hes mentioned he couldve 
depended on getting pay from his employer if he was off sick. 
So I think the PPI couldve given him a useful benefit at what mightve been a difficult time  
especially if he had extra costs as a result of being off work sick. 
The PPI wouldve more than covered his Egg card monthly repayments and cleared his card 
balance if hed needed to claim for the full 12 months. So I think Mr D couldve benefitted 
from having the policy.  
It doesnt look like Mr D wouldve been caught by any of the conditions which limited the 
policys cover for some people. So, I dont think that knowing more about things the policy 
didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mr Ds decision to take it out. 
Next to where Mr D was asked to decide about the PPI on the application he completed, the 
purpose of the cover is broadly described, the cost is set out and theres some information 
about the benefits it offers. The policy provided Mr D with the protection broadly described 
on the website which hed indicated he was willing to pay for. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
the policy was unaffordable for him.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr D still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed as PPI gave 
him useful protection in his particular situation.
In coming to my decision Ive taken carefully into account everything Mr D has said in 
response to our adjudicators view. 
But I dont find that Mr D has lost out as a result of anything that Egg mightve done wrong. 
That means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman