DRN-1437224
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Stagemount Limited (trading as Quidmarket) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
What happened 
This complaint is about five loans Quidmarket provided to Mr S between May 2018 and May 
2019. 
Heres a loan table setting out details of the loans: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 11/05/2018 31/07/2018 3 £300.00 £140.69
2 08/08/2018 30/10/2018 3 £400.00 £189.50
3 01/11/2018 31/01/2019 3 £450.00 £225.42
4 31/01/2019 06/03/2019 3 £600.00 £298.78
5 28/05/2019 not paid 6 £600.00 £199.99 
 
Mr S said Quidmarket shouldnt have given him these unaffordable loans - especially as by 
the 4th loan hed increased his borrowing to £600 and Quidmarket approved it at a time 
when he was in a financial mess. Mr S told us that hes now in financial difficulty and his 
health has been affected due to the stress and worry of his situation.
Our adjudicators overall view was that he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for 
Quidmarket to have provided loans 1, 2, and 3 to Mr S. But he felt that the pattern of lending 
itself showed that by loan 4 the borrowing was unsustainable  so Quidmarket shouldnt 
have given Mr S loans 4 and 5.
Our adjudicator set out the steps he felt Quidmarket should take to put things right for Mr S.
Quidmarket disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that his opinion wasnt 
supported by other decisions published on our website. Quidmarket said our adjudicator 
hadnt properly taken into account the information it relied on when approving the loans 
which it says showed that they were affordable for Mr S. 
Quidmarket requested an ombudsman review. So the complaint comes to me to decide.What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidmarket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. 
But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations 
define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should 
be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well 
as without having to borrow to meet repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Ive come to the same view as our adjudicator about loans 1-3. Ive looked at the information Quidmarket recorded for Mr S, including income and 
expenditure details from the time and the checks it carried out. Given this was early on in the 
lending relationship, I agree that there isnt enough to say Quidmarket shouldnt have 
provided these loans to Mr S. 
And as Mr S hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
the first three loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them. 
But given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think by loan 4 Quidmarket should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided this loan.
I say this because at this point Quidmarket ought to have realised:
 
Mr S was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. Mr S had first started 
borrowing from Quidmarket around 8 months or so earlier and he was now asking to 
borrow again. 
 
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads into the amount he owed Quidmarket  each 
loan hed taken had been bigger than the last and loan 4 was the biggest amount 
hed asked to borrow. So it wasnt reasonable of Quidmarket to think Mr Ss situation 
had improved and he was now asking to borrow because of a new need for a short 
term loan. Rather, it looked more like he had ongoing and long term money problems 
 and his need for extra cash appeared to be escalating.
 
Quidmarket ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr S was borrowing 
further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances each 
time and that Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
 
So I dont think Quidmarket shouldve provided loan 4 to Mr S or allowed him to borrow 
further. 
Ive carefully considered everything Quidmarket has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. Each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases reported 
on our website doesnt change my conclusion here. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Quidmarket shouldve seen that Mr Ss indebtedness 
was increasing unsustainably by the time he took out loan 4 and it shouldve realised then 
that it was unfair to continue to lending to him. 
I think that Mr S lost out when Quidmarket provided loan 4 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
I can see that in the event Mr S repaid loan 4 relatively quickly. But when Quidmarket 
agreed this loan it was due to run for 3 months and Quidmarket couldnt have known 
that Mr S would repay it early 
 the length of time over which Mr S borrowed from Quidmarket was likely to have 
negative implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in 
the market for high-cost loans. 
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 and 5 and Quidmarket should put things right. 
Putting things right  what Quidmarket needs to do
If Quidmarket has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have 
set out below. If Quidmarket isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Quidmarket 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E". 
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Quidmarket should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr S.
 
E. By loan 4, the overall pattern of Mr Ss borrowing from Quidmarket means any 
information recorded about this loan and any following loans is adverse. So all 
information about loans 4 and 5 should be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to take off tax from this interest. Quidmarket 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ss complaint. Stagemount Limited 
(trading as Quidmarket) should take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Susan WebbOmbudsman