DRN-2899164
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, continued to report adverse information 
to his credit file after theyd sold his account to a third party, such that the same account was 
reported to his credit file twice.
What happened
Mr W entered into a payment plan with Aqua and the details of this payment plan were 
reported to Mr Ws credit file. Sometime later, Aqua sold Mr Ws account to a third party.
At that time, Aqua should have stopped making reports to the credit reference agencies  as 
the continuing reports were to be made by the third party to whom the account had been 
transferred. However, Mr W discovered that Aqua had continued to report the ongoing 
payment plan to his credit file, such that it was being reported twice  by both Aqua and the 
third party. Mr W wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Aqua looked at Mr Ws complaint. They acknowledged that they had continued to make 
reports to the credit reference agencies after they should have stopped doing so, and they 
arranged for Mr Ws credit file to be corrected and offered Mr W £20 by way of compensation 
for any inconvenience incurred.
Mr W didnt feel that Aquas response went far enough, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During our investigators review, 
Aqua increased their offer of compensation to Mr W by a further £100, to a total of £120.
Our investigator felt that this offer from Aqua, as well as the corrective action to Mr Ws credit 
file that Aqua had already undertaken, represented a fair and reasonable outcome to what 
had happened. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In circumstances such as this, where a business has acknowledged that theyve made an 
error, what this service would expect would be that the business would take the corrective 
steps necessary to rectify the error and, if appropriate, make an offer to the customer to fairly 
compensate them for any inconvenience or distress incurred.
I think that Aqua have done that here. Theyve already corrected the historical reporting on 
Mr Ws credit file so that the account in question isnt showing as being reported twice. 
Additionally, theyve made an offer to pay Mr W £120 as compensation for any trouble and 
upset he may have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer consider fair and reasonable by 
one party not being considered as such by another party. However, while Im aware that Mr 
W may disagree with me, the offer of £120 that Aqua have already made does feel fair to 
me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the 
circumstances here. 
Im aware that Mr W feels that he was declined for a mortgage solely because this account 
was reported twice on his credit file. I can understand how this would be upsetting for Mr W. 
But there are many reasons why a mortgage application might be declined, and Im not 
convinced that the issue at hand can be considered as being the sole reason in this 
instance.
It must be noted that this service did ask Mr W to provide some form of proof that the 
mortgage had been declined solely because of the duplicated reporting on Mr Ws credit file 
- potentially in the form of a declaration from the mortgage provider. But Mr W didnt provide 
such proof. And I dont feel that it would be reasonable to consider Aqua as being 
responsible for the mortgage not being approved when no proof to that effect has been 
provided.
So, considering all the information here, Im satisfied that Aquas response to Mr Ws 
complaint - including the corrective action taken on Mr Ws credit file and the current offer of 
£120 compensation - does represent a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I appreciate that this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting here, but it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Aqua to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mr W will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman