DRN-3673753
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) 
unfairly cancelled his credit card. S is being represented by its director, who Ill call Mr V. For 
ease, Ill refer to Mr V in my decision.
What happened
Mr V complained to AMEX after it cancelled his credit card. AMEX had been trying to obtain 
information from Mr V as part of it know your customer process. Mr V didnt respond so 
AMEX cancelled the credit card in line with its terms.
Mr V says AMEX had sent its requests for information via email, but that these were sent to 
an email address that was no longer in use. Mr V adds that AMEX shouldve tried to contact 
him using the telephone numbers it holds for him. AMEX says it used the email address it 
held on its records and followed its know your customer process correctly by sending its 
requests via email. 
Mr V asked this service to review the matter. He wants AMEX to either reinstate the credit 
card or offer him a new one with a fee-free period of 24 months. Our investigator concluded 
that AMEX acted fairly because it sent numerous emails over a period. Mr V claims his email 
address had problems due to server issues, but the investigator was satisfied that the bank 
acted fairly by using the email address it held on its records.
Mr V didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the opinion that AMEX acted fairly and Ill explain why.
First, I think it would be useful for me to set out what my powers allow me to do. Its not for 
me to decide what processes AMEX should follow when carrying out know your customer 
activities. Its for AMEX to decide how it conducts its business and what steps it takes to 
ensure it meets its regulatory obligations. I can only decide whether AMEX has acted fairly in 
the application of its process.
Looking at the information AMEX has sent, I can see it emailed Mr V a total of six times 
about this issue and this was across a period of almost a year. Each time, AMEX explained it 
needed more information from Mr V and asked for a response within a specific number of 
days. By the third request, AMEX notified Mr V that it may suspend and cancel his account 
in line with its terms.
Around March 2022, AMEX suspended the credit card account and provided a final deadline 
for Mr V to respond by. Mr V didnt respond so AMEX cancelled the credit card around a 
month later. Based on this, Im satisfied that AMEX made reasonable attempts to obtain the 
information it needed, and it acted fairly by cancelling the credit card as it received no 
response.
Mr V says the email address used was inactive and says there were server problems, 
meaning he didnt see the emails. Unfortunately, I havent seen anything that persuades me 
there were indeed server problems that prevented Mr V accessing his emails throughout the 
period the emails were sent. AMEX emailed Mr V multiple times over the course of around a 
year, using the email address Mr V had provided it with. And I havent seen anything that 
suggests AMEX shouldve reasonably known that the email address it held may not have 
been in use or accessible. So I cant conclude that AMEX acted unfairly by contacting Mr V 
using the email address it held on its records.
Mr V thinks AMEX shouldve done more to contact him  by using the telephone numbers it 
held to call him or send an SMS. I dont disagree that this was certainly an option for AMEX 
to use. But as AMEX has said, its process is to use email in these circumstances to allow for 
efficiency and ease in responding. And I can see from the emails that AMEX provided a link 
for Mr V to log in and provide the information it needed. As I said earlier, its for AMEX to 
determine its process for these circumstances and Im satisfied it acted fairly when it decided 
to use email only to contact Mr V.
In conclusion, its my decision that AMEX acted fairly when it only emailed Mr V as part of its 
know your customer process. Mr V didnt respond despite multiple requests, so I think AMEX 
acted fairly when it eventually cancelled the credit card.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman