DRN-2523042
The complaint
Mr H complains in his capacity as a director of (and on behalf of) a limited company G that 
Associated Foreign Exchange Limited (AFEX) didnt do enough when he reported that he 
was the victim of a scam in which he sent money to one of their customers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. Between September and November 2018 Mr H made 
six payments totalling £52,000 from Gs account with their own bank A to an account held 
with AFEX. 
At the time he believed he was investing the funds, but unfortunately, he was the victim of a 
scam. The wider circumstances involve other transfers to other banks  but this complaint is 
about AFEX who Mr H alleges have failed in their obligations and have caused Gs loss in 
relation to the payments sent to them. 
In February 2019 Mr H became aware hed been the victim of a scam when he tried to 
withdraw funds from his investment and was unable to do so. He reported this to the 
relevant parties including AFEX.
AFEX returned the last three payments (totalling £27,000) to Gs account in March 2019. But 
they said the first three payments had already been transferred out before they were made 
aware there was a problem. They also said they couldnt go into detail for data protection 
reasons and confirmed they would co-operate fully with the authorities if asked. 
Mr H says that AFEX have breached anti-money laundering regulations and failed with 
regard to their know your customer and compliance duties. The matter was referred to our 
service and one of our investigators didnt think we could consider all of Mr Hs complaint 
within our jurisdiction. And for what we could consider, she didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. Mr H disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision explaining why Im only able to consider how AFEX 
responded to Gs notification of APP fraud. This is because the relationship within the 
Financial Conduct Authority rules that allows G to be considered an eligible complainant only 
came into effect on 31 January 2019. It wasnt retrospective and so Im unable to consider 
what AFEX might have done in relation to preventing the fraud which had occurred the 
previous year. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 22 February 2019 Mr H says he reported to AFEX that the payments hed made to their 
customer in 2018 were as a result of a scam. AFEX investigated and confirmed that of the 
money sent to their customer by G, £27,000 remained to be recovered. Im satisfied this is 
the case and that there wasnt more available to be returned. 
Ive seen Gs bank statement with bank A which shows that the money AFEX returned 
credited their account on 7 March 2019. I think this is a reasonable timeframe to investigate 
and then arrange and facilitate the return of the funds. Im satisfied AFEX responded 
appropriately to Gs notification of fraud and so Im not upholding this complaint. 
I sympathise with Mr H being the victim of a scam. But I cant direct that AFEX reimburse 
him further as Im satisfied they responded appropriately and returned what they were able 
to in a timely manner. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman