DRN-2748091
The complaint
Mr V complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly lent to him and the lending 
was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr V says he took out an Aqua credit card account but Aqua didnt check his finances which 
would have shown his financial difficulties. He says the lending was unaffordable and Aqua 
irresponsibly increased his credit limit. Mr V also complains that Aqua allowed him to take 
out a loan for £4,000 which was also unaffordable and later registered a default on his credit 
file. He says he didnt receive the credit limit increase letters or the default letters.
Aqua says it considered both loan and credit card applications and carried out appropriate 
checks. It says Mr V didnt have any defaults or adverse information on his credit file save 
one account in arrears. It also says Mr V declared a household income of over £40,000 
which it checked as well as limited unsecured debt. Aqua says it approved the credit 
application in 2017 with a credit limit of £600 which it increased twice following appropriate 
account management.
Aqua says the loan was approved for £4,000 in 2018 and both accounts were defaulted in 
2019. It says it agreed a repayment plan, but it correctly sent default letters to Mr V following 
a change in his circumstances.
Mr V brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Aqua had carried out appropriate and proportionate checks on both applications and 
considered Mr Vs account management. The investigator didnt think Aqua responsible for 
Mr V not receiving the letters and thought Mr V could have rejected the credit increases.
Mr V doesnt accept that view and maintains he didnt receive the letters and appropriate 
checks were not carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr V will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any credit applications. 
Those checks will of course vary depending on the type of lending and the amount. Im 
satisfied that having looked at Aquas records Mr V declared a household income of over 
£40,000. Im also satisfied that Aqua carried out checks on that income and Mr Vs outgoings 
and that it correctly checked Mr Vs credit file which showed no adverse information such as 
defaults or County Court Judgements (CCJs). So, I think that Aqua carried out appropriate 
and proportionate checks on the credit card application and in any event a relatively modest 
credit limit of £600 was approved. I appreciate Mr V says he was in financial difficulties, but I 
dont think he has provided any evidence of that.
I have looked at Mr Vs credit card statements and I think he appropriately manged his 
account leading up to the credit limit increases. So, I dont think Aquas decision to allow 
those increases was irresponsible and that they were correctly assessed. I also think the 
latest credit limit was again relatively modest and took the credit limit to amount under 
£2,000.
I appreciate Mr V says he didnt receive the letters from Aqua about the credit limit 
increases. But Im satisfied that the information was contained clearly on the account 
statements and Mr V must have been aware of the increases as he used them. If Mr V 
wished to reject the credit limit increases, then I would have expected him to have told Aqua 
that or made contact with it about those increases the time. I cant fairly hold Aqua 
responsible for Mr V not receiving any of the credit limit increase letters or the default letters 
as its not involved in the delivery of mail.
Im satisfied that Aqua also carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on the loan 
application and again considered as well as checked Mr Vs income and expenditure. I can 
also see that Mr V made the required loan repayments for some months after the loan was 
approved which I think provides additional evidence that the loan was affordable at the time 
it was approved.
I think it likely that Mr Vs personal circumstances changed after the loan and credit card 
were taken out, but I cant fairly hold Aqua responsible for that. Lenders should treat 
customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. I can see that Aqua agreed 
a repayment plan and stopped interest and also provided details of debt problem 
organisations. But I also think it clear that Mr V could no longer afford to repay his borrowing. 
And so, I dont think in those circumstances that Aqua made a mistake by concluding that 
the relationship between it and Mr V had broken down and by registering a default on his 
credit file. I find that lenders must report accurate information about their customers 
accounts to the Credit Reference Agencies and that is what took place here.
Overall, Im satisfied that Aqua has fairly and correctly assessed Mr Vs credit and loan 
applications and didnt make a mistake by increasing the credit limit on the credit card 
account. I also dont think Aqua made a mistake or acted unfairly by registering a default on 
Mr Vs credit file and so cant ask it to remove it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman