DRN-1901760
The complaint
Mr H complains that a hire purchase agreement he entered with BMW
Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as BMW Financial Services was misrepresented to 
him.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a brand-new car.
Mr H says he explained to the dealership that he liked to change his car every two to three 
years and as such was interested in a lease agreement. After looking at a three-year option, 
he says the dealership advised him to enter a 48 month hire purchase agreement as the 
most suitable option for his requirements. He says it told him he could voluntary terminate
the agreement halfway through. Mr H explains he had never heard of this term as he always 
takes shorter term agreements. He says it was explained as an option to return he car after 
half the payments were made when he could part- exchange the car or hand it back. Mr H 
understood that to mean he could hand the car back in May 2020, around 24 months into the 
agreement. This would be when he had made half of the monthly repayments.
Unfortunately, Mr H had an accident that left him unable to drive for several months and so 
he started to make enquires about when he could hand back the car. It was at this point Mr 
H discovered he would also have to have paid half of the total amount back rather than 2 
years monthly payments.
Mr H complained to BMW Financial Services.
In its final response dated 18 April 2019, it said it spoke with the dealership who felt the 
correct information was provided regarding the option to voluntarily terminate. It said as 
there was no evidence to support any contrary verbal discussion took place it didnt uphold 
Mr Hs complaint.
Dissatisfied, Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr H. She looked carefully at Mr Hs car finance history 
and on balance she was persuaded by his testimony. She found Mr H wouldve had to make 
41 repayments before he would be able to voluntary terminate the agreement. She didnt 
feel it reasonable that Mr H would have entered into the agreement had he been aware of 
this. On this basis she felt the hire purchased agreement had been misrepresented to Mr H 
and so to resolve this situation, she said I think BMW Financial Services should:
terminate Mr H's agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr H
Return Mr Hs deposit payment with 8% simple interest from the date of
payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mr H £150 to apologise for any distress and inconvenience caused.
BMW Financial Services disagreed. It says the voluntary termination details including the 
amount that would need to be paid if such an option were taken was clearly documented on 
the agreement. It asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information provided by both parties afresh. Having done so, Ive 
reached the same view as the investigator. Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In my view, the crux of this complaint boils down to Mr H saying he did not get what he was 
led to believe by the dealership he was going to get. In other words, he is saying the hire 
purchase agreement was misrepresented by dealership. Specifically, misrepresentation here 
means a false statement of fact that the consumer relied on to his detriment. Mr H has said 
throughout his complaint that he only entered into the agreement because he believed, 
although this was a 48-month agreement he could terminate it voluntarily after he made half 
the payments, that being 24 months and the usual period he would have entered into a car 
finance agreement for.
I accept BMWs point that by their very nature such alleged verbal assurances are hard to 
substantiate, especially when the hire purchase agreement has specific details regarding 
voluntary termination and the amounts that would be required to allow Mr H to do so. This 
means, I must assess this aspect, based on the balance of probabilities. But Im not in 
agreement that there isnt enough information to say that such a misrepresentation was most 
likely made.
Mr H has provided a detailed history over the last 20 years which is consistent with the basis 
of his complaint that he always leases brand new cars for a period of 2, or no more than 3 
years. He has also provided several previous contracts in support of his testimony. He says 
the salesman brought over the manager, with whom he had a lengthy discussion around the 
48-month agreement and a specific discussion around voluntary termination, a term he says 
he hadnt come across before. So, on the one hand Mr H says he understood he could hand 
back the car or part exchange it after 24 monthly repayments, an agreement in line with a 
20-year leasing history and on the other he has signed an agreement completely contrary to 
that.
The hire purchase agreement was for £599.99 each month, after 24 months Mr H would 
have paid around £14,399.76. The agreement says:You have the right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the person you 
make your payments to. They will then be entitled to a return of the goods and to half the 
amount payable under this agreement, that is £28,918.86.
This means Mr H would need to pay far more than 2 or 3-years monthly payments. It also 
included part of the balloon payment. I appreciate BMW Financial Services make the point 
that Mr H signed the contract and agreed to its terms. This is of course an important point, 
and Mr H does bear some responsibility here. 
But having looked at the wider circumstances, Im of the view Mr H has shown he has a 
history of taking out contracts for 2 to 3 years maximum, this being his strong preference and 
almost always on a lease basis. This being his strong preference because he wants to have 
brand new vehicles for short term periods, with the option to change the car on a relatively 
short-term basis. I think it unlikely in the circumstances that he would have entered into a 
contract that was almost twice the length of the contracts he had signed in the past. The 
same dealership has also provided two previous contracts with Mr H, one for a two-year 
lease and the other a three-year lease. This is entirely consistent with what Mr H has told 
this service.
I have asked Mr H why he did not see at the time that the contract was for 4 years. He has 
said he had a detailed conversation with the dealership manager. He says it was his 
assurances that this contract gave him the same flexibility as his usual short-term contract, 
that persuaded him to enter into it. He is adamant that has the dealership manager 
explained the financial penalty, he wouldnt have agreed to it, and in the very specific 
individual circumstances of this complaint I find this persuasive.
From what Ive seen, I find it more likely than not that this agreement was misrepresented to 
Mr H. In cases such as this, I would look to put a consumer back into the position they would 
have been in had they been aware of the true nature of the arrangement. In this case, Im 
satisfied that Mr H wouldnt have entered into the contract with BMW Financial Services. I 
therefore will be directing it to revoke the agreement, refund the deposit and remove any 
adverse information from Mr Hs credit file relating to this payment. I will also be making an 
award for the trouble and upset this matter has caused Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
terminate Mr H's agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr H
Return Mr Hs deposit payment with 8% simple interest from the date of
payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mr H £150 to apologise for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman