DRN-3260290
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Vanquis Bank Limited was irresponsible to offer her a credit card and
then increase her credit limit. Mrs W wants Vanquis to refund the interest and fees that she 
has paid.  
What happened
Mrs W opened a credit card account in February 2014 with a credit limit of £250. Vanquis
increased the limit to £1,000 in September 2019.
Mrs W said she struggled to keep up with her repayments and should never have been
given the card or the increased credit limit.
Vanquis was satisfied that it carried out adequate checks before agreeing to lend. The
investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ws complaint be upheld. She thought Vanquiss
checks were proportionate before agreeing to open the credit card account.
The investigator agreed that there were some months when Mrs W exceeded her credit limit,
but these werent too frequent. So, she didnt think it was unreasonable of Vanquis to
increase Mrs Ws credit limit.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators recommendation, so the complaint came to me.
My first provisional decision
After considering the evidence, I issued a provisional decision to Mrs W and Vanquis on 13 
September 2021. In summary I said that although it was reasonable of Vanquis to offer    
Mrs W a credit card when she first applied; I didnt consider it carried out adequate 
affordability checks before offering to increase Mrs Ws credit limit in September 2019.
I made this assessment based on several factors:
The amount of unsecured debt had increased by more than £2,700 since 2014 and 
the number of accounts open had increased by 13
Mrs W had exceeded her credit card limit in the months leading up to Vanquis 
offering the credit limit increase
Mrs W had used her credit card to withdraw small amounts of cash indicating she 
might be in financial difficulties
Mrs W had a history of only making the minimum repayment.
I thought that with better checks, Vanquis wouldve seen that Mrs W had taken out high cost
credit shortly before it increased her credit limit. And that if this had been the case, Vanquis
wouldve wanted to find out more about Mrs Ws financial situation. But as I didnt have
evidence at the time of what better checks wouldve revealed, I wasnt able to uphold the
complaint.
I did however say that if Mrs W could give this service details of her financial circumstances
around the time of the credit limit increase, this might change the outcome of her complaint.
Vanquis responded to my first provisional decision to say that although Mrs Ws external
debt figure had risen, it was over a period of five and half years. Vanquis also pointed out
that Mrs W had managed to reduce the amount of debt from almost £6,800 to £3,740 by
September 2019.
Vanquis said that according to her credit data, Mrs W had only been in arrears on five
occasions between February 2016 and September 2019. And a previously defaulted debt
had been repaid by March 2018.
Vanquis said that it had obtained income and expenditure information from Mrs W which
showed a net monthly income of £2,380 and living and housing costs of £853. Taken with 
her anticipated debt repayments, Vanquis assessed Mrs Ws monthly expenditure as around
£1,193. So, it thought that obtaining further information on top of the income and expenditure
data would have been disproportionate.
Mrs W gave this service some bank statements from the months leading up to Vanquis offer 
to increase her credit limit.  
My second provisional decision
As Mrs W gave this service some bank statements, I reconsidered her complaint as I said I 
would do in my first provisional decision. I issued my second provisional decision on 15 
December 2021. 
In summary, I said that despite Vanquiss comments about carrying out adequate checks, I 
thought it should still have done more to assess whether the increased credit limit would be 
affordable to Mrs W.
From looking at Mrs Ws bank statements, I could see that she had regular monthly 
outgoings on credit, utilities, rent, catalogue accounts and high cost credit loans of around 
£1,040 against a monthly income of about £1,300, leaving very little left for everyday living 
costs. Particularly as she told Vanquis that she had a dependant living with her. 
Vanquis recorded a net monthly income of £2,380 which included £1,000 of household
income. But I wasnt persuaded that Vanquis asked enough questions to determine whether
that income was available to Mrs W for the repayment of the credit.
From looking at Mrs Ws credit card statements with Vanquis, once the increase in credit
limit was applied to her account, she continued to use the account to make cash 
withdrawals. And a few months later, Mrs W had reached her credit limit. 
I considered it likely that with better checks, Vanquis wouldve seen that Mrs W couldnt 
afford her repayments in a sustainable way. Particularly as Vanquis wouldve discovered that 
Mrs W was borrowing from at least four high cost credit providers in the months leading up
to the credit limit increase. Again, a strong indication that Mrs W wasnt managing her
finances and couldnt afford to take on more credit.
I thought if Vanquis had carried out the kinds of checks I considered were reasonable and 
proportionate at the time, it wouldnt have agreed to increase Mrs Ws credit limit in 2019. As I intended upholding Mrs Ws complaint in part, I set out what Vanquis should do to put 
things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mrs W nor Vanquis made any further comments in response to my second 
provisional decision. In the circumstances, I still consider it reasonable to make my final 
decision along the same lines. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Vanquis Bank Limited should:
Rework the credit card account so that all interest and fees that arose because of the
credit limit increase in 2019 are removed. Any interest after that date can only be 
charged on the balance outstanding before the credit limit increase was applied.
AND
If an outstanding debit balance remains after the account has been reworked, 
Vanquis Bank Limited should seek to agree a suitable repayment plan with Mrs W. 
And Vanquis Bank Limited should amend the balance outstanding recorded with the 
credit reference agencies for the period since it increased the credit limit.
OR
If there is no outstanding balance after the account has been reworked, Vanquis 
Bank Limited should pay any credit balance in the account to Mrs W with 8% interest 
on that balance. In these circumstances, any negative information recorded with the 
credit reference agencies after the credit limit increase in 2019 should also be 
removed.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I require 
Vanquis Bank Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman