DRN-2906292
The complaint
Mr T and the estate of Mrs T say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
I am sorry to see Mrs T has passed away. In the hope that Mr T and the late Mrs Ts estate 
wont mind, I will refer to her as Mrs T in my decision.
Summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They say 
they applied for the mortgage and PPI policy during a phone call. Nationwide hasnt been 
able to say how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs T. 
The policy provided cover for Mr T only for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £350 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. It also provided an additional £50 cash 
benefit. At the time, it cost £19.96 a month. 
At the time, Mr T was employed as a body shop trimmer. Mr T has told us he was not 
entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying his mortgage should he 
be unable to work. Mr T has said he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage agreement Mr and Mrs T had 
ended in 2003.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ts representative say:
Nationwide failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs 
Ts representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Nationwide should 
have told Mr and Mrs T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs T 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest ever long-term transaction  cover would stop just at 
the time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs T received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2003. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI CodeThe ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Building Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman 
was required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If Nationwide gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given 
their needs and circumstances. 
- Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs T, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs T 
suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs T know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs T say the PPI was arranged during a phone call. Nationwide isnt able to provide 
a copy of this call or any paperwork from the time the sale took place  this is unfortunate, 
but unsurprising for a sale that took place from so long ago, and businesses arent required 
to keep records indefinitely.
So Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ts comments alongside what we know in general about how 
Nationwide sold PPI at the time to decide whats more likely to have happened. Based on 
what I know about how Nationwide sold PPI I wouldve expected this discussion with the 
representative to involve a decision about the level of cover and to set up the policy. In Mr 
and Mrs Ts case, it was decided Mr T would be covered only. I also think its likely Mr and 
Mrs T wouldve had to complete some paperwork at the time, and this is likely to have 
reflected the discussions they had during the sales phone call. 
Nationwide has also provided a copy of renewal information Mr and Mrs T wouldve been 
sent on a yearly basis. Mr and Mrs T wouldve had the chance to review this and raise any 
queries they had about the cover.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs T knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure
did Nationwide provide advice?
Mr and Mrs T havent said whether Nationwide provided them with advice. Nationwide has 
said it didnt provide advice to Mr and Mrs T. based on what we know about how Nationwide 
sold PPI with mortgages at the time I dont think its likely Nationwide provided Mr and Mrs T 
with advice.   
This means Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs T. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to 
make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs T were given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mr T was 
unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs. 
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would have taken out 
the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might 
be.
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs T agreed to take out the policy. So I dont think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ts. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be 
poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained the significance of them to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court 
would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide ought to have done either. 
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs T. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr and 
Mrs T would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs T say they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs T had to weigh up in their own mind the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr and Mrs T being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs T chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude they had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs T thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed 
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs T have suffered any loss or 
detriment. Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Nationwide told them the exact premium at the 
point they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs T would have 
been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised that with Nationwide at the time, or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs T would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs T would get 
back in return in the event Mr T made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
Ts expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage payment) were significantly different to what the policy 
actually did  if anything, its more likely than not the policy actually paid more in the event of 
a claim than they would have expected as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to pre-existing conditions. This meant claims 
which arose directly from any existing defect or chronic or recurring disease, or other 
condition, which Mr T was aware of at the date of signing the application for the cover 
or for which he had suffered from in the 12 months immediately before the cover 
commenced. This exclusion would only have applied for the first 12 months of cover.
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr T 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr T be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have 
dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from 
taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Mr T was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to them should the 
insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr T 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr T didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence 
to support that claim.If Mr and Mrs T had known they could only claim for disability if Mr T was unable to do both 
his job and any similar gainful occupation which in the insurers view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would have done. 
And I accept it may have given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not 
have been overly concerned given that if Mr T was unable (through disability) to carry on his 
own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Nationwide may not have told Mr and Mrs T that any claim they made would be limited to a 
12-month period. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for 
 but Mr T didnt have any other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs T would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences should Mr T be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was not placed at risk. 
Nationwide has told us that Mr and Mrs T made a successful claim under the policy in 2002, 
which demonstrates the benefits of the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting and provided benefits that would help them 
manage the consequences if Mr T was made redundant, or unable to work through accident 
or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ts circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs T found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed 
to give proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken 
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs T compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs T think Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some 
of Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide gave Mr and 
Mrs T, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect it to have met in 1999 when providing information about an insurance 
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Nationwide negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs T and 
about the remedy a court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better position than if 
everything had happened as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and the 
estate of Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman