DRN-2768574
The complaint
Mr L complains on behalf of his businesses that Santander UK Plc blocked the accounts and 
didnt notify him about this.
What happened
Mr L explains that he found out that one of his business accounts was blocked when he tried 
to make a payment online. He says he was told that someone had tried to pay in money 
fraudulently. And Santander couldnt tell him how long an investigation would take. He also 
found that the account of his other business was blocked too which resulted in bounced 
cheques.
Santander said it didnt make any mistake. It had received a report from a different financial 
business about an attempted fraudulent payment of £922 to Mr Ls business. It blocked that 
account and linked accounts in line with its process. The blocks were removed within 24 
hours.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Santander had 
acted within its terms and conditions when it reasonably suspected an attempt had been 
made to use the business account fraudulently. He wouldnt have expected it to contact Mr L 
first and this was to ensure a fraudster cant move any fraudulent funds on. The accounts 
were back in normal operation within a reasonable period of time. There is no more 
information about what happened.
Mr L didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. He thought that this service was 
looking after the banks and so it was acceptable to treat honest people as criminals. Given 
the sophistication of systems today it should have been possible to show that this had 
nothing to do with him or his businesses. And he is frustrated not to know any more about 
what had happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts here are that a fraudster tried to make a payment from a third partys account to 
one of Mr Ls businesses. I think it was reasonable for Santander to have concerns about 
that and how if the payment had been successful it would have been accessed from the 
business account.
Santander acted in line with its normal processes and we dont have a role in saying what 
those should be as we arent the regulator. While it restricted the accounts it also protected 
them from any possible fraudulent activity. Santander couldnt know what risks were present 
until it had completed its investigation. Here it made the checks in less than a 24-hour period 
and the accounts could then operate normally. I can see from its case notes that it offered at 
the time to write a letter Mr L could give to the clients of his business that were affected to 
explain what happened.
There was no successful fraud here and as the investigator says there wont be any further 
information. And I think that it was the fraudster who was really responsible for 
inconvenience to Mr Ls businesses. As Ive explained I dont have a basis to find that 
Santander acted unreasonably, and so I wont be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman