DRN-2871127
The complaint
Mr W complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix Life) gave him inaccurate retirement 
projections.  
What happened
As the dates and events are well known to both parties, I only intend to set out those that 
I think are key to reaching my decision.
Mr W held a Section 32 buyout pension with Phoenix Life, which had a guaranteed minimum 
pension (GMP) of £8,121.36 per annum (pa) with a maturity date of 8 March 2021. In 2019, 
Phoenix Life told Mr W that his plan would need recalculating on maturity as it was unlikely 
to cover the GMP. And that if the recalculation was done at the time of its letter it would offer 
a total pension of £12,498 pa. Shortly after, Mr Ws adviser clarified this was an estimate of 
what could be available to him at maturity. 
In December 2019, Mr W retired from his job. And, in October and November 2020, 
Phoenix Life sent him four retirement packs with different information about whether he 
might achieve anything in excess of the GMP on maturity. At the end of November 2020, 
Mr W was told that one of the packs incorrectly said this would be £3,648.48 pa when it had 
estimated this could actually be £1,694.40 pa. 
In December 2020, Mr W complained to Phoenix Life that this recent figure alongside the 
GMP is £2,682.24 pa less in total than what he was told hed achieve in 2019. And that hed 
retired expecting a similar amount on maturity.  
In response, Phoenix Life said the calculation method it used in 2019 didnt take into account 
that a GMP was attached to his plan. And that if it had the projection would have been 
similar to what it most recently told him. It offered him £300 compensation for this but said it 
isnt responsible for any decisions he made as a result, as the projection was an estimate. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W came to our Service. One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ws 
complaint. He said that while Phoenix Life made an error in 2019, its letters were clear the 
only guarantee was the GMP and that the £12,498 pa was an estimate. And that he wasnt 
satisfied Mr W wouldve done anything differently if not for this error. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said that while he accepts the figure he was given in 2019 was an 
estimate, he could have made more of an informed decision if Phoenix Life had used the 
correct calculation method. Mr W said he calculated an income from his other schemes and 
savings to March 2021, when he expected to achieve £12,498 pa from Phoenix Life as his 
largest scheme. And that if hed known this would be far less he would have carried on 
working until he could claim his state pension in March 2022 to save him having to use as 
much of his savings. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. Mr W has since told us hes 
experienced more recent issues with Phoenix Life relating to his policy benefits. And our 
Investigator clarified that this wouldnt be addressed as part of this decision, as this would 
need to be raised with Phoenix Life separately as a new complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking Phoenix Life to do anything further, for largely the same 
reasons as our Investigator.
It isnt in dispute that Phoenix Life has made errors. In particular that it used an incorrect 
method in 2019 to project the annual pension Mr W might be entitled to, which meant he was 
given an estimate that wasnt as accurate as it could have been. 
That being said, the figure Mr W was given of £12,498 pa was still just an estimate of what 
he might achieve on the maturity of his policy, which wasnt for another 15 months. 
Phoenix Life told Mr Ws adviser this was an estimate and Mr W accepts that it was such. So 
its reasonable to think that he understood when planning his retirement that this meant he 
could achieve more or less that that, as anything above the GMP amount of £8,121.36 pa 
wasnt guaranteed. And, as Mr W chose to make serious decisions based on something that 
wasnt guaranteed, I cant fairly hold Phoenix Life responsible for his decision to retire when 
he did or the £2,682.24 pa loss in income he said hes experienced as a result.
I do think Phoenix Lifes continued errors have caused Mr W disappointment, frustration and 
confusion though. And I appreciate hes spent time clarifying matters, especially given the 
differing correspondence he received in 2020. But Phoenix Life has recognised these errors 
and I think the £300 compensation its offered is a fair and reasonable amount to make up 
for this in the circumstances. So Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has already offered to pay Mr W £300 compensation to settle this 
complaint and I think its offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that it should 
pay him this if it hasnt already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman