DRN-3962008
The complaint
Mr S complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his private 
medical health insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr S has been a member of BUPA for many years. His 
membership for the purposes of this complaint began in June 2022. Mr S cover was for  
the Extended Choice Recognised Facility network.  
In or around October 2022, Mr S made a claim against his policy in relation to hip 
replacement surgery. BUPA told him that the hospital he chose wasnt included in his 
extended choice recognised facility network. That meant it would reimburse only 60% of 
the costs of treatment. I understand that Mr S had the surgery in December 2022.
Mr S thinks that BUPA acted unfairly. His preferred consultant offered treatment at a 
hospital that isnt in his extended choice recognised facility network. Mr S says that the 
cost of his treatment is the same at his preferred hospital and at the hospital within his 
extended choice recognised facility network. He thinks its unfair for BUPA to rely on a 
term of his membership which says that if the treatment takes place at a hospital outside 
his facility network, it only pays 60% of the cost. Mr S says that as the term is unfair 
BUPA cant rely on it. 
Mr S says that the term is inconsistent with other terms in the policy which provide that in 
certain circumstances, BUPA will pay up to the amount of its tariff where a member 
incurs costs in excess of that. Mr S thinks that approach is fair. He wants BUPA to pay in 
full the hospital costs of his preferred hospital outside his facility network. Mr S also 
complains that the details on BUPAs facilities finder website were incorrect. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that the relevant 
term was clear and consistent, and that BUPA acted fairly and reasonably in relying on 
it. The investigator said that Mr S paid a lower premium because he opted for a limited 
extended facilities list. So, she didnt think it was fair to ask BUPA to offer cover which  
Mr S hadnt selected and paid for. The investigator noted that BUPA made its position 
clear several times before Mr S had surgery and that it offered to guide Mr S to another 
facility and consultant within his cover.  
The investigator said that BUPA wasnt responsible for out of date information on its 
Finder webpage, as its for consultants to keep that updated and theres a disclaimer to 
that effect on the webpage. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He responded at some length, which I wont set 
out here. In summary. Mr S said that he wants BUPA to pay his claim up to the level of 
cover his membership provides and for which hes paid his subscription. He referred to 
extracts of previous decisions by this service and terms offered by other insurers.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr S has very strong feelings about this matter. He 
has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and 
considered. Ive summarised the complaint in less detail. I trust that Mr S will not take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that is whether 
BUPA acted fairly and reasonably in its handling of his claim. Thats consistent with this 
services role as an informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt  because Ive overlooked it. Im satisfied that I dont need to comment on 
every individual point raised in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome 
in this case.   
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr S membership. The membership 
certificate includes the following: 
[] We do not pay for any Benefit mentioned in the Benefits Table of the accompanying 
Policy Benefits and Terms booklet, unless it is included in section seven of this Certificate.
[]
Recognised Facilities  we pay their charges in full
Charges from a facility that is Bupa recognised but isnt one of the facilities you have chosen 
as part of your Recognised Facility network (as shown in Section seven of this Certificate)  
we pay 60% of each claim and you pay 40%.
Section Seven
Cover details
This section outlines the Benefits that apply to your policy. Call the helpline if you are unsure 
of your Benefits.
Important information about your chosen Recognised Facility network
The following members have access to the Extended Choice Recognised Facility network:
[Mr S]
Extended Choice  a hospital or a Treatment facility, centre or unit, at the time you receive 
your Eligible Treatment, is in our Extended Choice facility list that applies to your Benefits 
and is recognised by us for treating your medical condition and carrying out the Treatment 
you need.
You can ask us if a hospital or a Treatment facility, centre or unit is in your Recognised 
Facility network or you can access these details at finder.bupa.co.uk.
At renewal you can ask us to change your chosen Recognised Facility network. Any 
changes may affect the subscriptions you have to pay.The policy benefits and terms booklet says:
Important information
[]
2. Your Membership Certificate sets out the details of the cover you have chosen. We do not 
pay for any Benefit listed in this Table unless it is included on your Membership Certificate. 
[]
has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mr S complaint because I dont think that BUPA treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:   
BUPA membership isnt designed to cover every eventuality or situation. In general 
terms, an insurer can decide what risks its willing to cover and on what terms. The 
onus is on the insured to show that the claim falls within the terms of the 
membership. 
Mr S membership doesnt provide reimbursement for the cost of treatment up to a 
certain monetary value. Instead, it provides reimbursement in full for charges for 
eligible treatment from a facility within Mr S extended choice recognised facility 
network and 60% of the cost from a facility thats recognised by Bupa but isnt one 
of the facilities which is part of his extended choice recognised facility network. 
I acknowledge the concerns Mr S has about the relevant term of his membership  
and the Consumer Rights Act 2015, but I dont think that the term is unfair. Its 
common ground that the term is clear and transparent. I dont think that the term 
causes a significant imbalance between Mr S and BUPA. Ill explain why. 
To proceed as Mr S suggests would ignore the fact that BUPA priced Mr S 
subscription taking into account the selection hed made in relation to his 
recognised facility network. If Mr S had chosen the network which included his 
preferred hospital, his subscriptions would have been higher. I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to direct BUPA to deal with Mr S claim as if hed made a 
different choice about his recognised facility network. 
In some circumstances, for example where a recognised provider charges more 
than BUPAs benefit limits or where theres a proven treatment thats more 
expensive than the one the majority of its members received, BUPA will reimburse 
up to its usual limits. I think thats fair and reasonable. I dont think those terms 
mean that BUPA should reimburse Mr S for the total costs of a hospital not on his  
recognised facility network. To do so would ignore the fact that Mr S didnt choose 
the level of cover which would lead to reimbursement of all of the charges from his 
preferred hospital. Mr S has referred to extracts of previous decisions by this service. Each case is 
considered on its own merits. In some cases, we direct insurers to go beyond the 
policy terms in order to achieve a fair and reasonable outcome. Ive thought about 
whether it would be fair and reasonable in this case to direct BUPA to reimburse  
Mr S for the total cost of his treatment, but I dont think it would. Thats because to 
do so would ignore the fact that Mr S chose a limited recognised facility network 
which reduced his subscription. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
direct BUPA to deal with Mr S claim as if he had cover he didnt select and pay for.
It would have been better if BUPAs Finder webpage had contained accurate 
information, but I dont think that Mr S was misled: its clear that he understood 
BUPAs position before he proceeded. BUPA says that its for consultants to keep 
that information updated and theres a disclaimer to that effect on the webpage.
I appreciate Mr S strength of feeling about this matter but for the reasons Ive 
explained, there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct BUPA to pay his claim 
in full. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman