DRN-2513945
The complaint
 Mr K has complained that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) gave him unaffordable 
loans. 
What happened
Mr K took 13 short-term loans from Cashfloat between January 2017 and December 2018. 
A summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us by Cashfloat, can be 
found below:
loan 
no.date taken date repaidNo. of 
monthly 
Instalmentsamount borrowed
1 19/01/2017 17/02/2017 1 £250.00
2 18/02/2017 12/04/2017 2 £300.00
3 12/04/2017 19/05/2017 1 £300.00
4 19/05/2017 21/07/2017 2 £300.00
5 23/07/2017 15/09/2017 2 £350.00
6 16/09/2017 22/11/2017 3 £550.00
7 22/11/2017 11/02/2018 3 £600.00
8 11/02/2018 25/04/2018 3 £500.00
9 28/04/2018 16/05/2018 1 £300.00
10 18/05/2018 03/08/2018 3 £350.00
11 11/08/2018 05/10/2018 2 £250.00
12 28/10/2018 20/11/2018 2 £200.00
13 22/12/2018 15/02/2019 2 £200.00
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ks complaint. She thought that the credit check 
information provided by Cashfloat showed all of Mr Ks loans were unaffordable. So, the 
adjudicator didnt think Cashfloat shouldve approved any of these loans.
It appears that Mr K agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Cashfloat disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In response it made a number 
of points, in summary it said;
The regulator doesnt say loans shouldnt be approved because a consumer may 
have had loans in the previous months.  
These loans are designed to be approved quickly for people with less than perfect 
credit scores.
Mr Ks level of borrowing was low compared to his verified income. 
Mr Ks credit check results didnt show any defaults or CCJs and there were no 
indicators of debt stress.
Mr Ks declared monthly credit commitments was low compared to his debt. 
The credit report given to Cashfloat didnt always correctly show the repayments that 
Mr K was committed to making.  
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time these loans were provided. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. And I think Cashfloat were wrong to 
approve all of Mr Ks loans. Ive explained why below.
When Mr K applied for his first loan, Cashfloat asked him to declare his monthly income and 
expenditure. Mr K informed it that he had an income of £2,200 and his monthly expenditure 
totalled £700. This left him with a disposable income of around £1,500 from which to meet 
his monthly repayment of £308.
The loan repayments may have appeared affordable based on what Mr K told Cashfloat 
about his circumstances. But Cashfloat gathered information showing this was not the case.
Cashfloat completed a credit check each time Mr K applied for his loans. The credit check 
results at the time of Mr Ks first loan application showed Mr K had 15 active accounts, the 
balances of these accounts totalled £10,523. His loan balances totalled £3,999 and his 
revolving credit balances totalled £5,017. Whilst this information, on its own, was not 
necessarily concerning, Cashfloat was aware of other adverse information showing Mr Ks 
circumstances were significantly different to what he had declared.Cashfloat was also aware he had opened 31 credit accounts within the previous six months. 
So, Mr Ks recent borrowing history suggested his financial situation had deteriorated, as this 
suggested he had opened on average five credit accounts a month in the previous six 
months. This high account turnover and the number of credit searches picked up on the 
credit check results could reasonably suggest Mr K was taking out a significant number of 
short-term loans. This is something which should have concerned Cashfloat, as this 
suggested Mr K was struggling to meet his normal monthly living costs without borrowing 
from creditors. 
This information led me to look at Mr Ks credit check in more detail. Mr K seems to have 
borrowed a significantly high number of short-term loans, and he had a number outstanding 
when the first loan was approved. Whilst Mr K had declared his credit commitments and loan 
repayments were around £330 each month, Cashfloat would have known that this was not 
the case, and that Mr Ks actual total repayments were greater than this. 
I acknowledge that Cashfloat relied on what Mr K told it about his circumstances and that the 
repayments appeared affordable based on this information. But responsible lending is not 
about whether the loan is pounds and pence affordable. Its about the risk to the consumer 
of being able to repay what is lent, and whether the repayments are sustainable over the 
term of the loan. And Cashfloat gathered information showing any further lending was likely 
to have certainly been detrimental to Mr Ks financial position. It couldnt simply just ignore 
this information.
Ive also considered Cashfloats comments about Mr Ks partners income and that Mr K had 
told it that his partner was willing to contribute to the repayments. But regardless of whether 
Mr Ks partner was able to contribute to these loan repayments, the credit checks should 
have shown there was enough concerns in Mr Ks circumstances which made him return for 
more credit.
Ive also looked at the credit checks results for Mr Ks subsequent four loans and these 
checks only show that his circumstances were deteriorating. Mr K continued to take out a 
significant number of new credit accounts within a short period of time, and his overall 
indebtedness increased over the initial course of his borrowing relationship with Cashfloat. 
So, I think Cashfloat were wrong to approve these loans. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Cashfloats lending history with Mr K, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans, without the need for me to examine income and 
expenditure information in detail for each loan application. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ks case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Cashfloat ought to have realised Mr K was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr K had taken out six loans in nine months and had been 
indebted to Cashfloat for this entire time, bar three days. So Cashfloat ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr K was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ks 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ks first loan was for £250 and loan 6 was for £550, his largest loan to date  
albeit I accept this was due to be repaid over a longer period of time. At this point 
Cashfloat ought to have known that Mr K was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. From loan 6 onwards Mr K was provided with a new loan within a matter of days of 
settling a previous one. Which in my view, is another indication that Mr K was using 
these loans to meet an ongoing need. 
So, while I dont think Cashfloat should have approved any of Mr Ks loans based on the 
information it gathered, for loans 6-13, the lender repeatedly lent to Mr K in an unsustainable 
manner because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended period; 
and
The length of time over which Mr K borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost loans
As a result, I think Cashfloat were wrong to approve all of Mr Ks loans.
Putting things right
 In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr K, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
To put things right for Mr K, Cashfloat should:
Refund all interest, fees and charges that Mr K paid for all of his loans. 
Add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
Cashfloat should remove any adverse information recorded about loans 1-5 from    
Mr Ks credit file. The overall pattern of Mr Ks borrowing for loans 6-13 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so you should remove these loans 
entirely from Mr Ks credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Western Circle Ltd should put things right for Mr K as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman