DRN-3688977
The complaint
The trustees of a trust I shall call S complain about the handling by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
of cheque payments made to the trusts beneficiaries and about how the bank sought to 
address the issue.
What happened
In December 2021, the trustees of S issued some cheques from S to its beneficiaries. 
Barclays declined most of these cheques due to concerns about the cheque signatures not 
matching those on the mandate. Barclays says that it sought to contact each of the trustees 
and left a message for one of them; though the trustees say they were not contacted.
In early January 2022, one of the trustees, who I shall call Mr C, contacted Barclays and 
discovered that the bank held the wrong mobile number for him. This was disappointing 
given the tenure of his relationship with Barclays. However, Barclays says that it had sought 
to contact Mr C on his home number, which was correct, so it did not contribute to the 
problems in this case. Barclays told Mr C to go into a Barclays branch to update his 
signature on the mandate.
Later in January, Mr C attended his local Barclays branch where, through a lengthy process, 
he was able to complete the paperwork requested. However, Barclays later told him that he 
had been mis-advised, and the mandate could not be updated in this way. The trip had 
therefore been a waste of time.
Subsequently, further cheques issued by the trustees of S to the trusts beneficiaries were 
also stopped, and for the same reason. On one occasion Barclays phoned Mr C who was 
able to confirm the cheque was genuine and this payment was cleared. However, on other 
occasions, Barclays was unable to reach the trustees, so the payments were rejected.
Given the repeated issue, Barclays contacted its third party which processes cheque 
payments to see if a marker had been placed on Ss account due to the concerns about non-
matching signatures. In late January, the third party confirmed that this marker would be 
removed.
The trustees complained to Barclays. They were unhappy that:
Barclays should not have stopped the cheques as the differences between the 
signatures on the cheques and those on the mandate were tiny.
In each case when a cheque was stopped, Barclays should have contacted the 
trustees to gain approval for the cheque, so that it could be released and processed.
Barclays had mis-advised Mr C that he should attend a Barclays branch to update 
the mandate.
Barclays apologised for mis-advising Mr C to attend his local branch to update his signature 
on the mandate and offered him £100 in compensation. However, Barclays said that Ss 
cheques were rejected due to the signatures on the cheques not matching the signatures on 
the mandate. It said there was no error in this process as there were differences, and the 
process is there to protect funds in the customers account. It acknowledged that a marker 
had been applied to Ss account, given the concerns, which would have prompted extra 
checks, but this was removed promptly following discussions with Mr C. Barclays said that it 
called the trustees on each occasion that a cheque was stopped to confirm if it was genuine, 
but in most cases was unable to get through. 
In response to the trustees complaint, Barclays also said that it would facilitate Mr C 
emailing a list of cheque payments in advance to avoid them being stopped. Although 
helpful, this was also a source of frustration for Mr C as he had previously requested this and 
been told it wasnt possible.
Not content with Barclays response, the trustees of S brought their complaint to our service. 
Mr C described the offer from Barclays of £100 as derisory. He said that compensation of 
£1,000 would be appropriate to cover the time and inconvenience incurred, and to reflect the 
poor service and false information provided.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but said that, in his view, Barclays offer was fair. 
The trustees of S didnt agree with this view, so they asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the sequence of events, I can understand why Mr C and his fellow trustees 
felt deeply frustrated at their cheques repeatedly being stopped, and at the process to get 
the issues addressed.
However, having looked at the processes followed by Barclays, I dont think the bank (or its 
agents) did anything wrong in how they reviewed the cheques, stopped them or applied a 
marker to note their concerns. There is clearly some judgement required in comparing 
signatures, but there were differences between the signatures on the cheques and those on 
the mandate so I dont believe it was unreasonable to raise concerns. These processes are 
important to protect against fraudulent payments and, unfortunately, they will sometimes 
inhibit genuine payments too.
I have looked into whether Barclays made sufficient efforts to contact the trustees of S each 
time a payment was stopped, and Im satisfied that it did. Unfortunately, in most cases it was 
unable to reach a trustee to confirm the payment but, having reviewed the evidence 
available, I do believe that each time a payment was stopped, Barclays did seek to reach the 
trustees by phone.
Barclays did make a mistake in falsely instructing Mr C to attend a local branch to update his 
signature on the mandate. This was a waste of his time and caused a lot of frustration. This 
is the part of the complaint I uphold. Barclays has apologised for this and offered a small 
amount (£100) in compensation. Although I know Mr C thinks more compensation is 
warranted, given the issues were subsequently addressed, I believe this amount is 
reasonable in the circumstances and is broadly what I would have awarded.
I can also appreciate Mr Cs frustration that, despite being told that his proposal to pre-
approve cheque payments by emailing a list in advance wasnt possible, he was later told 
this could be done. However, as this was provided as an interim and exceptional solution 
until the signature on the mandate could be changed, I believe this is reasonable.I am aware that this isnt the response the trustees of S would have been hoping for. 
However, having considered carefully the full sequence of events and investigated the 
matter closely, I dont believe I can fairly ask Barclays to do any more.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay S the £100 it has 
offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Trustees of S 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman