DRN-3835644
The complaint
Miss L complains that Pay Later Financial Services Limited trading as Fly Now Pay Later 
hasnt provided a full refund of money shes paid for flight bookings that were cancelled.
What happened
Miss L made flight bookings through a third party A, which were funded by a fixed sum loan 
agreement provided by Fly Now Pay Later (FNPL). Unfortunately the flights were 
scheduled to take place during the Covid-19 pandemic and didnt go ahead.
As I understand it, FNPL was able to recover from A some of the money for the flights and 
this was offset against the loan balance. However, Miss L remained out of pocket and 
sought to recover the remaining sum including the loan payments shed made. Shes 
unhappy that FNPL continued to hold her liable for the loan and that it wont refund her. 
FNPL says that it hasnt got any record of receiving further payment from A other than the 
£815 it applied to Miss Ls loan account.
Our investigator considered that the way the finance transaction was structured gave rise to 
a breach of contract claim from Miss L against FNPL under the connected lender liability 
provisions of section75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). She noted that 
section 75 provided for FNPL to be liable for a contractual breach by A, and was satisfied 
that As agreement with Miss L entitled her to a full refund of all money paid. This hadnt 
happened, so the investigator thought it likely that FNPL was liable for the breach. She 
proposed that FNPL pay Miss L the rest of the money  with interest  along with £100 to 
reflect the problems Miss L had experienced due to FNPLs handling of the claim.
Miss L accepted the investigators proposal. But FNPL did not, saying that it was unclear 
whether the airline had refunded A and that it needed to know this in order to establish 
where the breach of contract rested. Our investigator wasnt persuaded that this had a 
significant impact on FNPLs liability to Miss L, and the matter has been passed to me for 
review and determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I take a similar view to our investigator. Im satisfied that the 
necessary elements of a valid section 75 breach of contract claim are in place, and that 
FNPL has a potential liability for that claim. I see no obvious reason why Miss L would not 
have a claim against A in breach of contract in respect of its failure to provide her with a full 
refund, as the terms of her booking appear to entitle her to. That entitlement doesnt appear 
to be contingent on A first being able to recover the money from the airline. So I dont find 
FNPL has treated Miss L fairly in deciding not to meet that claim on the basis of it not 
knowing whether A has recovered the money (or indeed, whether A has paid any more 
money to FNPL).
FNPL is of course free to make further enquiries in relation to those points. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Miss L has herself recovered payment directly from A or from the 
airline such that FNPLs liability to her is affected. And I think the way in which FNPL has 
approached the claim has caused some degree of avoidable difficulty to Miss L, for which 
she should be compensated.
I know Miss L did question the amount of £100 our investigator proposed in this respect, but 
I think its a fair reflection of the extent to which FNPL is responsible for the situation. Its 
important to recognise that her dissatisfaction doesnt rest solely with FNPL, and that such 
awards arent intended to act as a punishment or fine against the firm in question. 
Putting things right
As I understand it, Miss L had a total of £1,630 to pay in respect of the loan agreement. This 
was reduced by £815 due to the money FNPL recovered from A. For the reasons Ive 
mentioned, she should have received a full refund. Shes been deprived of the use of this 
money from the date she made each payment. So it seems fair to me that FNPL pays Miss L 
the remaining £815, along with 8% annual simple interest calculated from the date she made 
each payment after her claim should have been met until the date of settlement. FNPL 
should also pay Miss L £100 in recognition of her distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Pay Later Financial Services 
Limited trading as Fly Now Pay Later to settle it as Ive set out above. It should do so within 
28 days of receiving Miss Ls acceptance of this decision.
If Pay Later Financial Services Limited trading as Fly Now Pay Later deducts tax from any 
part of this award, it should inform Miss L that it has done so, specify the amount it has 
deducted and provide her with a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, to allow her to 
reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman