DRN-3739644
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unreasonably has asked 
him to pay for fraudulent transactions on his credit card when he was in prison. 
What happened
Mr S was in prison from 13 September 2016 to 24 December 2021. Mr S said that on his 
release Halifax said a debt of over £14,000 had accumulated on his credit card from late 
2016 to early 2018 which Mr S must now repay.  
Mr S said these transactions were nothing to do with him as he was in prison. Halifax 
wouldnt change its stance and has in fact sold on the debt to another organisation who are 
now chasing Mr S to repay it. So, Mr S brought his complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view that it shouldnt be upheld. She thought the pattern of 
transactions were normal daily living expenses and were likely made by someone known to 
Mr S with his consent. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said his 75-year-old father lived in the house where the card had been 
kept, but he couldnt speak or read English. Mr S also said his brother who died in 2019 also 
lived in the house. 
Following the investigators view, Mr S has said he thinks his brother made these 
transactions but not with Mr S consent. Therefore, Mr S complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, Ill now explain why.
In taking out a credit card which Mr S did here with Halifax in 2010, Mr S agreed that his 
card would be used with a PIN which only he would have access to. Mr S said his card was 
left in his wallet at home and the PIN was probably written in a diary. Based on this, its 
possible that someone with access to his home could have obtained these to make 
unauthorised payments. But its not very clear how they would know where to find the 
separate card and PIN.
Halifax said for all of these transactions in dispute, the correct PIN was used when 
applicable. So it doesnt seem to be in dispute that the payments were correctly 
authenticated. The question is whether they were made with Mr S consent. And that comes 
down to whether either he made them  or someone acting as his agent did. In effect, what 
this means is that if Mr S shared his credit token (i.e. his card) and other details (such as the 
PIN) which are needed to make these payments, with someone else, theyre deemed to be 
authorised by him. Thats the case even if the person with whom those details were shared 
carried out more transactions that Mr S expected or agreed to. This is known as apparent 
authority. 
The credit card was used over a significant period for general spending. The credit limit was 
never exceeded, and payments were made to it regularly over an extended period of time 
which add up to a significant amount (over £7,000). If the card and PIN were gained 
fraudulently, youd normally expect the credit limit to be fully utilised as quickly as possible. 
Its also unclear why a fraudster  with no liability for the account  would make repayments, 
as it appears the user did here. More so given that Mr S has told us he wasnt using the 
card. In view of this, alongside the lack of clarity about a point of compromise for card and 
PIN, it seems more likely to me that this was authorised spending.
There was also no activity on Mr S card which would trigger any detection by the banks 
system of fraudulent activity. 
I therefore dont consider it unfair that Halifax holds Mr S liable for this debt. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman