DRN-1066531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a mortgage in 1999.
What happened
In November 1999 Mr and Mrs T applied for a mortgage. At the same time, they bought a 
PPI policy. The PPI was in joint names and could have paid up to £300 a month if they'd 
been off work sick or lost their jobs.
Mr and Mrs T think the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs T 
didn't agree. The complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first looked at whether Mr and Mrs T knew they were buying PPI, and whether they 
chose to buy it. Mr and Mrs T say they didn't know they'd applied for PPI - they say there 
was no mention of insurance. They say it was a surprise that they had PPI on the mortgage. 
I've thought about what they've said alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
HSBC has sent us the paperwork and records from when the policy was sold. Based on 
what I've seen, Mr and Mrs T met an advisor from HSBC on 8 November and 11 November 
1999. The advisor carried out a full review of their personal finances. The information the 
advisor recorded at the time says he identified a need for Mr and Mrs T to protect the 
monthly repayment of their mortgage against either of them being unable to work because of 
accident, sickness and unemployment. And I've seen a record of a letter sent by the advisor 
to Mr and Mrs T, which said he'd recommended the PPI.
HSBC has also provided an application form. The form has the heading "Mortgage 
repayment protector application form". Mr and Mrs T have both signed this application form. 
Mr and Mrs T also completed, and Mrs T signed, a separate direct debit instruction for the 
PPI.
So taken together, I'm satisfied that Mr and Mrs T knew they'd been sold a PPI policy with 
their mortgage - even if they don't now remember doing this. And I think it's most likely that 
Mr and Mrs T chose to buy it.HSBC recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs T - so it had to make sure the policy was right 
for them. Based on what I've seen of their circumstances, I think it was. 
Mr and Mrs T agreed to a mortgage, and so their home was at risk if they couldn't meet their 
monthly mortgage repayments. This policy would pay £300 a month for up to a year if Mr 
and Mrs T were off work sick or lost their jobs. I also note that Mr T has told us he didn't get 
sick pay if he was off work sick - and based on the time Mrs T had been working it doesn't 
look as though she'd get full pay for more than four weeks. So I think the policy would have 
been useful to them.
HSBC also had to give Mr and Mrs T the information they'd need to work out for themselves 
if they wanted the policy. But Mr and Mrs T don't appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didn't cover. The cost of the policy was set out in the paperwork. And 
they appear to have wanted this type of cover. So I'm not persuaded better information 
would have made a difference to their decision to buy the cover.
I've considered the other points Mr and Mrs T have raised. But these don't change my 
decision.
My final decision
I don't uphold Mr and Mrs T's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman