DRN-1709876
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (AmEx) didnt 
get back the money she spent on a mail order item that didnt arrive.
What happened
Mrs T ordered a number of items by mail order. She told us that when the parcel arrived, the 
most expensive item wasnt inside. She asked AmEx to make a chargeback for her. At first, 
it tried to process a chargeback for the wrong amount. Then it processed the chargeback for 
just the missing item, but the chargeback wasnt upheld. 
AmEx said it was right not to uphold the chargeback. It said that there just wasnt any 
evidence that the item wasnt delivered to Mrs T. It was sorry it had made mistakes in setting 
up her request. And it did make sure a disputed refund was paid to Mrs T, but it said human 
error caused a delay in paying that. It paid £50 in compensation to Mrs T. 
Our investigator looked at the chargeback request AmEx had made. And he didnt think this 
complaint should be upheld. He thought AmEx had processed the chargeback fairly. It had 
received information from the merchant to confirm that the parcel was delivered. And there 
was no evidence to suggest the item wasnt included in the parcel, or that it had been out of 
stock. Our investigator noted that AmEx paid £50 compensation, and he thought this 
provided a fair outcome. 
Our investigator checked that a s.75 claim couldnt also have been made for Mrs T, and 
information from AmEx and Mrs T confirmed that this purchase didnt qualify for that. He 
explained the position to Mrs T. then, as Mrs T wanted her complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same overall conclusion 
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
AmEx did make some mistakes in setting up Mrs Ts chargeback, and in processing a 
disputed refund. I think that the £50 it has paid is a fair amount to make up for that. 
But Mrs T also complains that AmEx didnt uphold her chargeback request. I understand her 
frustration, as she says she doesnt have her item, and she doesnt have the money either. 
But its not my role here to substitute my judgement for that of AmEx. I can only review what 
its done, against whats fair and reasonable. And I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for 
AmEx to decide that there isnt sufficient evidence to show this item wasnt delivered, and to 
refuse the chargeback request. 
I know that Mrs T will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman