DRN-3042781
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) that the benefits of a 
solar panel system were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
What happened
In late 2014, Mrs M was visited by a representative of a solar panel supply company, that Ill 
call P, to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. During the visit, Mrs M decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-
year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
Mrs M is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (the CMC). In 
2017, the CMC made a claim against Shawbrook on Mrs Ms behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mrs M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said that, amongst others, the 
following misrepresentations and failings had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £7,500.00 to 
mislead Mrs M  this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, so 
the true cost was £14,684.40;
Mrs M was promised a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £713.14 and this didnt take into 
account that, after making her loan repayments, Mrs M would have an annual deficit 
of what it said was £510.44;
the credit agreement would be self-funded by the Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) payments 
alone; and
the system would not cost her a penny.
The CMC also said that Mrs M had been pressurised into signing the agreement to purchase 
the system and Shawbrook had failed to assess Mrs Ms credit worthiness.
The CMC additionally raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an 
unfair relationship between Mrs M and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations 
that had been made about the systems expected performance and its failure to declare any 
commissions payable to P.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided: a copy of a record of a 
non-compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated 
December 2013, the contract that P had given Mrs M, copies of marketing material used by 
P, job adverts for P, the loan agreement with Shawbrook and some of Mrs Ms electricity bills 
and FIT statements. 
Mrs M has had difficulty making her payments for the loan. And since March 2015 hasnt 
paid the full amounts due each month. Shes also entered into a debt management 
arrangement. Given the default in repayments, Shawbrook sold Mrs Ms loan to another 
company at the end of 2015. Despite the responsibility for the loan now being with that 
company, Shawbrook has investigated Mrs Ms complaint and has accepted responsibility 
for dealing with it. In its final response to the complaint, Shawbrook didnt agree that there 
had been any misrepresentations and it didnt find any other reason to uphold Mrs Ms 
concerns. 
In summary, it said:
the fixed sum loan agreement was clear that the cash price of the system was 
£7,500.00 and the total amount payable, due to the associated interest, was 
£14,684.40;
the contract P had provided Mrs M set out the estimated total returns from the 
system and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was 
not self-funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved;
the contract with P showed that the expected annual return in year one was £489.59 
in terms of FIT and electricity export payments and electricity savings of £223.55, 
making a total estimated benefit of £713.14. The loan agreement repayments were 
£81.58 a month, or £978.96 over the year, so there would be a clear shortfall 
between the expected benefits and the loan repayments;
P said that Mrs M had raised no concerns about being pressurised into agreeing to 
the installation of the system and the associated finance, and she hadnt exercised 
her right to cancel the contract within the cancellation period. To support this, it had 
provided a satisfaction questionnaire in which Mrs M had confirmed that shed been 
happy with the sales process and hadnt felt under pressure;
the performance of the system and any deterioration of the panels are set out in the 
contract;
as part of her loan application, Shawbrook said it had completed a credit check to 
assess Mrs Ms credit worthiness and her ability to repay the loan. Mrs M had met its 
lending criteria; and
Shawbrook didnt pay any commission to P for introducing Mrs M to it.
Unhappy with Shawbrooks response, the CMC referred Mrs Ms complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mrs M and found no other reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
the quotation document used as evidence to support the investigators opinion was 
unsigned by Mrs M and it didnt believe she had received it or in any event would 
have understood it;Mrs M was presented with a written contract; therefore, P would not have produced a 
written contract if their process was also to send a signed electronic quotation. 
Therefore, this suggests the quotation has been generated, perhaps fraudulently as 
a way of defending this case; and,
it feels the investigator wasnt thorough enough in reaching their opinion and relied 
on a quotation that theres no evidence was sent.
It also suggested that we speak to Mrs M for her recollections. When our investigator spoke 
to Mrs M, she told us:
she wasnt entirely sure how shed initially registered her interest for the system but 
may have seen an advert on a social media platform;
P visited her at her home and advised her about her options;
the salesperson told her shed be doubling her money and be able to repay her loan 
in half the duration of her loan term;
the salesperson also told her shed be left with money each month and that it was the 
best thing she could do with her money; 
Mrs M was persuaded to buy the system via a loan agreement as it was good for the 
environment and financially beneficial  so a win win situation; 
Shed been receiving her FIT payments, but her energy costs seemed to be the 
same that theyd been before; and
She had been led to believe that shed save money on her bills. At the time, her 
household just had her sole income. She was financially comfortable, but she says 
she could have done with the extra money.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
As Mrs M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, both parties accept that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs M could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs M and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. For 
the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
I will consider below whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and Mrs Ms solar quote. Ive considered these in detail and 
whether they support the alleged representations made by P.The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Ms recollection of the sale.
As previously mentioned, the CMC doubts that Mrs M ever received the quotation document. 
Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. This detailed 
that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers shortly after the 
initial meeting via email. Based on our experience of what we have seen with similar 
complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, P would have sent this 
document to Mrs M. So, I have no reason to doubt thats what happened in this case. 
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The quotation document
Mrs M has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by her FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and thought 
about whether this supports what she says she was told, given that I think the quote was 
central to the sales presentation.
Page 10 of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs M could expect to receive by way of 
FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income over 20 
years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 years 
and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote. 
I think that these tables, especially the first one, clearly show that Mrs M could expect to 
receive a total income in year one of £489.59 from her FIT.
Page 10 of the quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs M could expect from her 
system as well as any savings she would make if she took out any optional extras like a 
voltage optimiser and an OWL heating control. The expected year one electricity savings are 
£223.55. And the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £713.14. This is 
shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Further along in the quote, page 19, has a section titled Repayment Options. This has three 
tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. The table for 180 months is the 
length of the loan that Mrs M entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 
180 monthly payments of £81.58 due and compares the overall expected grand total from 
the system, averaged over a monthly basis, against the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs M could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare her FIT income to her monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
her monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was told that her monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system and expected benefits
Mrs M has said that the cost of the system was documented as £7,500.00. She has said that 
this was done to mislead her as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan. So hid the true cost of the system, £14,684.40.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mrs M makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£7,500.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £7,500.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £14,684.40.
I think the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above. Taking the documents together, Im satisfied that the two 
documents, the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the 
system was £7,500.00, it would cost Mrs M more than this as she had decided to pay for it 
with a fixed sum loan.
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs M that the system would not cost her a penny, and that 
she could expect to receive a Tax-Free Year 1 benefit of £713.14.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mrs M was expected to have made a 
loss of £22.15 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of £19.38 a 
month. It wouldnt be until the ninth year that the expected benefits would exceed her 
monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have been until around year 
fifteen that she would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual losses and the system 
would be paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
and Im unable to conclude that Mrs M was told that the system would not cost her a penny. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between her expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
In addition to this, page eight of the quote has a graph illustrating the difference between the 
expected income and loan repayments:
Again, Im unable to conclude that the system would not cost her a penny as the graph, in
my view, clearly illustrates the expected shortfall between the expected income compared to
the monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mrs M was told that shed receive a year one benefit of £713.14 as this was
the expected combined income from FIT payments and electricity savings on her energy
bills. Having said that, taking into account the available evidence, Im not persuaded that
Mrs M was led to believe that shed receive this sum as cash in hand. Im satisfied that the 
quote makes it clear that shed have to make loan repayments and overall there would be a 
deficit.
Page 19 of the quote has a table headed Estimated performance over 20 years:
This shows that by year 15 the overall benefits that Mrs M could expect to receive would 
have exceeded the total amount payable under her loan agreement. This table also sets out 
the panel degradation rate, so Im satisfied that P made her aware that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P more likely than not told Mrs M that the system 
would pay for itself by year 15, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, 
and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs M. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
around 2,900 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT 
payments and savings in her energy bills, that Mrs M could expect to receive.
Between 19 December 2014 and 14 December 2015, the system generated a total of 2,764 
kWh. I have calculated that the system generates, on average, 7.656 kWh per day or 2,794 
kWh a year. This is within a reasonable tolerance of the estimated generation provided in the 
quote, so Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the quote. There was 
apparently a bit of a problem in October 2015, when Mrs M had her electricity meter 
changed. The engineer had turned the system off to do this and hadnt restarted it. This 
wasnt discovered until December 2015 and so that more likely than not accounts for any 
shortfall in the electricity generated that year.
So, based on this, I would expect Mrs M to be on the way to recouping any initial losses from 
the system and for it to be paying for itself. Mrs M has said that this isnt the case so Ive 
gone on to consider whether P has overstated the potential income and savings Mrs M could 
expect to receive by, for example using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote P provided to Mrs M was personalised to her specific circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits she could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy generated by the system that Mrs 
M would use rather than buying it from her energy provider, therefore leading to savings on 
her energy bills and the expected increase in utility prices alongside the expected annual 
increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were based on the 
Office for National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2013.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote. 
The quote sets out that Mrs M was expected to use, or self-consume, 50% of the kWh 
generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual saving of 
£223.55. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the ONS data Ive 
mentioned above. The electricity bills that the CMC has provided dont paint an entirely clear 
picture of what Mrs Ms electricity consumption was before and after the panels were 
installed. Mrs M says that shes still paying about the same for her energy, although she 
appears to have changed suppliers over the years and her energy use seems to have gone 
both up and down for the period that we have bills for.  
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy that Mrs M was expected to self-consume were 
both reasonable assumptions for P to have made. And I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence that Mrs M isnt obtaining the benefit predicted from the panels.
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Mrs M could expect to receive 
from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line with the 
available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases was 8.5% 
and for RPI was 2.92%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 2015 to 
2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased in line with the estimates 
provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests that energy prices have increased by 3.7% 
and RPI by 2.56%. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions used by P and in 
my view explain why she isnt receiving the financial returns from the system that she may 
have expected.
The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS from 2005 to 2013. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate the expected financial returns from the system. Im of the 
view that this goes some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding by the 
end of the loan term, although energy prices are currently on the rise, so that may yet 
change. Although I appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by the financial returns from her 
system, Im satisfied that this isnt due to P using unreasonable assumptions when she 
entered into the contract for the system.
S140A of the Act
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A of the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship here under the Act.
Further considerations
The CMC also provided us with evidence that it thinks shows that the benefits of the system 
were misrepresented to Mrs M. This included some marketing literature allegedly used by P along with the findings of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance 
panel hearing from December 2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this was provided to Mrs M, or that it relates to the time her panels were sold. Whilst it does 
refer to the system paying for itself and being self-funding, Im not persuaded I can place as 
much weight on this, especially when considered along with Mrs Ms personalised quote. 
And, as I have explained above, at the time Mrs M entered into the contract with P, Im 
satisfied that her system would have been self-funding and pay for itself by the end of the 
loan term.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013, almost a year before 
Mrs M entered into her contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided information from 
Trading Standards, setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to improve 
Ps sales process. This work included Trading Standards helping P to enhance their 
business paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. 
This has ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC findings found concerns with Ps sales practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved prior to Mrs M entering into her contract. And I have to take account of the 
particular circumstances of this case, along with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
Ive thought about Mrs Ms concerns that she wasnt told about any cooling off period or 
cancellation rights. I think that these were clearly set out in the credit documentation with 
which she was provided. And she indicated in her customer satisfaction questionnaire that 
shed been told about them too. So, I havent found that Mrs M wasnt told about her rights to 
withdraw from the contract.
Mrs M also raised some concerns about Ps sales process. She said that she was 
pressurised into entering the contract and the fixed sum loan agreement and said a proper 
affordability check wasnt conducted. She has been struggling to make her contractual 
monthly loan repayments.
Based on the available evidence thats been provided, I havent found that the sales process 
was unreasonably pressured. Taking account of the overall cost of the system alongside the 
length of the loan term, I dont think the length of the meeting with P at Mrs Ms home was 
unreasonable. Mrs M also filled in a customer satisfaction form after the sale in which she 
confirmed that there had been no sales pressure.
Im also of the view that the checks on whether the loan was affordable to Mrs M were 
proportionate. Mrs M provided Shawbrook with details of her earnings and Ive seen a credit 
check that it carried out. This didnt highlight any particular credit risk. And in her 
conversation with our investigator, Mrs M said that she was financially comfortable at the 
time. I was sorry to hear that Mrs M has since found herself if less favourable financial 
circumstances. But on the evidence available, I cant say that this was a situation where 
alarm bells should have rung for Shawbrook that this lending might not be affordable.
Mrs M clearly has a different recent recollection about what she was told by Ps salesman at 
the time she bought the panels. And this in turn differs from the testimony given by the CMC 
when the complaint was first made. I also cant ignore that the quotation makes it clear that 
the panels wouldnt be self-funding. So, on balance, Ive concluded that, on the evidence 
available here, there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs M to enter into the contract for the system, and Ive found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. And I wont be requiring that 
Shawbrook Bank Limited does anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman