DRN-1212699
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1995 alongside a credit card. Mr B says that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him 
the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out. I note that this was a postal application with no apparent involvement 
from a representative. Ive seen a copy of the application form and theres nothing on 
this form to indicate Mr B would have had to take PPI to get the credit card. Instead it 
gave Mr B a choice. Mr B ticked specifically to take PPI and signed the form.
 
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. 
 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
 
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
 When the policy was sold, BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because BoS 
didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what hes said about his existing 
repayment means at the time of the sale.  But these points dont change my decision. Mr B 
has told us that he would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay from his employer if he was off work sick.  However, the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this. The PPI would also have paid out if Mr B lost his job. Mr B has also 
mentioned other policies that he says he had to cover him. However, no further information 
or evidence has been provided about these. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman