DRN-3791939
The complaint
Mr E complains about Revolut Ltds actions when carrying out a review on his account.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr Es account was flagged for a review. It was suspended on the same 
day and Mr E was notified and asked to provide some information. Mr E submitted some 
information to Revolut, however they asked for further information on 17 March 2021. 
Unhappy with the time it was taking, Mr E raised a formal complaint to Revolut on 
8 April 2021. On the same day  8 April 2021  Revolut escalated the review to another 
department and on 13 April 2021 they made the decision to remove the restriction from 
Mr Es account.
Revolut upheld the complaint. To recognise the delays caused to Mr E they upgraded his 
account to a metal membership and credited the account with 65CHF (around £50).
Mr E wasnt happy. He said he lost out on trading and had intended to invest around £6,000 
and 7,000CHF, and he feels he lost out on a gain of around 83.75%. Mr E also complained 
that Revolut advertised a number of crypto currencies which didnt appear available to use. 
To put things right, Mr E wanted reasonable compensation, subscription fees reimbursed 
and written confirmation that Revolut wouldnt freeze his account again within certain trading 
limits.
While the complaint was awaiting allocation with our service, Revolut offered Mr E a further 
£50 compensation in an attempt to settle the complaint. Mr E rejected this offer.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think Revolut had to do anything more to put 
things right. In summary, she said Revolut were entitled to block the account and recognised 
the delay through the compensation and years free membership upgrade. She didnt think it 
was appropriate for Revolut to pay Mr E for the potential losses of trading and she felt the 
compensation paid covered the loss of the subscription fee.
Mr E remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to review things, so the complaint was 
passed to me.
In October 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
The account block
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts 
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened,
Im satisfied Revolut was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they
reviewed Mr Es account in February 2021. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong 
on this point.
However, Ive recognised the time the review took  from 19 February 2021 to 13 April 2021. 
While we wouldnt usually give a certain timeframe that a review should be completed in, Id 
expect the review to take place in a timely manner without any undue delays. I havent seen 
enough evidence to satisfy me that Revolut were proactive in their review, and Revolut has 
also admitted there were delays by offering Mr E compensation. Overall, I think Revolut 
could have carried out and finalised the review sooner than they did. Because of that, I think 
compensation should be paid to recognise this delay, and I consider interest should be paid 
on the funds which were held in the account to recognise the loss of use of these funds.
I recognise Mr E wants Revolut to confirm they wont restrict his account again within certain 
trading limits, but I cant reasonably ask them to do that. Ive explained above that Revolut 
are strictly regulated so if they consider a review is required at any time, they are under a 
duty to carry out the appropriate actions. I do however hope that Revolut will carry out any 
further warranted reviews in a timely manner to reduce any further impact to Mr E.
Loss of trading
Mr E has explained he wanted to invest and couldnt because of the restriction on his 
account. Ive thought about this point carefully, and Mr E has told our service that he 
considers he would have been around 83.75% up, if he was able to invest like he wanted. 
While I can appreciate Mr Es position, its not appropriate for me to ask Revolut to pay Mr E 
for his potential losses. These payments would have been investments  which pose a risk. 
And therefore, there isnt any guarantee that Mr E would have made the money he is 
claiming.
I also cant fairly uphold this complaint on the point that certain crypto trades werent 
available  ultimately, its not in my remit to say how Revolut should operate or what 
products they should offer.
Putting things right
Overall, I consider Revolut need to do more to put things right for Mr E. Ive considered the 
compensation already made but dont think this fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience. 
Firstly, I consider an interest payment of 8% simple should be calculated and paid on the 
amount held in Mr Es account from 19 February 2021  13 April 2021. This recognises the 
loss of use of the funds and while doesnt reflect the trading Mr E says he would have 
carried out, it is the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts and therefore, I 
consider it to be the fairest in the circumstances.
Im aware Revolut paid Mr E 65CHF  and at the time they paid it in April 2021, this would 
have converted to around £50. They also upgraded Mr Es account to a metal membership 
which they say is the value of £155.88. Mr E didnt ask for the metal membership, and 
therefore while I appreciate Revoluts efforts, I dont think this is a reasonable way to 
compensate Mr E. I do, however, consider the value of the membership is appropriate so I 
consider Revolut should remove the upgrade from Mr Es account and pay him the 
equivalent value (£155.88). I dont consider they should make any deduction from this 
amount to recognise the time Mr E has had access to the upgraded service.
I also consider the subscription fees for the months Mr E didnt have full use of his account 
should be reimbursed  while I recognise Revolut were entitled to carry out the review, I 
think the delays meant Mr E couldnt access the account for longer than necessary and 
therefore it isnt fair that he continued to pay for the service.So, I thought Revolut should likely:
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they withheld from Mr E from the 
date they received the first information from Mr E (19 February 2021) up to the date 
they removed the restriction (13 April 2021).
Remove the upgrade from Mr Es account (if it hasnt already expired) and pay him 
the equivalent value of £155.88.
Refund three months of the premium plan fee to recognise the loss of use of the 
account for February 2021, March 2021, and April 2021.
Revolut didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr E did. In summary, along with previous 
submissions he had sent to our service, he said:
He doesnt believe Revolut made a new offer of £50 when the complaint was already 
with our service.
He didnt think my provisional decision detailed the compensation which I thought he 
was entitled to. Mr E confirmed hed spent over 30 hours on this issue.
He considers, from the evidence he received, he would have been guaranteed the 
trades and therefore I should consider his losses.
He confirmed he was able to move the money out of his Revolut account before the 
block so the 8% interest on the balance wouldnt be beneficial to him.
He feels the refund of the subscription fee doesnt quantify the use of benefits which 
he should have received.
He has worked out an appropriate level of compensation at £50 per day multiped by 
84 days affected and adding 8% interest to this amount means £4,292.05 
compensation would be the minimum he accepts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I appreciate Mr E has submitted a lot of arguments and evidence  some of which 
was received beforehand. Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint 
in far less detail than Mr E, and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is 
intended by me in taking this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to 
be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Id like to reassure Mr E that Revolut did make a new offer of £50 while his complaint was 
awaiting allocation with our service. The offer came in as a batch of offers involving other 
consumers which is likely why he didnt receive any correspondence relating to it directly  
however, I can confirm the offer of £50 in an attempt to settle the complaint was a genuine, 
new offer from Revolut. As Mr E didnt accept it, our service continued to progress his 
complaint in the usual way.I explained in my provisional decision that I hadnt seen enough evidence to satisfy me that 
Revolut hadnt caused any unnecessary delays while carrying out the review on Mr Es 
account. Because of that, I thought they should pay Mr E compensation. I considered the 
appropriate level of compensation when reviewing things at the provisional stage and 
thought the cost equivalent of the upgraded membership and a refund of the premium fees 
fairly reflected the level of inconvenience. Having reviewed all the evidence and arguments 
again, I dont consider further compensation is warranted. Ive explained in more detail 
below.
Ive reconsidered the evidence Mr E has provided in relation to his crypto trades, but Im 
afraid I cant reasonably ask Revolut to pay this amount of loss. I appreciate Mr E showed 
his intent to trade, and it may be the case that the particular trades he wanted to participate 
in, did make money. But I cannot award loss which only may have happened. I know this will 
be difficult for Mr E to accept, but its not reasonable for me to award financial loss on 
something which didnt actually take place. I also note Mr E had access to the money so I 
consider he could have found an alternative way to trade to mitigate his losses. 
I appreciate Mr Es honesty in that he was able to withdraw the money before the block  
and therefore the 8% interest I suggested wont be beneficial to him. I dont find any other 
alternative is appropriate in the circumstances as the interest payment would be to cover the 
loss of use of the funds in the account, however if Mr E had access to them, there is no loss 
to cover.
Mr E has rightly pointed out that refunding him for the subscription fee doesnt recognise the 
use of benefits he missed out on. However, Ive found Revolut were entitled to block the 
account, so the benefits wouldnt have been available to him regardless. Im asking Revolut 
to refund the subscription fee to recognise the delays in the review  and therefore it feeds 
into the overall compensation. 
Ive thought carefully about the method Mr E feels his compensation should be calculated. 
And I appreciate the time and effort Mr E has spent on this issue, and the impact its had on 
him. However, it's not in my remit to punish businesses. Therefore, I have to make a 
decision based on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances taking into account all 
the information provided by both parties. 
Putting things right
I consider the appropriate redress to put things right is for Revolut to pay the cash equivalent 
of the upgraded membership they added to his account, and a refund of the three months 
premium service he paid for. I dont consider any further financial loss should be paid as it is 
apparent Mr E had access to the money in his account during the block, and I dont find it 
reasonable to award for potential losses through not being able to trade.
I do recognise that Mr E will be disappointed by my decision, but I wont be asking Revolut to 
pay anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Revolut Ltd should:
Remove the upgrade from Mr Es account (if it hasnt already expired) and pay him 
the equivalent value of £155.88.
Refund three months of the premium plan fee to recognise the loss of use of the 
account for February 2021, March 2021, and April 2021.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman