DRN-3751118
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled and 
settled a claim they made under their home insurance policy for storm damage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W hold a household insurance policy with Admiral. 
On 9 March 2022, they contacted Admiral to make a claim under their policy for storm 
damage. They said theyd noticed damage to their roof and had found some roof slates on 
their driveway. They also said the ceiling paper had come away from their bedroom ceiling 
as it was damp. They believed this had all been caused by a storm on around 18 February 
2022.
Admiral registered Mr and Mrs Ws claim and informed them that the waiting list for their 
contractor was around 12 weeks and that they could appoint their own contractor. Mr and 
Mrs W said, given the lengthy wait time, theyd find someone local to undertake the repairs. 
Admiral asked them to provide photographs showing the damage their property had 
sustained. It also requested quotes for repairs to the roof and ceiling.
Mr and Mrs W provided a quote of the repairs to their ceiling on around 25 March together 
with the requested photographs. Admiral acknowledged the information Mr and Mrs W had 
sent it and said it would await quotes for the reinstatement of the roof before it would 
proceed further with the claim. This was subsequently provided to Admiral by Mr and Mrs W.
On 2 May 2022 Mr and Mrs W said they heard a thud and noticed their bedroom ceiling had 
collapsed. They provided photographs of the aftermath to Admiral and chased the status of 
their claim. 
During a telephone call on 10 May, Mr and Mrs W say Admiral informed them that their 
quote had been accepted and it would cover the cost of repairs to their roof. They say they 
were told the policy excess would be deducted from their payment, which would reach them 
within around week.
Mr and Mrs W say they were subsequently informed that an error had been made during that 
call by the staff member they spoke with. Admiral said it had not said it had accepted the 
claim as it hadnt validated the information it had been provided but it agreed that it had 
erred in informing Mr and Mrs W that payment would be sent to them.
Admiral paid Mr and Mrs W £100 as an apology for what had happened. It also appointed a 
surveyor, which Ill refer to as B in this decision to assess the cause of damage and assist 
it in dealing with the claim. 
Mr and Mrs W said they had to chase B for an appointment and the site visit took place on 
21 June 2022. Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with Bs conduct during its attendance at this 
property and disputed the content of the report it provided Admiral.
Within its report, B explained that it didnt think the damage Mr and Mrs W had reported had 
been caused by a storm as their policy required. And it pointed Admiral to online images of 
Mr and Mrs Ws roof which it said showed that the roof had suffered problems with its tiling 
for over a decade. B therefore thought the damage had happened gradually. So, Admiral 
repudiated Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
Mr and Mrs W complained about how Admiral had dealt with their claim. They felt it was 
unfair of B to rely on online images of their home without their knowledge and said there was 
no continuity during their claim as they would speak to a different member of staff each time 
they contacted Admiral. They also thought Admiral had acted unreasonably in declining to 
cover the damage to their property after informing them it would.
When Admiral responded to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint it didnt think B had done anything 
wrong in using historic images that were available online to assess the claim and it said it 
wasnt possible for a policyholder to speak to a designated staff member each time they 
contacted  the business. 
Admiral said it accepted it had erred in telling Mr and Mrs W it would process their payment. 
But it disputed it had had informed them that their claim had been approved  instead it said 
they were told their quotes and photographs would need to be validated before it could 
confirm their claim would be covered.
Admiral said it didnt think it has made an error in repudiating the claim as it was satisfied 
that the damage Mr and Mrs W had reported had been caused gradually, which was 
excluded by their policy.
Being dissatisfied with how Lloyds had responded to their complaint Mr and Mrs W referred 
it to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened. 
They initially recommended upholding this complaint. However, following the receipt of 
further information from Lloyds, they reversed the initial uphold view. They thought Lloyds 
had acted fairly in declining his claim but recommended it pay Mr P an additional £100 in 
compensation to settle the complaint. Both Mr P and Lloyds disagreed with our investigators 
view of this complaint. So, Ive been asked to reach a decision as to the fairest way to 
resolve maters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr and Mrs W and Admiral that Ive read everything thats been 
sent. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think Admiral made a mistake in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim, or treated them unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right.  
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr and Mrs Ws property. However, theres 
disagreement between them, Admiral and its appointed agent about the cause of the 
damage and the correct outcome of this claim. Mr and Mrs W would like Admiral to cover the damage to his property because they feel it 
was caused by adverse weather. Their policy with Admiral provides cover for damage 
caused by a range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include 
storm, for example. But, for a claim to be successful, the onus rests on Mr and Mrs W to 
show that the damage theyre claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in their 
policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind. And I should also clarify that the answer to all three questions needs to be 
yes for this service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr and Mrs Ws policy defines the word 
storm as:
winds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55 mph), heavy rainfall of at least 25 mm per hour, 
snow to a depth of at least 30 cm in 24 hours, or hail that causes damage to hard surfaces 
or breaks glass.
So, Ive thought about this definition when deciding whether there were storm conditions on 
or around the date that Mr and Mrs W say their property suffered damage.
Theyve pointed to a storm that occurred on around 18 February 2022. They think this was 
when damage was caused to their property. Weather reports relevant to Mr and Mrs Ws 
locality show that the wind speeds of 55 mph were recorded on 18 February. As this meets 
the policy definition of a storm, Im persuaded that storm conditions existed at around the 
date of the damage. It follows that I can answer question one affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. Here, some tiles on the roof became detached and fell to 
the ground and there was water ingress within the interior of Mr and Mrs Ws property. Im 
satisfied that the damage reported is something that could be expected following a storm. I 
can therefore answer this question affirmatively.
For me to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, Id have to be satisfied on balance that a storm 
was the predominant cause of the damage they reported to Admiral. And, taking everything 
into account, Im not persuaded the damage is consistent with a one-off storm event. Ill 
explain why.
Here, Admiral appointed B to provide an opinion on the cause of damage. The terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy with Admiral allow it to appoint loss adjusters or other 
experts, inspect damage and arrange for repairs or replacements. Im satisfied B has 
significant experience of assessing building claims. So, it isnt unreasonable for Admiral to 
rely on Bs expertise in assessing a storm claim.  
The evidence Ive seen persuades me that B visited Mr and Mrs Ws property and inspected 
their roof and the repairs that had been undertaken to their bedroom by their appointed 
contractor. Having done so it observed that the timbers below the roof slates and sarking felt 
had rotted away, which isnt consistent with a one-off event. In the bedroom, B noted damage to the lathe and plaster which is falling away. Black mould 
is present under the lining paper and the lathes are rotten. This is not consistent with a one-
off water ingress incident and has been ongoing for some time.
I can see that when it assessed Mr and Mrs Ws claim, B also considered historic images of 
their roof that were available online. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that B 
consulted historic images of their roof  they say this breached their privacy. But the images 
B used are publicly available online. B is entitled to consider all the information that is 
available to reach an opinion of the cause of damage. And, from what I can see, it appears 
that B looked at these online images due to concerns that the damage was pre-existing, 
which I think is a reasonable step in assessing a claim.
Having seen the online images B used, I can see that the images of Mr and Mrs Ws roof 
from 2012 depict a hole in the main roof and the same hole in the same area can be seen on 
images from 2019 and 2021. Mr and Mrs W havent told our service they repaired their roof 
prior to the damage they reported in early 2022. So, I think its reasonable to infer that the 
hole has been present since around 2012.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W incepted their policy with Admiral in 2016, which means the 
hole was, likely, present prior to them taking out their policy. It wasnt unfair for Admiral to 
inform Mr and Mrs W that pre-existing damage is excluded under their policy.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs W disagree with the Bs opinion on the cause of damage. But I 
havent seen any evidence that discredits its opinion. And, impartially, I think the 
photographs Mr and Mrs W provided support the Bs opinion that the cause of damage to the 
roof was a breakdown in materials, which happened because of age-related wear and tear.
Im satisfied that Admiral has shown our service cogent evidence, which demonstrates that 
the damage, most likely, occurred due to the pre-existing condition of Mr and Mrs Ws 
property. I dont think the external and internal damage would have when it did had there not 
been previous roof damage present. So, I dont believe the storm was the dominant cause of 
damage. I think its most likely the adverse weather that Mr and Mrs W experienced in mid-
February 2022 highlighted the pre-existing condition of their roof and caused it to worsen.  
Admirals policy booklet makes it clear that loss or damage caused by wear and tear, a lack 
of maintenance or damage thats happened gradually over a period of time is specifically 
excluded under Mr and Mrs Ws insurance policy. This is in common with most home 
insurance policies because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And something 
wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
Mr and Mrs W believe the internal damage to their property should be covered. But this isnt 
something that can be covered under any part of their policy including the accidental  
damage section. I say this because accidental damage is defined in Mr and Mrs Ws policy 
as sudden, unexpected and visible loss or damage which has not been caused 
deliberately. As already explained, this damage occurred gradually. So, it cant be said to be 
sudden and unexpected.
As Admiral has shown that the damage that occurred isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws insurance policy, I dont think its decision about their claim was 
unfair or unreasonable. And this means I cant fairly ask it to pay this claim.
Mr and Mrs W have also complained about the information they were given about the status 
of their claim. They said they were led to believe that their claim had been approved. Ive therefore carefully considered what they were told by Admiral to determine whether it gave 
them a false expectation that their claim would be met.
It appears that, on 10 May, Admiral informed Mr and Mrs W that their claim was accepted 
and payment would be made to cover the cost of repairs to their roof. But this was prior to it 
appointing B to provide its opinion on the cause of damage, which led to the repudiation of 
the claim.
Having listened carefully to the call recording from 10 May, I am satisfied that Admiral told 
Mr and Mrs W it would pay them their external reinstatement quote less the excess. Mr and 
Mrs W then queried when Admiral was intending to pay their internal repair quote for the 
ceiling reinstatement. It responded by informing them it would pay the full amount for this 
too. Mr and Mrs W provided their bank details to Admiral to facilitate an electronic transfer of 
the settlement funds.
While Im satisfied that Admiral didnt act unfairly in declining to settle this claim, Im 
persuaded that the call on 10 May would have created a legitimate expectation in Mr and 
Mrs Ws mind that their claim had been approved and the costs of repair would be met by it. 
I think this was unfair because that wasnt what ultimately happened.
Admiral has acknowledged its error to Mr and Mrs W and accepted that it should have 
informed them their claim would need to be validated before a decision could be made about 
whether it would be able to settle their claim. Its already paid them £100 in compensation as 
an apology for what happened. 
Having taken into account the impact of Admirals error on Mr and Mrs Ws, Im persuaded 
the compensation already paid adequately recognises the distress and inconvenience they 
would have experienced here. This award is in line with awards made by this service in 
comparable circumstances and I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a 
higher award is warranted. So, I wont be asking Admiral to increase its award.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs W feel very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint 
and that theyll be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to 
resolve their dispute with Admiral informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Mr and 
Mrs W any further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman