DRN-3844393
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with Target Servicing Limited (Target) and feels he has been treated 
unfairly because he is unable to remortgage or sell his property due to risks presented by 
potentially combustible cladding on the property walls. Mr I said:
He would like Target to freeze the equity loan repayments until the cladding issues 
are resolved
He would like Target to release him from the clause of the help to buy agreement 
which prevents him from purchasing another property
What happened
Mr I bought a flat in October 2016 with the assistance of the help to buy scheme. 
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower takes a shared equity loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required. Mr Is property is in England, and he took the loan out with Homes England, which 
was formerly known as Homes and Communities Agency. They are an executive agency 
and non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Levelling Up, Housing 
and Communities. Homes England lends a percentage of the property purchase price to the 
borrower to enable them to buy a home.
Help to buy shared equity loans are interest free for the first five years. From year six 
onwards, interest is payable. Help to buy shared equity loans are secured by way of a 
second charge over the property, ranking behind the main mortgage. This means that the 
loan must be repaid at the end of its term which is generally 25 years. But if the property is 
sold before then, it must be repaid on the sale of the property. A borrower can also elect to 
repay the loan at any time, even if the property is not being sold. 
Homes England has appointed Target to administer help to buy loans on their behalf. Target 
is a regulated firm within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service and is 
therefore the respondent to this complaint. 
Mr I has explained that he was unable to re-mortgage elsewhere to repay his help to buy 
loan because of the cladding issues on the property. He says that but for this he would have 
paid it off and as the five year interest free period had ended he was starting to be charged 
interest. Mr I doesnt think that is fair as its not his fault the there are cladding issues. So he 
believes that the interest should be frozen until the issues are resolved. 
Mr I has also said that he would also like Target to release him from the clause in the 
agreement which states he cant purchase another property until the loan is paid off. 
Target said they wouldnt freeze the interest payments or release Mr I from the clause in the 
agreement because these were the terms that Mr I signed up to when the help to buy loan 
was taken out in 2016. They did however agree there had been some communication issues 
and offered Mr I £50 in recognition of this. 
Mr I remained unhappy with this so he brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think it was 
unfair of Target to insist on the term within the contract and thought the £50 they offered with 
regards to the communication with Target was fair. 
Mr I disagreed with this. He said when he took the loan out he was provided with detailed 
examples of how he could staircase and refinance the loan and he hasnt been able to do 
this. He said if the entire premise under which the loan was taken out is temporarily 
unavailable, because he cant do what he needs to do, it brings into question the validity of 
applying what he considers to be punitive terms and conditions. 
Mr I said that the cladding issues are not new defects in his building and were there when 
the loans were taken out. He said its the change in building regulations since the loans were 
taken out that has now made what were previously mortgageable properties  now 
unmortgageable. 
Mr I says there is a violation of the stated aims of the scheme and as he cant currently 
redeem his loan, its not fair he should be held to the other terms of the agreement.
In order to put things right, Mr I would like Target to allow him to purchase another property 
and says that he shouldnt be penalised for the time taken to resolve the cladding issues and 
would like repayments put on hold. 
As Mr I disagreed with what the investigator said, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the Grenfell Tower tragedy in 2017, there was an increased awareness of the risks 
caused by certain types of building construction, including potentially combustible composite 
cladding, particularly on blocks of flats. 
Uncertainties around whether individual buildings either have cladding, or whether  if they 
do  the cladding is a fire safety risk, or whether there are other non-cladding fire risks 
present, have had a significant impact on both sales and mortgage lending markets in the 
years since the Grenfell fire. Until the issue is resolved for his building, Mr I is unable to sell 
his property, or make changes to his main mortgage (such a further borrowing to pay this 
loan off). 
I can appreciate that Mr I is extremely frustrated with the situation he finds himself in and 
feels it is extremely unfair that he is now being charged interest and unable to staircase or 
refinance the loan. But I must also bear in mind that this situation isnt of Targets making 
either. Neither party could have known this would happen when Mr I took his mortgage out.
Mr I signed an agreement on 26 October 2016 which makes it clear that interest will be 
charged on the loan five years from inception. And it says that while he has the loan, he 
cannot purchase another property. 
While I accept the situation that Mr I finds himself in is a difficult one, I dont think it means 
that Target should change the terms of the agreement and freeze the interest that is due on 
the loan. Mr I has had the benefit of borrowing the funds and is therefore bound by the terms 
under which it must be repaid. Its unfortunate that he cant now pay the loan off early, as he 
planned to do. But owning property always comes with risks which can change initial plans. 
Ive not seen any evidence that paying the interest would cause Mr I particular financial 
hardship. I therefore wont be asking Target to suspend the interest which is now payable on 
the loan.
Mr I has said he would like to be released from the clause in the agreement which prevents 
him from purchasing another property. Mr I has explained that he would like to invest in 
another residential property or buy another one which he may then sell on in the future. The agreement from 2016 says:
To occupy the Property as the Borrowers only or main residence and not to hold a legal or 
beneficial interest in any other residential property other than the property.
While its clear that Mr I would like to purchase another property and is unable to because of 
the clause in the agreement, I dont think it would be fair to ask Target to release Mr I from 
this clause. Mr I entered into this agreement in 2016 at the point of sale and as Ive already 
mentioned, the cladding issues could not have been known to either party at that time. But I 
dont think that means that Target should fairly release Mr I from this clause. The purpose of 
this clause is to ensure that borrowers dont take on significant additional debt while this loan 
is outstanding  and because the purpose of the help to buy scheme is to support home 
ownership not property investment. I think its relevant to note that Mr I isnt currently living in 
this property, and wouldnt be living in the one he wants to buy either  rather, hes explained 
that he prefers to invest in property rather than other forms of investment. Ive taken account 
of what hes said. But I think there are good reasons for this clause. And the clause isnt 
preventing Mr I from moving, or making him live in a property which is no longer suitable for 
his needs. I dont therefore think that its unfair that Target wouldnt agree to allow him to 
purchase another property before repaying this loan.
For completeness, I also think that the £50 that Target have offered Mr I for the 
communication issues are fair. Ive listened to the telephone calls where Mr I explains he is 
abroad and would like Target to contact him on a different telephone number. But Target 
tried to contact him on his UK telephone number. I think what Target have offered in this 
respect is fair and reasonable. 
I know that Mr I will be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied that Target have 
administered this loan as it was intended  so wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman