DRN-3567889
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) handling of a claim they made under their buildings insurance. Any references 
to NFU also include its agents.
What happened
In August 2020, the basement of Mr M and Mrs Ms property was flooded, which caused 
substantial damage. Mr M and Mrs M made a claim to NFU who appointed a loss adjuster to 
inspect the damage.
The loss adjuster considered the recommendations from the expert Mr M and Mrs M wanted 
to carry out the repairs. Mr M and Mrs Ms expert report identified the old waterproofing 
system that had been in place before the flood no longer complied with Building Regulations.
The loss adjuster noted a tanking system could be prudent, but NFU wasnt prepared to pay 
for the proposed tanking works. It considered doing so would be putting Mr M and Mrs M in a 
better position than they were in before the claim. NFUs loss adjuster said it wasnt required 
to put the tanking system in to comply with the British Standards identified by Mr M and Mrs 
Ms expert and preferred to use a waterproofing method similar to that previously in place. 
Concerned this approach would fail again, Mr M and Mrs M complained to NFU. They said to 
put things right they wanted the full value of the claim paid, and to be reimbursed for the cost 
of the tanking system installed. In February 2022, NFU responded to Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint. The final response letter said while British Standards were considered to be best 
practice, theyre recommendations, not legislation. And it was NFUs view that adding 
tanking to the property would be betterment. As there was no cover within the policy that 
provided for tanking, it would not settle the claim in the way Mr M and Mrs M asked.
Unhappy with NFUs response, Mr M and Mrs M referred their complaint to this service. It 
was considered by one of our investigators who said that in her view, NFU needed to carry 
out a lasting and effective repair, and to do so, it needed to tank the property. As NFU didnt 
agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all points made but given the informal nature of this service, my decision 
focuses on those points I considered most relevant. I trust neither side will consider this a 
discourtesy, but instead a reflection of our informal nature. 
At the heart of NFUs argument is the property tanking system recommended by Mr M and 
Mrs Ms expert. It says its not representative of the previous cementitious waterproofing 
system in place before the flood occurred. It therefore considers including tanking as part of 
the claim settlement would put Mr M and Mrs M in a better position than they were in before 
the flood occurred, something for which the policy doesnt provide. 
The first issue Ive considered is that the property did have a waterproofing system in place 
before the flood occurred. However, the key argument put forward by Mr M and Mrs M is 
replacing the existing waterproofing system with something on a like-for-like basis wont 
necessarily provide for a lasting and effective repair. NFU considered it should be able to 
replace the existing waterproofing by taking a similar approach to what was already there. 
And I note that after some time, the original waterproofing system eventually failed, leading 
to the claim. 
The report provided by Mr M and Mrs Ms expert (who went on to complete the repairs 
including tanking works) set out in detail why the repair they proposed would be lasting and 
effective. And I note NFUs loss adjuster stated in their report in January 2021 that installing 
a tanking system would be prudent. Mr M and Mrs M also sought advice from a Building 
Control Officer at their Local Authority, who recommended following the advice of their 
expert because the current waterproofing system had already been proven to fail. 
I acknowledge the tanking system recommended and installed by Mr M and Mrs Ms 
contractor isnt on a like-for-like basis with the system in place before the flood. However, 
NFU havent provided any evidence to show any repair recommended by their loss adjuster 
would have been sufficient to provide a lasting and effective repair. 
I say this having considered the similar feedback from Mr M and Mrs Ms expert and the 
Building Officer from the Local Authority. Both indicate a replacement waterproofing system 
along the same lines as the one that failed would be likely to fail again. These opinions were 
sought independently of each other and, given their similarity in responses, I consider them 
to be persuasive. 
Ive considered the British Standards referenced by Mr M and Mrs Ms contractor. Ive also 
considered NFUs counter argument the Standards were guidance and recommendations of 
best practice, not a legislation that needed to be adhered to. And having done so, its clear 
this isnt legislation, but does set out that it is a set of guidelines that can be followed when 
designing an effective waterproofing system. While NFU wasnt required to take account of 
these when deciding how to carry out a repair, I think the consideration of this Standard by 
Mr M and Mrs Ms expert is also persuasive in supporting their recommendation to tank the 
property.
In summary, Im satisfied in the circumstances of this case the evidence provided supports 
tanking the property, rather than carrying out a repair similar to the original waterproofing 
system, would provide for a lasting and effective repair. I appreciate Mr M and Mrs M have 
had these works carried out. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Mr M and Mrs M should supply copies of their invoices to NFU, and NFU 
should reimburse Mr M and Mrs M for any costs theyve incurred relating to the tanking that 
havent been settled as part of the claim, along with simple interest at 8%. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Upon receipt of evidence of payment, The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited should:
Reimburse Mr M and Mrs M the amount they paid for the tanking works
Simple interest at 8% from the date of payment until the date of settlement1. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
1If The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr M and Mrs M how much its taken off. If 
requested, NFU should also provide Mr M and Mrs M with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so he can 
reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman