DRN-1440542
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
June 2004. Miss K says Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-
sold her the PPI.
 Background
The PPI was taken out some time after Miss K applied for her credit card. The PPI 
provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also would have paid a benefit 
in the event of death.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
In December 2019, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I explained 
that I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Below is an extract of what I said:
"Miss K says the PPI was added to her credit card without her knowledge. Barclays, on the 
other hand, says the PPI was sold to Miss K during a telephone call and that Miss K would 
have been given a choice about the PPI. Using what I know generally about Barclays sales 
practices at the time of sale, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that PPI was sold to 
Miss K during a phone call.
Unfortunately, Barclays hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call in which the sale 
took place  which isnt surprising given the sale took place over 15 years ago. So I dont 
know what was said in the discussion between Miss K and the Barclays representative. But 
Barclays has referred me to a PPI sales script which it says its telephone staff would have 
used in 2004 when Miss K was sold the PPI. Looking at the sales script, its clear that the 
Barclays representative would have asked Miss K whether she wanted to take out the PPI 
and gained her consent before adding the PPI to her credit card.
Businesses arent required to keep information indefinitely and so it would be unfair to say 
that Barclays wouldnt have given Miss K a choice or gained her consent, just because it no 
longer has a copy of the call recording in which the sale took place. I cant assume that the 
Barclays representative didnt follow the sales script when there isnt any persuasive 
evidence to support this. So it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint on this basis. 
Taking everything into account, including what I know of Barclays sales practices at the time 
the PPI was sold, I think its more likely than not that Miss K would have understood that the 
PPI was optional. I also think its more likely than not that Miss K would have agreed to the 
PPI, although I can understand why she cant remember this now.
 
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss K, and the policy seems to have been right 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was eligible for cover 
and I cant see that she would have been affected by any of things the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical conditions.Miss K has told us she didnt need PPI as she would have received generous sick pay from 
her employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she had some savings, 
income protection cover through her employer, and could have relied on her partner to help 
her with her credit card repayments.
Ive thought about what Miss K has told us about her sick pay and savings. She says she 
would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. She also says she held between £3,500 and £4,000 
in savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss K would have 
received from her employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than Miss K would 
have received full pay  up to 12 months. The PPI would have also enabled Miss K to use 
her savings for any other financial commitments she may have had at what could be a 
difficult time. So I dont think the sick pay and savings Miss K says she had, would have 
meant that Barclays was wrong to recommend the PPI to her.
Ive also thought about what Miss K has said about the fact that she had income protection 
cover through her employer and could have relied on her partner at the time to help her with 
her credit card repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt right for her.
Looking at the information Miss Ks provided about her income protection cover, the policy 
had a lengthy deferment period and would only have paid out the equivalent of half of 
Miss Ks salary after Miss Ks sick pay had been exhausted. And While Miss Ks partner 
would want to help, their financial situation could change and so this help couldnt always be 
relied on.
I also havent seen anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Miss K 
when she took out the policy  or that she had a particular need to keep costs down. So, 
overall, I think Barclays recommendation was suitable. And I think Miss K could have found 
the cover useful if she ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Miss K, Barclays also had to give her 
clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Barclays didnt give her all 
the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it should have 
been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Miss K buying it.
I've taken into account everything Miss K has said, including her response to our 
adjudicator's view letter. But these points don't change my mind. So overall, I think Miss K 
could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and I dont think that any 
better information would have put her off from taking out the policy."
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision.
Neither Miss K nor Barclays responded with anything further for me to consider.
 
 
 
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold  
Miss K's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman