DRN-4346597
The complaint
O, a limited company, complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund their losses from an 
email intercept scam. Theyd like a full reimbursement of the losses and interest.
What happened
O is represented by its director, but for this decision Ill refer solely to O. O held a business 
account with Starling Bank.
In late 2020 O set up a new payee on its Starling account. They then made a series of 
payments to the new payee. They contacted Startling through their online chat to ask if the 
payment limits could be increased, saying they needed to make repayments to a loan. 
Starling agreed to increase the limits for specific transactions. In total seven payments were 
sent, totalling just over £200,000.
The day after the last payment O contacted Starling again to query whether two payments 
had been returned, and the bank confirmed they hadnt. Later O contacted Starling again to 
say theyd fallen victim to an email intercept scam. They explained that theyd been in 
contact with their lenders solicitor to ask for a redemption statement, and then it appeared a 
scammer had intercepted it. O said an initial payment was attempted with a different bank 
but had been rejected because security details had recently been changed, so theyd 
decided to make the payments using the Starling account. 
While making payment the receiving bank couldnt match the name on the account to the 
payee name O had put on the transaction. O questioned this with the scammers but was 
persuaded because it was a client account this may happen. 
Starling contacted the beneficiary bank, and a little over £18,000 was recovered. But the 
remainder had already been moved on. 
O complained, saying Starling shouldnt have allowed the payments to go through without 
investigating. O said Starling was unresponsive to the scam, and unhelpful when it was 
trying to contact them about this. O asked to be reimbursed for the lost funds under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. 
Starling looked into what happened but decided against refunding O under the CRM code. 
They said they had displayed effective warnings to O when the increased payment limits 
were requested, and when the payments were made  including warnings about email 
intercept scams. They felt O hadnt done enough to confirm the correct payment details had 
been supplied. But they accepted some areas of their customer service had fallen short  
such as delays to responding and asking for the same information twice. They paid O £100 
compensation.
Unhappy with this the complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into what happened and was satisfied the claim met the standards under the CRM. They 
didnt feel the warnings given by Starling were effective, as they didnt relate to the scam O 
fell victim to. They were satisfied O had a reasonable basis of belief for making the 
payments. And they were satisfied that Starling ought to have noticed the later transactions 
were significantly unusual and asked further questions. Overall, they felt it fair that Starling 
should refund O, and add 8% simple interest to the transactions. They agreed that the £100 
compensation already paid was fair.
O accepted this outcome, but Starling disagreed. They felt that as the payment instructions 
to O had recently changed then their warnings about checking unexpected or amended 
instructions should have sufficed. They also felt their warnings were specific enough to say 
fraudsters could intercept email chains. They also submitted further evidence for review. But 
this didnt change the investigators mind.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. I reached a 
different conclusion to the investigator, and issued my provisional decision which said:
Where the evidence is unclear, contradictory, or sometimes unavailable, I have to based my 
decision on what I consider to be the most likely explanation of what happened. Ive 
reviewed all the considerable evidence supplied by both O and Starling. Ive decided to 
focus on what I consider to be the key issues involved  which is something our rules allow 
me to do, and also reflects our services role as an informal alternative to the court system.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Starling has provided is information that we considered 
should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of detail with O, 
but Id like to reassure it that I have considered everything.
Having done so, Im not minded to uphold this complaint. Based on the information available 
to me about how Os account was funded, Im not satisfied that the money in Os Starling 
account is money that O is entitled to. For that reason, any finding I would make on whether 
the transactions were covered by the CRM code would effectively be moot, since I dont 
consider them to represent a loss to O. I wouldnt expect a bank to refund funds that their 
customer wasnt entitled to. On that basis I dont think its unreasonable for Starling to 
decline to refund the remaining balance of the transactions.
Starling have accepted their customer service could have been better. I agree it would have 
been disruptive to have to submit the same information repeatedly. But overall, Im satisfied 
that the £100 already paid is reasonable for any inconvenience caused to O, so Im not 
asking them to increase it.
Starling didnt respond to the provisional decision. O responded with further information 
about funds paid into the account. They said the funds had come from a loan provided by a 
company owned by the wife of the director of O, as well as regular income from another 
company. They insisted the funds from these companies had been acquired legitimately. 
They said the disastrous customer service from Starling had left them in a vulnerable 
position both mentally and financially. 
This additional information was provided to Starling, but they had no new comments to 
make. 
Ive now considered all the information afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied with the conclusions drawn in the provisional decision.
I appreciate Os concerns that the provisional decision treats certain information weve 
received as confidential  so cannot be discussed in as full a detail as we would generally 
like to do. This isnt a decision Ive taken lightly, but I will again assure O that I have 
considered all submissions by both parties and given the evidence received appropriate 
weighting. 
O has provided additional information about the source of funds, which I thank them for. 
Although I would say its not information that I was entirely unaware of when I issued my 
provisional decision. However, on balance Im not persuaded this demonstrates Os 
entitlement to the funds that were sent from the Starling account.
As Im not satisfied the funds sent represent a true loss to O, I dont see it would be fair to 
ask Starling to refund them under the CRM code.  
Im sorry to hear how this has affected the directors of O. But overall, Im satisfied the £100 
paid for the customer service failings is adequate compensation for the impact.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman