DRN-2948399
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) failed to inform her that her account was 
to be closed and her overdraft debt would be sold to a debt collection agency and is 
unhappy it placed a default on her credit file. 
What happened
Miss B complained to BOS when her account was closed and passed to a third party  she 
says BOS failed to notify her of this.
BOS says Miss Bs account was closed with an outstanding amount because it wasnt being 
maintained. It says before it closed the account numerous holds and fees were refunded to 
the account and letters were sent informing Miss B what was to happen and to get in contact 
with it. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Bs concern and reached the conclusion that the 
letters BOS had sent to Miss B had clearly informed her what she needed to do to keep her 
account and what would happen if no action was taken  that the account would be closed 
and sold to a debt collection agency and that BOS hadnt done anything wrong or treated 
Miss B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Miss B has experienced and see if BOS has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss B back in the position she wouldve 
been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think 
is fair and reasonable.
So the question I have to ask is whether BOS did anything wrong in closing Miss Bs
account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing her account 
and registering a default when she didnt repay back the outstanding balance of her 
overdraft in the required time.  
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I think that BOS acted unfairly when it 
closed Miss Bs account and sold the debt to a third party in July 2020. As prior to this 
happening in February 2019 I can see that BOS sent a letter to the address it had registered 
for Miss B notifying her that her account was in arrears and what was to happen to her 
account. 
Following this it placed a hold on her account for 60 days while Miss B took advice. Miss B 
was then sent a number of formal demand letters (all addressed correctly) which explained 
to her that unless a repayment plan was set up her account would be closed and sent to 
recoveries. As this wasnt done BOS closed her account in January 2020 with an 
outstanding debt which was sold to a third party.  
So Im satisfied BOS was entitled to make the decision to close Miss Bs account as it gave 
Miss B plenty notice of what was to happen if she didnt take appropriate action. 
And I dont think BOS did anything wrong in transferring her account to recoveries when she 
failed to pay back what she owed it  I think its reasonable for BOS to put steps in place to 
recover this  and register a default on her credit file.
I understand that Miss B is concerned about the impact this has had on her credit report, but
BOS has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the
CRAs it subscribes to is factually accurate. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think BOS treated Miss B unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss B  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman