DRN-2947768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the refusal of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc
(RSA) to meet the cost of all the required repairs, in respect of a building insurance claim. 
They believe their claim should be met in full. 
What happened
  
In 2020, after heavy rain, Mr and Mrs B suffered flooding to their property. This resulted in 
damage to the river bank which formed part of the boundary of their property, and to a 
decking area which had supports fixed into the river bank which was damaged.
The damage was inspected by one of RSAs loss adjusters. The claim was initially declined. 
Mr and Mrs B subsequently obtained drawings from a structural engineer, which set out the 
work that needed to be done, to repair the damage that had been sustained to the river 
bank. This was provided to RSA. It then instructed its loss adjuster to look at the claim again 
in light of the new information provided. 
The loss adjuster inspected Mr and Mrs Bs property once more, following a review of the 
additional information Mr and Mrs B had provided. The report recorded that on the incident 
date, there was torrential rain, which had flooded multiple areas of the Midlands region. The 
river running next to Mr and Mrs Bs property burst its banks, submerging their garden and 
the field opposite. 
The report went on to say that the claim had previously been repudiated under the 
subsidence section of the policy, which specifically excluded landslip. It recommended RSA 
reconsider the claim under storm or flood peril coverage, which didnt state that the home 
had to be damaged by the same cause at the same time. 
It also said that due to the complexity of the proposed stabilisation works and costs involved, 
it wasnt able to provide a repair schedule. It suggested this should be referred to a specialist 
to give their opinion on the policy cover and for a surveyor / engineer with relevant 
experience to comment on the proposed works and costs. 
The loss adjuster provided RSA with an estimate of how much it would cost to replace and 
repair the decking. In the description it said under item 3:
The decking can only be installed once the bank has been made safe and secure
No cost was provided for carrying out this work.
Item 4 gave details of the metal posts required to hold up the decking. It said:
These was needed as decking built in to the river bank..We understand around ten 
posts was installed in the banks
RSAs internal case report was updated following this revised loss adjuster report. It 
recorded that the decking fell under the definition of a building so was covered. The river 
bank was land that was outside policy cover. The decking (is) covered under storm (heavy 
rain) not flood. 
RSA in its response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, accepted the garden decking element of 
the claim under the storm (heavy rain) cover provided by the policy. But it said the damage 
to the river bank was classed as land rather than buildings, so wasnt covered under the 
policy. It offered a cash settlement less the policy excess to pay for the decking element of 
the claim. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept RSAs offer and asked our service to look into their concerns. 
Their complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. She didnt uphold the complaint 
because she was of the view that the river bank was classed as land rather than buildings. 
So, it wasnt covered by the policy. But she did think the decking was covered as it was a 
fixed structure. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They said the property was covered for flood. The decking had a 
complicated metal structure, which would need a builder to repair it. They didnt think the 
money offered by RSA would be enough.
In response, the investigator said she thought getting an independent quote rather than 
accepting the money offered might be better. 
Having reviewed the case, I issued my provisional decision on 29 April 2021. I explained 
why I thought Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mrs B told me in response, that 
repair works had already started on the property. 
In its response to my provisional decision, RSA made a number of comments and raised a 
number of questions. Its response took the form of an analysis from one of its technical 
consultants. In summary, the key points were:
It agreed with the principle approach I had taken regarding the need to carry out 
uninsured repairs if required.
It disputed whether there had been a storm conditions or flood at the material time 
that the loss occurred. 
It questioned whether storm or flooding caused to damage to the decking.
I then responded to the technical analysis that RSA provided. I explained that the analysis 
appeared to raise questions that were for RSA to consider and answer internally. But I 
thought it would be helpful to set out my current thinking on the case taking into account the 
main questions and issues that RSA had raised in its analysis. In summary:
I explained why I thought the information RSA had provided about storm conditions 
was wrong. And I explained why I thought there were storm conditions and storm 
force rainfall at the time the damage occurred.
I also explained why I thought there had been flooding at the time the damage 
occurred. And I also explained why I thought the storm and flooding had caused 
damage to the decking.
I provided information supplied by Mrs B, regarding the current position in respect of 
repairs to the riverbank. And I invited RSA to provide me with any further information 
or submissions prior to my issuing a final decision. 
RSA then wrote to me again. In summary: It explained why it didnt think the claim represented storm damage. And it quoted 
case law in support of its argument together with other submissions.
It questioned whether water having escaped caused the decking to collapse. If it was 
water flowing down the river at speed which caused the decking damage, then this 
wouldnt be flood damage. 
RSA then went on to say that it remained of the view that the decking was damaged 
by flood (not storm), and that it must reinstate the decking and include any work 
associated with reinstating the decking. 
It said it needed to establish if the decking could be reinstated without replacing the 
riverbank. And it was willing to instruct specialists to consider what repair method 
would have been warranted under the circumstances, before agreeing reinstatement 
would be the only option. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that there are two elements to Mr and Mrs Bs claim. The first is the damage 
to the decking, and the second is the damage to the river bank which forms part of their 
garden. 
RSA has said in its most recent response to me, that it doesnt accept there was storm 
damage at the time the incident occurred. And it doesnt accept that the claim is covered 
under this policy term.  It has also questioned whether water having escaped, caused the 
decking to collapse. And it said that if water flowing down the river at speed caused the 
decking damage, then this wouldnt be flood damage.
But RSA has gone on to say that it does accept that the decking was damaged by flood (not 
storm), and that it must reinstate the decking and include any work associated with 
reinstating the decking. And this contrasts with its response to Mr and Mrs Bs claim when it 
carried out its review, and agreed to meet the claim in respect of the decking.
As it has accepted it is responsible for the claim under the flooding term of the policy, I dont 
need to make any findings or respond to what it has said in respect of storm conditions at 
the time the incident happened. 
The element of the claim that it still disputes, is whether and to what extent, the riverbank 
which forms part of Mr and Mrs Bs garden, needs to be reinstated so that the decking can 
be replaced. Ive thought carefully about what has been said about this. And for the 
avoidance of any doubt or misunderstanding Ill set out my opinion in relation to any works 
that may need to be carried out to the riverbank in order to repair the decking.
The starting point in relation to the repairs to the decking is that any repair/replacement 
(whether arranged by RSA and simply paid for by RSA), needs to be lasting and effective. 
RSA now accepts that principle in relation to this claim.
When it agreed to meet the claim in respect of the decking, RSA offered a cash settlement 
based on the cost estimate prepared by its loss adjuster. And the policy wording sets out in 
the section on how it will settle any claims, that it might make a cash settlement. But as I 
said in my provisional decision, I do have some concerns about the cash offer its made in 
Mr and Mrs Bs case. And Im slightly puzzled as to why RSA is now saying it needs to be 
established whether the decking can be reinstated without replacing the riverbank. Ill explain 
why.The cost estimate provided by RSAs loss adjuster says:
The decking can only be installed once the bank has been made safe and secure. 
It also goes on to say in respect of the metal posts required to support the decking:
Galvanised metal posts that are holding up the decking - these was needed as decking built 
in to the river bank..We understand around ten posts was installed in the banks.
In respect of the materials for the decking it says:
these measurements was taken from top of river bank because its collapsed and once its 
made safe further measurements are required.
These statements raise several concerns for me. The first is that RSAs loss adjusters 
clearly recognised from its cost estimate, that the decking can only be installed once the 
river bank has been made safe and secure. The supports for the decking are secured into 
the riverbank itself. Its second report also states:
In view of the complexity of the proposed stabilisation works and costs involved we are 
unable to provide a repair schedule. The matter should be referred to a specialist to give 
their opinion of the policy cover and for a surveyor/engineer with relevant experience to 
comment on the proposed works and costs.
Mr and Mrs B have therefore been put in a very difficult position by RSAs offer and stance in 
relation to the claim. And as RSAs offer wouldnt provide a lasting and effective repair, 
Mr and Mrs B have understandably had to commission engineers to carry out reinstatement 
works to the riverbank. 
 
Im still not satisfied that the offer RSA made, will enable Mr and Mrs B to repair/replace the 
decking such that it is lasting and effective and, therefore, put them back in the position they 
need to be put back into before the decking was damaged. I say this because as its own loss 
adjusters have acknowledged, the decking repairs cant be completed until the riverbank into 
which the decking supports need to be sunk, is also repaired. So, I dont understand why 
RSA now appears to be doubting or disputing what its own loss adjuster has said needs to 
be done to reinstate the decking. 
If RSA isnt disputing/doubting what its loss adjuster concluded, then I think it is far too late 
to now be offering to send out an engineer to advise. It had plenty of time to do this when the 
claim was revisited and accepted following the subsequent inspection and report by its loss 
adjuster. Also, as Ive set out above its loss adjuster did suggest that a surveyor/engineer be 
instructed to comment on the proposed work and costs. So, I think that was the time for an 
engineering report to be commissioned.
The estimate strongly suggests to me, that the full cost of the materials required to carry out 
the repairs, cant be accurately estimated until further measurements are taken once the 
river bank has been made safe. So, given what the estimate says, I still think that the offer 
wont necessarily fully cover the costs of repairing the decking.
As a result, I still dont think the cash offer RSA has made is fair, given the particular 
circumstances surrounding this claim, that Ive outlined above. I think that in respect of the 
decking repairs, and taking into account what RSAs own loss adjusters have said needs to 
be done; Mr and Mrs B cant be put back into the pre damage position they are reasonably 
entitled to expect to be put in, until the riverbank is safely repaired and stabilised, to the extent that it allows for the decking to be repaired/replaced. It seems to me that the 
repair/replacement of the decking and the repair to the river bank are intrinsically linked. 
Without the river bank being repaired, I cant see how an effective and lasting repair can be 
carried out to the damaged decking which RSA accepts is covered by the policy. Its clear to 
me from RSAs own loss adjuster report, that the supports for the decking cant be sunk / 
secured, until the river bank into which they have been drilled, has been stabilised and 
repaired.
In my opinion when settling this claim, RSA needs to indemnify Mr and Mrs B to put them 
back into the position in respect of the decking that they were in prior to it being damaged. 
And if it means the only way that this can be done is by carrying out uninsured work to the 
riverbank, then that is what it needs to do. I cant see how RSA can settle Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim in respect of the decking fairly and reasonably without doing so.
If the decking can be repaired/replaced without repairing the riverbank then that is all RSA 
needs to do. But as Ive already explained, the evidence it has from its own loss adjuster 
indicates that the riverbank will need to be repaired/reinstated so that a lasting and effective 
repair can be provided in respect of the decking.
So, in the context of Mr and Mrs Bs claim, this means that RSA needs to include the cost of 
repairing and stabilising the necessary part of the riverbank, to the extent that there is a solid 
and secure foundation for the decking supports, which allows the decking to be put back into 
the position it was in, before it was damaged. 
For the avoidance of any doubt or misunderstanding, I am only saying that RSA needs to 
pay to repair and stabilise the riverbank to the extent that allows the decking to be repaired. 
And based on the evidence supplied by RSA it seems to me to be the only way it can 
properly indemnify Mr and Mrs B in respect of the insured losses that they have suffered. 
From what they have said, Mr and Mrs B have clearly been deeply impacted by the way 
RSA has dealt with their claim. I am satisfied that this caused them much distress and 
inconvenience. They have had the stress of dealing with this claim whilst Mr B has been 
seriously ill. So, I think RSA should also pay them £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the way it has handled their claim. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs B, RSA needs to settle the claim by: 
Paying for any costs involved in stabilising the necessary part of the riverbank to 
enable a lasting and effective repair of the decking. 
Paying for any cost to repair or replace the decking and its supporting structure. 
RSA should also pay Mr and Mrs B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the way it has handled their claim. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. It needs to settle the claim by doing what Ive said in the 
putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 Simon Dibble
Ombudsman