DRN-3724334
The complaint
Miss Bs complaint concerns advice she received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) 
to invest in high risk funds. She has reached retirement age and is now unable to access 
any of the funds within her pension.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, and therefore I have only 
summarised them below.
Miss B received advice from Portal in February 2012. At this time she was 57 and had a 
defined benefit (DB) pension worth approximately £105,000. It was recorded that Miss B had 
a moderately adventurous attitude to investment risk and was looking to access the 
maximum cash amount available from her DB pension.
Miss Bs objectives at the time of advice were recorded as:
to use her existing pension plans to provide an income at a later date and to take her 
tax-free cash entitlement immediately,
to retain a residual fund that remains invested until such a time that she requires an 
income in her retirement,
to ensure that she had a good awareness of investment opportunities available to her,
to ensure her portfolio reflects her current Risk & Reward profile,
to have access to a system which will monitor the performance of her investments; and
to be kept informed of the performance of her portfolio.
Portal didnt recommend Miss B transfer. But it said she was adamant about transferring and 
so it treated her as an insistent client and advised on where she could transfer to on an 
insistent basis. It recommended that Miss B transfer her pension benefits into a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and subsequently invest in a range of relatively illiquid 
funds as follows:
45% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
15% Cool Blue Samui Fund
20% Venture Oil International
7.5% EOS Solar Energy
12.5% Cash Deposit
 
At this time, Miss B agreed with this statement included with Portals suitability letter:
I fully understand that the funds invested in the Transact SIPP are relatively illiquid and 
therefore may not produce an income in the first few years of starting the SIPP. This is 
acceptable to me as I do not wish to take an income for 7 years and therefore do not 
need to access the funds within my SIPP at this time.
Miss B proceeded with the recommendation and the application forms were signed on 
29 February 2012.
 
In June 2021, Miss B complained to Portal that she was unable to withdraw any funds from 
her SIPP. 
In its final response to her complaint, Portal said it had decided not to investigate it. It said it 
believed the complaint fell outside of the regulators time limits for raising a complaint. 
Miss B didnt agree with this so referred her complaint to our service. As Portal objected to 
us considering it, our services jurisdiction over the complaint was the subject of an 
ombudsmans decision. This concluded that Miss Bs complaint was made within the time 
limits and was one our service could consider. 
Having considered the merits of Miss Bs complaint, our investigator thought it should be 
upheld. In summary, he thought Portal hadnt acted fairly. He said its treatment of Miss B as 
an insistent client wasnt correct and the investment funds selected werent suitable for her. 
However, the investigator concluded that even if Portal had provided suitable advice, Miss B 
would have still transferred given her objectives. But he said she would have invested 
differently if advised appropriately. And he set out the methodology he thought Portal should 
use to establish if Miss B had suffered a financial loss as a result of its unsuitable advice. 
And if a loss was identified, he told Portal how he thought Miss B should be compensated for 
this. 
Miss B accepted the investigators view, but Portal didnt respond. So the complaint has 
come to me to consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As an initial matter, I have reconsidered whether this complaint is within the jurisdiction of 
our service, and I have reviewed all the evidence and arguments surrounding this. Having 
done so I see no reason to depart from the decision previously reached, so Im satisfied this 
complaint is one this service has the power to consider. 
In respect of the merits of Miss Bs complaint, I agree with the investigator that it should be 
upheld, for broadly the same reasons. I also agree with the redress methodology the 
investigator set out.  Ill explain.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
findings and reasons for reaching them. No discourtesy is intended by this. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because I havent considered it - I have carefully 
considered all of the submissions made in this complaint  but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. It is also important to note that this service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for 
their conduct  that is the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Instead, the Financial Ombudsman looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. In order to uphold a complaint I would need to find that something 
has gone wrong and that a consumer has lost out as a result. I would then ask the business 
to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
When assessing the suitability of the advice given to Miss B by Portal, I have to consider it in 
light of the information available when the advice was given, and not by using hindsight. Ive 
also looked at it in the context of the rules and guidance in existence at the time. Within the 
FCA handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Portal advised Miss B were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance was to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Portal, took reasonable steps to provide advice that was suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure they werent inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objectives and risk profile. 
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I consider at when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information 
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the 
advice; their financial situation; and their investment objectives. 
Overall, Im not satisfied Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Ordinarily, when considering advice to transfer from a DB scheme to a personal pension 
plan, I would first determine if the advice to transfer in the first place was suitable keeping in 
mind the regulatory requirements set out above. Our investigator thought the advice wasnt 
suitable and Miss B wasnt properly treated as an insistent client. Portal didnt provide a 
response to these findings. But I dont consider that this analysis is necessary here as I 
agree with the investigator that Miss B would have transferred from her occupational pension 
scheme regardless of the advice she received.
Miss B has explained that at the time of advice she was in financial difficulties. She also said 
that her brother, the sole carer of her elderly mother was also experiencing financial 
difficulties. Miss B said her health was suffering as a result of this situation and she hadnt 
been able to find alternative solutions to resolve things. And from what Ive seen, it doesnt 
appear she had viable alternatives to accessing cash from her pension. I also note that 
Miss B said she did use the tax-free cash paid to her from her pension to resolve her and her 
brothers financial difficulties. In light of all of this, the investigator concluded that even if 
suitable advice had been given Miss B would have still transferred from her DB scheme to 
access tax-free cash. Miss B has not disputed this. And given her circumstances at the time, 
I agree.  So in order to reach a fair outcome in this complaint, I need only to consider the 
investments Portal recommended as part of its advice and whether these were suitable for 
Miss B.
When considering the type of investments Miss B could make, Portal had a duty of care to 
make sure the investment advice was suited to her ATR and investment experience. Over 
85% of the investment funds Portal advised Miss B to hold in her SIPP were classed as 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS). In July 2010 the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) issued guidance 
about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor Practice report. This contained 
examples of good practice in relation to unregulated investments, for example where a firm 
had robust controls in place and limited client exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where 
those clients had been assessed as being suitable for unregulated investments. An example 
of bad practice given by the FSA was where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested 
in a single UCIS. And contrary to what the regulator said, Portal recommended nearly 90% 
of Miss Bs pension be invested across four UCIS funds. 
UCIS are generally considered to be high risk investments. This is because they are 
unregulated, have liquidity risks, and have a high degree of volatility. They also have little or 
no track record, so it is difficult to value them accurately. 
Portal have recorded Miss B as having a moderate to adventurous attitude to risk (ATR). 
And Portal explained that
Moderately Adventurous investors typically have moderate to high levels of financial 
knowledge and will usually keep up to date on financial issues. They will usually be fairly 
experienced investors, who have used a range of investment products in the past.
Im not persuaded that this ATR was appropriate for Miss B. I say this because the pension 
being transferred was her only pension, Ive seen no evidence that she had any other 
investments or significant savings or assets. From what was recorded at the time, I think 
Miss B had a low capacity for loss. It was also recorded that she said that her highest priority 
for retirement was to preserve her fund for as long as possible. In light of this, I dont 
consider that Miss B had the risk appetite or the experience to match the investments Portal 
recommended for her. And I cannot see shed have fully understood the nature, and the 
associated risks, of the investments she entered into. 
Whilst I accept Portal set out various risk warnings, this alone isnt enough to make 
unsuitable investments become suitable. The FCA (formerly the FSA) also said that UCIS 
was only eligible for promotion to a certain type of customer  usually sophisticated, high net 
worth investors, or one of the eight categories detailed in COBS 4.12. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Miss B was the type of investor who might be deemed suitable to invest in such 
funds. 
Having taken everything into account, I agree that Portals advice to invest Miss Bs pension 
provision into the UCIS funds was unsuitable. So Portal is responsible for any losses to the 
value of her pension plan
Putting things right
My aim is that Miss B should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Miss B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Miss B's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Miss B fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Miss B's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Portal should pay into Miss B's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Miss B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Miss 
B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Miss B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Miss B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Miss B how much has been taken off. Portal should give Miss B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Miss B asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Transact 
SIPPStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Miss B provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount she may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Transact SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
The Transact SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Transact SIPP to 
be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid 
assets, or this is something that Miss B can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Miss B an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the Transact SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Miss B wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Miss B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Miss B into that position. It does not mean that Miss 
B would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Miss B could have obtained from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Miss B in a clear, 
simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP 
should pay Miss B the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 
plus any interest on the amount set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Portal Financial Services LLP pays Miss B the 
balance plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Portal 
Financial Services LLP. It is unlikely that Miss B can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance. Miss B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Portal Financial Services LLP does not pay the recommended amount, then any portfolio 
currently illiquid should be retained by Miss B. This is until any future benefit that she may 
receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Portal Financial Services 
LLP (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP may request an undertaking from Miss B that either she 
repays to Portal Financial Services LLP any amount Miss B may receive from the portfolio 
thereafter or if possible, transfers the portfolio to Portal at that point.
Miss B should be aware that any such amount would be paid into her pension plan so she 
may have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman