DRN-3081877
The complaint
Miss K complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card account 
and later increased the credit limits. She says the lending was unaffordable.
What happened
Miss K says she opened the NewDay credit card account in 2015. She says her credit file 
was poor at the time with other lending. Miss K says the credit limit was increased and they 
were also unaffordable. She would like interest and charges refunded and realised the 
lending was unaffordable in 2021 when her consolidation loan became difficult to repay.
NewDay says the account was opened in June 2015 with a credit limit of £450. It says Miss 
K told it she was working and could see that she didnt have any adverse information such 
as defaults or arrears on her credit file. NewDay says the credit limits were correctly 
assessed and the account was closed in early 2017 with the full balance repaid.
Miss K brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought NewDay carried out appropriate checks when the account was opened 
but noted NewDay concluded Miss K had high levels of unsecured debt. The investigator 
thought the two credit limit increases in December 2015 to £650 and in April 2016 to £850 
were also correctly assessed and relatively small. But he thought the last increase in 
October 2016 to £1,650 was significant and unaffordable. And that further checks should 
have been carried out such as on Miss Ks bank account which would have shown that she 
was dependant on her overdraft. The investigator recommended NewDay refund interest 
which he calculated at about £74 and pay 8% interest on that amount until the complaint was 
settled.
Miss K accepts that view but NewDay does not. In summary it says the affordability 
requirements in 2016 were different and it wasnt required to check bank account 
statements. It also questions if there is evidence of the consolidation loan and says Miss K 
must have passed credit checks with another lender to obtain that loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint in part and for 
slightly different reasons to those of the investigator. I dont think those differences require 
me to issue a provisional decision as they relate to the award calculation.
Lenders and credit providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than a loan or 
mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected NewDays checks to have been as detailed as for 
that type of lending, but of course appropriate checks still have to be carried out. I accept 
that the requirements on lenders was different in 2015 and 2016 but I still have to consider if 
the lending was appropriate.
Im satisfied having looked at NewDays records that Miss K applied for the credit card 
account in June 2015 and declared an income of £15,000 a year. I can see that NewDay 
checked Miss Ks credit file and concluded that there wasnt any adverse information 
recorded on it such as arrears or defaults. But I can also see that NewDay recorded that 
Miss K had a low income and high levels of debt. I will come back to that point. So, Im 
satisfied that NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on the application 
and approved what I think is a very modest credit limit of £450. It follows that I dont think the 
lending was unaffordable or irresponsible.
The credit limit was increased to £650 in December 2015. I find that was again a very 
modest increase and I can see that checks were carried out by NewDay before the increase 
was offered. I dont think that increase was unaffordable.
The credit limit was again increased in April 2016 to £850. I think this increase of £200 was 
again modest and that the overall credit limit was still below £1,000. It follows that I dont 
think that increase was irresponsible or unaffordable. But I think at that stage NewDay ought 
to have been aware of how Miss K was using the account and that her payments were close 
to the minimum required.
In October 2016 NewDay increased the credit limit from £850 to £1,650. Im satisfied that 
was almost doubling the credit limit and was significant. I say that as NewDay knew that 
Miss Ks income was relatively low, and it knew she had high levels of other debt. So, I think 
it ought to have carefully considered if such a large increase was appropriate. I think it ought 
to have looked at Miss Ks account management and that she tended to use the new credit 
limits almost immediately. And that she was close to her credit limit. I appreciate the 
investigator thought that NewDay ought to have checked Miss Ks bank account statements. 
I accept that may not have been NewDays practice, but I also think such information was 
available on Miss Ks credit file.
I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out on the last credit limit 
increase. And whilst I accept NewDays regulatory requirements were different then, I think 
this was a significant credit limit increase that required further consideration. I think it likely 
that had further checks been carried out then NewDay ought to have concluded the lending 
was unaffordable.
I appreciate NewDay questions the evidence of the consolidation loan. I have looked 
carefully at Miss Ks credit file and can see that she took out a loan in December 2016 for 
about £11,000 that was repaid by a further loan taken out in 2017. I can also see that later 
loan is in arrears which is the reason Miss K says she now complains about the original 
lending.
I can see from NewDays records that Miss K used the new credit limit immediately in 
October 2016 following a familiar pattern. That would not have had a significant impact when 
the increases were fairly small. But I have made clear this was a relatively significant 
increase and required further checks. And at the point of that last increase I think NewDay 
ought reasonably to have had enough information about how Miss K managed her account, 
the type of payments she made and the exceeding of the previous existing limits to have 
realised a credit limit increase without further checks and enquiries was inappropriate and 
irresponsible.
Putting things right
I intend to order NewDay to refund any interest and charges applied to Miss Ks account following the last credit limit increase and caused by that credit limit increase. I also think 
that NewDay should pay 8% simple interest on that award and if a deduction of taxation is 
made then Miss K should be provided with a certificate of that deduction. I make clear that I 
dont intend to calculate that award as the investigator has done and will leave it to NewDay 
to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order NewDay Ltd to refund any 
interest and charges applied to Miss Ks account following the last credit limit increase and 
pay 8% simple interest on that award until settlement. If NewDay deduct any taxation from 
that award, then a certificate of deduction should be provided to Miss K.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman