DRN-3339957
The complaint
Mr R complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under his home emergency policy. 
His complaint is about the time taken to fix a water leak at his property and what he 
considers unnecessary additional work carried out.
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
What happened
In November 2020 a problem arose with the water supply at Mr Rs property, so he 
contacted Aviva to report the issue. Aviva arranged for an engineer to visit, which they did 
two days later, checking toilets and taps. But they couldnt diagnose the problem. A second 
engineer visited two days later and following investigation a leak from the mains water 
supply was diagnosed. Subsequent visits were made at different points to carry out work to 
replace the mains water supply pipe (and re-route it) as well as other work on internal pipes 
at the property in the kitchen and toilet. In total, ten separate visits were made before the 
work was completed in April 2021.
Mr R was unhappy at the number of visits required before the work was completed. He was 
also unhappy at having to take time off work (which he estimated to total six and a half days) 
to be at the property for the visits. Mr R was also concerned about some of the work carried 
out being unnecessary, including replacement of valves and internal pipework. He didnt 
think the work was necessary when the problem was with the external mains water supply, 
and that the work was carried out without it being discussed or agreed with him.
Mr R complained to Aviva. In their final response, Aviva upheld his complaint in part. They 
agreed the problem could have been resolved sooner than it was. They also acknowledged 
there were occasions when one engineer attended when the job required two, times where 
an engineer failed to attend when scheduled and where engineers attended without the 
correct equipment. They also accepted theyd not kept Mr R informed about progress. In 
recognition of these issues, Aviva apologised to Mr R and offered £270 in compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. But they didnt uphold the part of his complaint that some work 
was unnecessary, saying where engineers found issues during investigation, they were 
obligated to rectify them.
Unhappy at what happened and Avivas final response, Mr R complained to this 
service. The main points of his complaint were, firstly, that the problem should have 
been resolved sooner and in fewer visits (he thought no more than three or four). 
Secondly, that the compensation offered didnt reflect the time off hed had to take as 
well as other additional costs hed incurred. Thirdly, that unnecessary work was 
carried out (replacement of valves and of copper pipework with plastic pipework) 
without being discussed or agreed with him. Mr R thought this had no relation to the 
external mains water supply problem. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Aviva hadnt acted fairly. He 
acknowledged what Aviva had said when accepting the problem could have been 
resolved sooner, as well as the issues with some visits being made without the right 
number of engineers or the correct equipment. On the issue of whether some work 
had been unnecessary, he thought it unlikely Aviva would have agreed to incur the 
costs of work carried out that wasnt necessary, and that the additional work arose 
from investigation of the leak and what the engineers judged necessary. On the issue 
of compensation, he thought Aviva should increase their compensation to £350 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. He didnt think the internal work at the property was necessary 
(beyond a new pipe from the re-routed supply pipe to the isolation valve/stopcock). 
He also wanted the plastic pipework installed by Aviva to be replaced with copper 
pipework (to return it to how it was originally). In raising this point, Mr R also said he 
considered the unnecessary replacement of the pipework would constitute criminal 
damage by Aviva. He also asked a specific question about why (on the first visit in 
November 2020) two internal engineers were sent out, when the issue was a leak to 
the external mains water supply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr R.
In considering Mr Rs complaint, Id want to reassure him Ive considered all his points, both 
when making his complaint to this service and those made subsequently in response to our 
investigators view. In doing so, Ive concentrated on what I think are the main issues. Firstly, 
the time taken to resolve the problem with the leak, together with the number of visits before 
work was finally completed. Secondly, what would be a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for the acknowledged issues in the resolution of the problem and the time 
taken (including time Mr R had to take off). Thirdly, that Aviva carried out unnecessary work 
on elements of internal pipework and valves, in particular replacement of valves (as they 
were stiff, rather than needing replacement) and the replacement of copper pipework with 
plastic pipework. Finally, the specific issue of internal engineers attending initially when the 
issue was the external mains water supply.
On the first issue, Ive considered the sequence of events, including the number of visits, 
together with the case notes and what Mr R has told us. Mr R maintains the problem should 
have been resolved in, at most, three to four visits (rather than the ten in total between 
November 2020 and April 2021). For their part, Aviva accept the problem could have been 
resolved sooner than it was and there were occasions when one engineer attended when 
the job required two, times where an engineer failed to attend when scheduled and where 
engineers attended without the correct equipment. They also accepted theyd not kept Mr R 
informed about progress. While its not for me to say how many visits should have been 
required to fix the problem, its clear there were more than there should have been. Its also 
clear that this inconvenienced Mr R more than it needed to, including his having to be at the 
property when visits were made. Ive thought about what Aviva needs to do to put things 
right when considering the second issue, what would be reasonable compensation.
Turning to this issue, in their final response viva offered Mr R £270 in compensation 
for the inconvenience hed suffered. Our investigator thought £350 would be a fair 
and reasonable figure. Mr R makes the point that he had to take off the equivalent of 
some six and a half days in total. While I appreciate what Mr R has said about the 
amount of time he had to take off, as a service we think about the impact that the 
actions of a business have on the consumer and based on that we consider what would be fair and reasonable compensation. While Mr R doesnt consider the £270 
offered by Aviva to be sufficient, he hasnt said what he thinks would be appropriate. 
Having thought about all the circumstances of the case, I think £350 for distress and 
inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
On the third issue, whether unnecessary work was carried out, Ive looked carefully at 
the evidence and information available. Mr R maintains that as the problem with the 
leak was the external mains water supply, the internal work to replace valves and 
some pipework was unnecessary (and therefore Aviva should restore, in particular, 
the copper pipework replaced by plastic pipework). For their part, Aviva say their 
engineers are obligated to remedy issues found when investigation of a problem 
indicates the need for additional work. From what Ive seen its also accepted it would 
be unlikely that the engineer would have replaced it without reason (nor Aviva would 
have incurred the cost of replacement). Specifically, on the copper pipework replaced 
by plastic pipework, they also argue that as the replacement pipework has been 
operating normally for a period, they dont see the need for it to be replaced by new 
copper pipework.
Ive considered both views, but on balance Im not persuaded that Aviva should have 
to replace the plastic pipework with new copper pipework. From what Mr R has told 
us, it appears his main concern (in addition to the work being unnecessary in his 
view) is that aesthetically the plastic pipework doesnt match other copper pipework in 
that part of the property. However, Im not persuaded thats sufficient reason to 
require Aviva to replace it. Avivas case notes dont record the reason why the 
engineer determined that the pipework in question needed to be replaced  although 
from what Mr R has told us it seems that the pipework was replaced as part of the 
work to replace valves (which the engineer thought had seized). 
While Mr R says he challenged this (saying they were stiff) it appears the engineer 
replaced them. There isnt any direct evidence from the engineer about that decision 
(for example, that the valves might have needed to be replaced in the future, so 
replacing them at the time might have been precautionary). In the absence of such 
clear evidence, Im not able to say that the decision to replace the valves (and 
associated pipework) was unreasonable, so I dont think there are grounds to ask 
Aviva to replace the pipework. 
Mr R also says that the [unnecessary] replacement of the pipework constitutes 
criminal damage (under the Criminal Damage Act 1971). However, this service cant 
make a finding on whether an action of a business constitutes criminal damage, only 
a court can do this. So, Ive not considered this aspect further.
The final question concerns the initial visit to assess the cause of the leak. Mr R has 
questioned why Aviva sent two internal engineers to assess what he had said was 
an underground external mains water leak. Looking at Avivas case notes, it appears 
that Aviva categorised the issue as being internal pipes (possibly leak to the septic 
tank). While this may have been a misunderstanding, it would have explained why 
internal engineers were initially sent to investigate. However, as noted above, a 
second engineer visited two days later and following investigation a leak from the 
mains water supply was diagnosed. While this caused some delay in diagnosing the 
problem, as it appears to be only a couple of days, I dont think thats unreasonable. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr R:
£350 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman