DRN-2982053
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain about problems theyve experienced in relation to a mortgage they 
hold with Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Woolwich (Barclays). 
What happened
Mrs and Mr R have a mortgage with Barclays. Theyve regularly made over payments. 
In December 2020, Barclays wrote to Mrs and Mr R saying theyd missed the payment for 
November and that they were £3,000 in arrears. This was recorded on Mr and Mrs Rs credit 
file. And Barclays also recorded Decembers payment as being missed.  
In January 2021, another bank with whom Mr R had a credit card with wrote to him to say 
that it would be closing his account. In its letter, the other bank said this was due to Mr R not 
using the card for some time. But Mr R said that, after speaking with the other bank, hed 
found out it was because of the negative information showing on his credit file as a result of 
what Barclays had recorded. 
Mrs and Mr R complained to Barclays who explained that it hadnt applied overpayments to 
the mortgage account correctly, which is why the account was showing as in arrears. It 
agreed that it had made a mistake and said it would rectify this and amend their credit files. It 
confirmed Mrs and Mr Rs correct mortgage balance and offered them £650 compensation 
for the upset this had caused. 
In April 2021 Mrs and Mr R confirmed to us that their credit files had been rectified, but they 
were not confident that their mortgage balance was now correct. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint and thought Barclays had put Mrs and Mr R back in the position 
they shouldve been had the mistake not occurred. They we also satisfied that the £650 
compensation was a fair amount in the circumstances.
Mrs and Mr R didnt agree. They didnt think the amount of compensation was enough. And 
they werent confident that the mortgage balance was now correct. They also wanted an 
explanation of how this mistake had occurred. The complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything that Mrs and Mr R have said and provided to us as well as the 
submissions by Barclays. If I dont address certain points, its not because I havent 
considered them. Its because Im going to focus on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint. In this case, its that Mrs and Mr R think their mortgage balance is incorrect and 
the amount of compensation for the upset this matter has caused them. I hope Mrs and Mr R 
realise I mean no disrespect by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. 
Ill address each point separately.
The mortgage balance
Mrs and Mr R say they believe their mortgage balance isnt correct and dont think they 
should simply accept Barclays word that it is, given the previous mistakes. They are also 
unhappy that they havent received a sufficient explanation as to how the mistake occurred. 
Barclays has explained to us that the initial error occurred when an incorrect amount of 
overpayment was capitalised in November 2020. By capitalised, I mean any overpayment 
going from showing the account in credit to actually being removed from the balance. This 
led to the overpayments not being correctly applied to the account and causing the account 
to show in arrears when it wasnt. 
Unfortunately, because this mistake has now been rectified, Barclays are unable to expand 
further on its explanation of how the mistake occurred. I do understand why this must be 
frustrating to Mrs and Mr R. However, its not unusual to not be able to show a mistake once 
an account has been amended to reflect the true position. Having considered Barclays 
explanation for the mistake, it appears to be a reasonable one and so, in these 
circumstances, Ive no reason to doubt this is not what caused the mistake. 
I fully understand why Mrs and Mr R arent confident that their mortgage is balance is now 
correct. And they still believe the balance is too high. However, mortgage calculations are 
incredibly complex, and its very difficult to work them out manually  especially when 
overpayments are involved. 
Unfortunately, we are unable to offer an auditing service for mortgage accounts. But I have 
looked at the current mortgage account statement which has been provided to us by 
Barclays (and a copy of which was provided to Mrs and Mr R). Having done so, I see no 
obvious errors which have been made. And it looks like, on the face of things, the mortgage 
is now showing in the correct position it should be had the mistake not occurred. I can see 
that Mrs and Mr Rs payments did change briefly after the initial mistake was made, but the 
account has since been amended to reflect this mistake and Barclays explanation for this 
has been provided to Mrs and Mr R.
Considering everything Ive been provided with, Im not persuaded that Mrs and Mr Rs 
mortgage balance is wrong. 
Compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused
Its clear this has been a very frustrating and upsetting time for Mrs and Mr R. They received 
the letter advising them their mortgage was in arrears (when they werent) just before 
Christmas. Mrs and Mr R have sent us call logs which show theyve clearly spent a large 
amount of time on the phone to Barclays trying to rectify this. And it seems this nearly 
resulted in Mr R having a credit card with another bank withdrawn.
However, all mistakes were rectified by April 2021. And I cant see that they applied for any 
other borrowing during this time. So, the only impact this had wouldve been the upset of 
knowing that their credit file had been impacted and the time spent trying to resolve this. I 
know it will feel like this has been going on for much longer for Mrs and Mr R given that they 
referred their complaint to us, and they still dont accept that the mortgage balance is correct. 
But Im satisfied that Barclays had corrected its error by April 2021.
Mrs and Mr R have said that they should be compensated individually i.e. an award for each 
of them. This is a joint mortgage. So, I need to make a joint award for any distress and 
inconvenience experienced. But this doesnt mean I havent looked at and considered the 
impact on each of them. I understand that Mrs and Mr R feel very strongly about this matter. And Ive thought 
carefully about this. Having done so, I think that the £650 Barclays has offered for 
compensation fairly reflects the impact its mistakes have had on both Mrs and Mr R and is 
fair and reasonable in this situation. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and leave it to Mrs and Mr R to decide whether they wish to 
accept the offer of £650 compensation which I consider fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman