DRN-3260931
The complaint
Mrs W, who is represented by her husband, Mr W complains that Hyundai Capital UK 
Limited (HC) rejected her complaint that her car had been an unacceptable software 
upgrade.
What happened
Mrs W acquired a new car in April 2021. It cost £38,500 and was funded by a deposit of 
£8,000 and the balance with a fixed sum loan agreement. The loan agreement shows that 
the funds were paid to the dealer to cover the cost of the car and the first registration fee. 
The car was taken in for its first service in July 2021. I gather she told the dealer that the SIM 
card and UVO App were not working. The dealer carried out an AVN update which rectified 
the fault. This altered the colour and layout of the display screen plus the functionality which 
was not to her liking. HC has said that the upgrade did not change any of the key features. 
An invoice was produced for the upgrade which had unit price of £100 but was carried out 
free of charge. 
Mr W asked the dealer to reverse the upgrade, but this was not possible.
Mr W suggested his wife be compensated in some way for the upgrade as he believed it 
wasnt carried out with reasonable care or skill. He suggested a partial refund and mentioned 
the figure of £2,040. HC did not accept that the car was faulty or that compensation was 
merited. It also declined to make a goodwill offer.
Mrs W brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mrs W has asked that the complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Hyundai Capital UK is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price, and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I believe there are three reasons why I cannot uphold this complaint, but first I need to make 
clear the basis of the complaint.
Mrs Ws complaint is not about the car which she was sold, but with the upgrade carried out 
some five months later. At the time of sale I gather it was not faulty. It seems the issue with 
the UVO App and SIM card arose after 30 days had elapsed but before six months had 
passed and this means that the dealer is entitled to one opportunity to repair it. It did so by 
installing an upgrade and I consider that to have repaired the issue. I appreciate that Mr and 
Mrs W may not like the upgraded system, but it does provide the key functionality of the 
earlier version. I cannot see how the installation of the new system can be said to have been 
a breach of contract. In simple terms the original system apparently had a fault and this was 
repaired. 
I presume Mr and Mrs W drew the dealers attention to the original issue and so I presume 
they sought to have it fixed. They did not seek to reject the car on the basis of the original 
issue. I would add that the original fault was such that rejection would not be something one 
would regard as appropriate.
I have read the extract of the brochure provided by Mr W which covers the UVO connect 
system and I can understand his view that he expected this to be retained in perpetuity. I 
dont agree. Modern cars contain a significant amount of software and most are given 
upgrade from time to time. I do not consider it reasonable to conclude that because the 
upgrade was not to Mr and Mrs Ws liking that it rendered the car unfit for purpose or that the 
dealer was wrong to install it as a means of resolving the issue. 
I would now turn to the three reasons why I consider I cannot uphold this complaint.
1. The service was not funded by HC.
Mrs W can only seek redress for an item or service funded by HC. As I have noted above 
the money paid over by HC to the dealer was to cover the cost of the car and the initial road 
fund tax. It did not cover the cost of the servicing. Additionally, the invoice from the dealer 
sets out how the price is made up and it states that the 3-year service plan is free of charge. 
Mr W has helpfully explored who did pay for this and has identified it was Kia Motors (UK) 
Limited. So as part of the deal with the dealer Mrs W benefited from free servicing paid for 
by Kia Motors (UK) Limited. I cannot see any reference to HC making a payment to Kia 
Motors for the servicing. 
That means HC did not pay towards the cost of the service. Therefore, I consider it follows 
that HC cannot be held responsible for any failings there may have been in the way the 
service was carried out.
2. The upgrade wasnt part of the service.
I have also noted that the dealer provided a separate invoice for the upgrade and it does not 
appear to have carried it out as part of the service. This invoice was made out to the dealer, I presume as part of it internal record keeping system, but it indicates that it was carried out 
and funded by the dealer. If this is correct then, as I have set above, HC did not fund the 
upgrade. This also means it cannot be held responsible for the alleged failings. 
3. A software upgrade does not contravene consumer rights.
Finally, I do not consider this upgrade contravenes Mrs Ws consumer rights. I consider it to 
have been carried out with reasonable care and skill. The dealer is not responsible for the 
content of the upgrade; that lies with the manufacturer. It simply updated software which is 
routine these days. Mrs Ws complaint is mainly about the look of the new system and the 
inability to alter the colour scheme. 
I have some sympathy with her and her husband since they may well have preferred the old 
display system, but that of itself does not amount to a contravention of consumer law as it 
does not make the car or the display system unfit for purpose. I cannot say that this upgrade 
amounts to a breach of contract.
In conclusion I do not consider I have grounds which would allow me to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman