DRN-3374889
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service hes received from National House-Building Council
(NHBC) when making claims under his building warranty.
What happened
Mr S purchased a new home and it came with a ten-year NHBC building warranty which
started in 2014. Since then there have been a number of issues with Mr S home, so hes
needed to make claims to both the developer and NHBC. Hes also raised several
complaints with NHBC about their handling of his claims. Over the course of the claims and
complaints, NHBC has offered compensation at different points and agreed on next steps for
the reported issues with Mr S home.
This claim and complaint relate to a longstanding issue with the Mechanical Ventilation and
Heat Recovery (MVHR) system in Mr S home, and problems with the flooring in various
rooms. Mr S was unhappy with NHBCs handling of things, so he approached this service.
At first, NHBC said part of Mr S complaint fell outside our jurisdiction. This was because
they said Mr S hadnt approached this service until outside the six-month timescale in their
final response(s). Following review and correspondence with our investigator, NHBC agreed
that we could consider things.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. In relation to the MVHR, he said
that NHBC had recognised Mr S concerns and had agreed to arrange for a specialist to look
at the unit and installation to establish if it was now conforming with requirements, or
whether further work was required. Our investigator said in principle this was reasonable, but
as there were delays in organising this after being agreed by NHBC, he said Mr S should be
compensated a further £100 for the additional delays in this being carried out.
In relation to the tiled flooring at Mr S home, our investigator said the claim position had
changed several times since NHBC had first inspected in October 2019, including after Mr S
raised complaints and NHBC then reinspected. This resulted in previous claim decisions
being overturned, over an extended period. He also noted that NHBC had said they would
inspect all the areas reported by Mr S, and whilst this had resulted in a further partial claim
acceptance, theyd missed some areas.
In our investigators opinion, he said NHBC should accept the claim for the tiles in the main
bathroom based on the same reasoning they had already accepted the claims for
conservatory and en-suite tiling. He also said that NHBC should have accepted and offered
settlement for all three rooms at an earlier point. As NHBC were cash settling the tile claims
and hadnt looked at or accepted all rooms when they should have, he said that NHBC
should also add 8% simple interest to the total settlement for all rooms from when, in his
view, they should have considered and accepted them in October 2020.
Our investigator recognised that NHBC had more recently offered an additional £450 for part
of the flooring claim and complaint. But he didnt think this was enough. So, in addition to the
additional £100 compensation he recommended for the ongoing MHVR issue, he said NHBC
should also pay a further £200 for the tiling part of the claim and complaint. Therefore, in
total our investigator recommended an additional £300, on top of the compensation NHBC
had already offered in the various previous complaints.
NHBC agreed with the £300 increase in compensation. They also agreed to accept the main
bathroom tile claim.
But NHBC didnt agree to pay 8% interest on the total cash settlement amounts. NHBC said
they made settlement offers for the accepted rooms at different points during the course of
the claim and complaints. So, they didnt think they should pay 8% interest on all of the
settlement offers from 7 October 2020  the date our investigator suggested - to the date of
payment.
Our investigator said that NHBC shouldve accepted and settled all of the tiling claims in
October 2020 but didnt. He said this led to Mr S needing to dispute the settlements, raise
complaints and encounter further avoidable delays. And he then needed to bring a complaint
to this service. As a result of this, our investigator concluded, which NHBC agreed with, that
the main bathroom should also have been included in the claim settlement. So, he explained
this is why he believed NHBC should pay 8% simple interest for all the tiling settlements, and
from 7 October 2020 to the current time. NHBC didnt agree.
Mr S mostly agreed with our investigators recommendations and view of things. However,
he said his concerns remained with the MVHR unit and installation. He said that a recent
inspection had been carried out as NHBC had agreed previously, but he wasnt satisfied with
this, or the possible next steps which might happen. Our investigator said the next steps
and/or outcome of the investigation werent known at this stage. But when they were, if Mr S
remained dissatisfied, we could look at that as a new separate complaint. So, he said he
wouldnt be looking at that as part of this complaint.
As an agreement couldnt be reached overall, an ombudsman was asked for a final decision.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment, before I reached my 
final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.There have been multiple issues with Mr S home which resulted in him needing to 
make several claims to NHBC under his building warranty. Several complaints have 
also been made, and NHBC has issued responses to those complaints.
There are two main elements to the complaint Im considering here. That is the 
MVHR unit and the tiled flooring in Mr S home. I dont intend on commenting 
individually on every event or action that occurred throughout. I dont mean this as a 
discourtesy to either party, but both parties are already aware of what has happened. 
Instead Ill focus on what I believe is important in reaching a decision which is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. Having said that, Id like to 
reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information theyve provided when 
reaching my decision.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im minded to reach a slightly different outcome on 
what NHBC needs to do to put things right to that recommended by our investigator. 
There is also one point which hasnt been addressed by our investigator, and I 
wanted to outline my thoughts on next steps for that here in my provisional decision, 
before I reach my final decision.
NHBC also raised jurisdiction concerns that some elements relating to previous 
complaints were outside our jurisdiction. This was on the basis that NHBC said Mr S 
didnt approach us within six months of the date of their final response letter(s). But 
following discussion with our investigator who believed the complaint was in our 
jurisdiction and the time limit didnt apply, NHBC agreed that this was something we 
could consider. Therefore, as our services power to consider these issues is no 
longer in dispute, I dont need to comment on the jurisdiction elements further in this 
provisional decision.
The MVHR unit
Mr S reported concerns with his MVHR unit and installation to NHBC. He was 
worried that it didnt comply with requirements and posed a safety risk. As this was 
initially raised within the first two years of Mr S building warranty, it fell under section 
two of the policy and was within the builder liability period. What this means is that, in 
the first instance, the builder is responsible for rectifying damage or defects reported 
to them.
If the builder fails to do so, NHBC can offer a resolution service to try to move things 
forward. And if the builder then fails to do works directed by NHBC as part of that 
resolution service, NHBC can then take over the builders responsibilities under the 
policy and deal with the claim. This is what happened here, NHBC took over the 
MVHR claim from the builder.
Further repairs and replacement of the MVHR unit was carried out. However, Mr S 
had ongoing concerns about the installation and system. Due to this, NHBC agreed 
to arrange for a third party to carry out tests to see if the unit conformed with the 
relevant requirements, or whether any further work was required.
NHBC confirmed this in their final response in July 2021. They also offered £450
compensation for other issues relating to the flooring which Ill address below.In principle, given the concerns Mr S has raised about his MVHR system, I think it 
was fair and reasonable for NHBC to arrange to appoint a third party to check the 
system and whether any additional works are required. However, after agreeing to 
appoint a third party, there have been around a further six months of delays in this 
being arranged. So, whilst NHBC had acknowledge things in July 2021 and set out 
the next steps, this didnt take into account the further six months in arranging this 
after that time. Our investigator recommended a further £100 compensation be paid 
for this.
Given the risk concerns Mr S has about his MVHR and the delay in arranging tests 
has caused additional distress, I think a further £100 compensation for the additional 
delays is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S has also said he remains concerned following the recent visit and tests being 
carried out, and potential next steps depending on those results. But thats not 
something I can consider here. As outlined by our investigator, once the outcome of 
that is known, if Mr S remains dissatisfied, hed need to raise this with NHBC in the 
first instance, before referring back to us as a new separate complaint if he remains 
unhappy.
The tiles in Mr S home
Mr S first reported issues with his tiles to NHBC in 2019. His claim reported to NHBC 
at the time said the tiles were debonding in multiple rooms. As this was reported 
within years three to ten of the ten-year policy, this was considered under section 
three of the cover. This says:
We will pay you the full Cost, if it is more than £1,200 Indexed, of putting right any 
physical damage to your home which is caused by a Defect in respect of any of the 
following parts of your house, bungalow, maisonette or flat, or its garage or other 
permanent outbuildings:
There is then a list of insured areas of the property and of relevance here in particular 
is load-bearing parts of the floors. So, the policy covers damage caused by a Defect 
to those listed areas, and Defect is defined as:
Defect
The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone 
employed by or acting for the Builder. Failure to follow the guidance supporting an 
NHBC Requirement does not amount to a Defect if the performance required by the 
NHBC requirement is achieved by other means.
And if its damage caused by a Defect in one of the covered areas, the claim also 
needs to meet the minimum claim value (MCV) of £1,200 indexed, which at the time 
of Mr S claim was £1,578. If all the requirements are met, a claim would then be 
valid under the policy.
NHBC first inspected the tiles in October 2019. The conclusions at the time were that 
there were minor grout cracking issues, which were cosmetic, and not covered under 
section three of the policy. There was no movement in the tiles reported at that time. 
And the stairs were said to be suffering with shrinking of the timber construction, 
which isnt covered. Consequently, the claim was declined.Mr S didnt agree with the content of the report completed, or the level of 
investigation that was carried out. He said that the photographs taken and included 
within the report werent representative of the worst areas or areas of movement hed 
identified. And he was also unhappy with some of the comments made by NHBCs 
agent. So, he complained to NHBC.
NHBC responded to Mr S complaint in May 2020. They apologised for the comments 
made by their representative. And outlined that following the submission of additional 
photographs by Mr S, and a further inspection, they had said that debonding of the 
tiles could constitute a valid claim in principle under section three. But they also said 
the claims team had told Mr S that the cost to repair would fall below the MCV  so in 
any event Mr S still didnt have a valid claim. But NHBC also said that as Mr S 
remained dissatisfied, they would carry out a further inspection in which they said the 
claim would be looked at again.
The inspection went ahead in October 2020 following some delays (which were 
outside NHBCs control). But during this visit, NHBC only inspected the conservatory 
floor tiles, rather than all areas that theyd previously agreed would be looked at. The 
conservatory tiles claim was then declined on the basis there was no Defect or 
damage and the cost didnt exceed the MCV. But that decision was overturned 
following internal review. NHBC then issued a further complaint response to Mr S in 
January 2021. NHBC accepted the conservatory tiles were covered under section 
three and Mr S had a valid claim for those. They offered a cash settlement of 
£2,918.64 for repairs. NHBC also offered £300 compensation for their claim handling.
A further inspection was carried out in May 2021 for the tiles not commented on in 
the October 2020 inspection. This resulted in NHBC accepting tiles in another room  
an ensuite - as valid under section three and they offered an additional cash 
settlement of £1,453.23 for this room. But this settlement didnt include every room 
NHBC had inspected at that time. Or the first floor, which was reportedly suffering 
other issues.
NHBC issued a further complaint response in July 2021. In this they recognised they 
hadnt looked at all the claimed elements reported, which included the first floor. They 
offered £450 compensation (they also talked about next steps for the MVHR issue 
which Ive referred to above) and said theyd arrange a further inspection for the first 
floor missed at the visit. Ive commented further on this point specifically below, in the 
section titled First floor.
Having looked at what happened, its clear that Mr S first reported tiles in multiple 
rooms were debonding in 2019. NHBC first declined the tiles claim as not covered 
under section three. Following a complaint, NHBC said that a claim for this damage 
would be valid in principle, but for the MCV. They said the tiles could be reused, and 
this was the reason the costs would be minimal and fall below the MCV. However, 
there hasnt been any costings provided from that time to show that was the case.
But in any event, following the further inspections after Mr S raised complaints, the 
schedule of works indicates the tiles couldnt be reused and the flooring would need 
relaying with new tiles  which resulted in the MCV actually being exceeded, and the 
earlier claim decision being overturned. So, it does appear that the MCV wasnt fairly 
applied in the earlier claim stages.Unfairly applying the MCV, not investigating all areas of reported issues, and 
subsequently having to carry out several further inspections has avoidably prolonged 
the claim. And Mr S has needed to dispute and raise concerns at each stage in order 
to move things forward  and when he did, it then resulted in NHBC revisiting matters 
and the claims decisions partly being overturned. So, I can see why Mr S has been 
unhappy with the handling of his claim.
Mr S has asked for all the tiles in his home to be replaced. But the policy, under 
section three, provides cover for damage caused by a Defect. Either a Defect or 
damage on their own isnt enough for a valid claim under section three - it needs to 
be both  and meet the other claim requirements. So, I dont think in principle NHBC 
has acted unfairly in not agreeing to cover every area if it doesnt meet the claim 
criteria.
However, NHBC accepted both the conservatory and an en-suite  following several
inspections  were suffering from movement and this they consider is damage 
caused by a Defect. This is why they ultimately then offered a cash settlement for 
these rooms as valid claims (at separate points). But NHBC also concluded the main 
bathroom was suffering from the same problem during the May 2021 visit, yet they 
didnt include it in the claim settlement offer. Whilst I cant say that NHBC has acted 
unreasonably by not dealing with all the rooms where there isnt damage caused by a 
Defect, it does seem that NHBC has already identified that the main bathroom meets 
the criteria theyve used to accept other rooms. 
So, Im minded to agree with our investigators view (which NHBC also accepted 
following his assessment) that they should also include the claim for the main 
bathroom tiles, in addition to the en-suite and conservatory. He said 8% simple 
interest should be added to all three tile claim settlements from 7 October 2020 to the 
current time. Ill comment on interest separately below.
For the reasons outlined above, in relation to the MVHR system, Im minded to 
decide that NHBC should pay a further £100 compensation. In addition to this, I also 
think NHBC should pay a further £200 in relation to the tile part of the claim and 
complaint, for the additional distress and inconvenience Mr S has been caused by 
NHBCs claim handling and decisions in relation to this.
Interest on the tile settlements
Our investigator said that NHBC should pay 8% simple interest to the entire claim 
settlement and he said this should apply to all rooms from 7 October 2020 to the 
point when all three are cash settled together. He said 7 October 2020 should be the 
date used on the basis this is when the reinspection took place and, in his view, this 
is when NHBC shouldve accepted all the tile claims for the three rooms.
NHBC disagreed with this part of the investigators assessment. They didnt think 
they should be paying 8% interest on all of the settlement, or from 7 October 2020 to 
the present time.
Im minded to reach a slightly different outcome in relation to whether 8% interest 
should apply, and to which parts of the settlement - and the period. Ill explain why.The conservatory tiles
The original report didnt conclude any tile movement in 2019, and this was used in 
part to decline the claim. However, this was overturned when movement was actually 
confirmed in the conservatory in October 2020 following a further detailed inspection. 
So, I cant conclude with certainty that movement and therefore a valid claim was 
definitely present in October 2019 or that it shouldve been accepted at that time.
However, at the October 2020 inspection, this was determined with certainty  in the
conservatory alone. But as I said, only the conservatory was inspected at this time, 
despite NHBC agreeing they would inspect the other reported areas too.
Therefore, the other rooms shouldve all been inspected at the same time, rather 
than much later at different reinspection visits after complaints were raised by Mr S. If 
they had all been inspected at the visit in October 2020 as previously agreed, on 
balance, the conclusions to accept those parts of the claim shouldve also been 
reached around the same time by NHBC  resulting in a settlement offer for all three 
rooms.
But the conservatory claim was declined at first too. And this wasnt overturned until 
internal discussion and review. And the settlement offer of £2,918.64 for that was 
then made to Mr S on 11 January 2021.
Whilst I appreciate Mr S was unhappy overall with NHBC, they still made a 
settlement offer for the conservatory at that time. I note that Mr S didnt feel he could 
accept the offer, but he couldve accepted this in the interim whilst disputing the 
remainder of the rooms and settlement. So, unlike our investigator, Im not minded to 
conclude it would be fair and reasonable for NHBC to pay 8% simple interest on this 
room from 7 October 2020 right up to the present date.
Having said that though, as I mentioned, the conservatory tiles claim was declined at 
first in October 2020, before being overturned during an internal review. So, if the 
decision to accept the claim had been made at the time, rather than needing to be 
overturned internally, then the settlement could and should have been offered 
sooner. Therefore, I do still think 8% simple interest is appropriate for this part of the 
settlement that was delayed.
The period Im minded to say this should be from is the October 2020 inspection, 
which was actually 5 October 2020, rather than 7 October 2020 as said by our 
investigator. But Im minded to conclude it would be fair and reasonable for the 8% 
simple interest to only be applied from this point, to when the (delayed) settlement 
offer was made to Mr S on 11 January 2021.
The en-suite tiles
NHBC shouldve reinspected the en-suite (and other tiled areas reported) at that 
inspection on 5 October 2020. But they only did so for the conservatory. It wasnt 
until May 2021 that they then reinspected the remainder of the tiles. They then 
offered a cash settlement of £1,465.23 for the en-suite on 14 June 2021.The settlement shouldve been offered much sooner than it was as the results 
determined in May 2021 shouldve been determined at that October 2020 inspection. 
And like the conservatory, the decision should have been made then (rather than 
requiring a revisit in the case of the en-suite and internal review and being overturned 
for the conservatory). Ultimately settlement was offered for the en-suite but not until 
14 June 2021.
With this in mind, I do think that 8% simple interest should also be applied to the 
delayed ensuite cash settlement. But again, this should only be for the period 5 
October 2020, to when it was actually offered on 14 June 2021. And this is for the 
same reasons as the conservatory, whilst I acknowledge Mr S didnt agree with his 
overall claim outcome or handling, he couldve accepted that room, even if on an 
interim basis, so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct NHBC to pay 8% 
interest from October 2020 up to the present date.
The main bathroom tiles
As Ive outlined above, Im minded to direct NHBC to accept the main bathroom tiles 
part of the claim (which NHBC accepted when our investigator recommended it). As 
with the other two rooms mentioned above, I think this shouldve been accepted at 
the time of the 5 October 2020 inspection, if it had been included with the 
conservatory inspection (and ensuite).
Therefore, if my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, then Im 
minded to direct NHBC to pay 8% simple interest on this cash settlement too. But as 
this hasnt been offered by NHBC at all previously, and is only included in the claim 
as a result of this services involvement and consideration of things, Im minded to 
conclude this would be payable from 5 October 2020 to the date of settlement.
First floor
Our investigator didnt comment on this part of the claim or complaint or reach any 
findings. So, I wanted to let both parties know my thoughts on this, before reaching 
my final decision.
Mr S first reported his first floor was moving and causing significant noise in 2019. 
This was declined when NHBC inspected in October 2019 as they said the floor 
wasnt failing to support a normal load, and there was no damage being caused by a 
Defect.
Following the complaints raised by Mr S, in May 2020 NHBC agreed to reinspect all 
the flooring issues reported and this was to include the upstairs flooring along with 
the tiled flooring in other rooms. However, this wasnt carried out at the same time as 
the conservatory tiles were inspected in October 2020 or when the other tiled areas 
were looked at after.
NHBC had some internal discussion around this and recognised that they should 
have inspected the first floor again in October 2020 along with the tiles, as they 
previously agreed to. NHBC issued their final response in July 2021 and said they 
would now do this. And they also offered £450 compensation for this (along with next 
steps for the ongoing MVHR issues Ive mentioned above).More recently Mr S has said the inspection has now been carried out, and the claim 
decline decision maintained. But I cant see that this new decision has been raised 
with NHBC as a new complaint by Mr S, if he remains unhappy with that decision, or 
that NHBC has given their final response based on those recent new investigations. 
So, the reasons for that claim decision, and NHBCs final position isnt yet known, 
therefore Im not able to consider that here.
Consequently, along with the MVHR next steps Ive mentioned above, if Mr S 
remains unhappy with this part of the claim, he should raise this with NHBC before 
referring back to this service as a separate new complaint, if he remains unhappy 
with their final response.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct NHBC to accept the main 
bathroom tiles claim, pay a further £300 compensation and to add 8% simple interest to the 
different settlements from the dates outlined above.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr S responded and accepted my provisional decision. He queried if the final decision would 
outline the exact amount the 8% simple interest would equate to.
NHBC also responded and accepted my provisional decision. They said they were still 
unsure why 8% simple interest was payable but agreed in any event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the findings reached in my provisional decision. As both 
parties accepted these, and neither party has provided anything which alters these findings, 
my final decision remains the same, and for the same reasons.
To answer Mr S question about how much the 8% simple interest equates to, this will need 
to be calculated by NHBC. This is because itll be calculated for the specific dates Ive 
outlined, and for the main bathroom tiles, this will be until the exact date the settlement is 
paid to Mr S.
NHBC has said they are still unsure why 8% simple interest is payable. Ive directed NHBC 
to pay 8% simple interest on the various cash settlements, as they shouldve accepted the 
claim(s) and paid those cash settlements sooner - but didnt. So, Mr S shouldve received 
the funds at earlier points, which he could then have used towards repairs at the time or at a 
later date (or not at all if he ultimately decided not to go ahead with repairs). I explained in 
my provisional decision why different dates would apply here based on the different claim 
elements.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct National House-Building 
Council to:
Accept the main bathroom tiles claim
Add 8% simple interest* to the conservatory tiles cash settlement from 5 October 
2020 to 11 January 2021
Add 8% simple interest* to the en-suite cash settlement from 5 October 2020 to 14 
June 2021
Add 8% simple interest* to the main bathroom tiles cash settlement from 5 October 
2020 to the date of settlement
Pay Mr S a further £300 compensation
*If National House-Building Council considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman