DRN-3582776
The complaint
Mr J complains that Wise Payments Limited actioned an incorrect transfer request.
What happened
Mr J says he had two pending transfers on his Wise account, both for $43,000 Australian 
Dollars (AUD) to Pound sterling (GBP). He says one of these transfers expired and he had 
not actioned any type of transfer for this and he had stated he had not paid in the money yet 
for this particular transfer to be actioned. 
Mr J says that on the second transfer request, he specifically stated that he had transferred 
the money and the system showed they were waiting for the money. Mr J says that after he 
had deposited the money into his Wise account, instead of this particular transfer being 
actioned, which had a favourable exchange rate, the other transfer, which had no 
guaranteed exchange rate  as it had expired, was actioned, despite Mr J saying he had not 
actioned any money transfer to this particular request. 
Mr J says the favourable, guaranteed exchange rate, which was awaiting money was 
ignored and an inactive transfer request, where he had not clicked that he had transferred 
the money was actioned instead. Mr J said that on both transfer requests, there is an option 
to choose which transfer request has had the money deposited into, therefore it wouldnt 
make any sense to have this option available to customers if it had no effect on where the 
deposited money was going. Mr J made a complaint to Wise. 
Wise did not uphold Mr Js complaint. They said that Mr J had created five transfers for 
$43,000 AUD between 26-29 April 2022. Wise said that the first three transfers had been 
cancelled by Mr J, the fourth transfer was completed by them on 2 May 2022 and the fifth 
transfer was currently active at the time of their response. Wise explained to Mr J that if he 
set up multiple transfers with them, but he only paid for one of them, the deposit would be 
assigned to the oldest active transfer on his account. Wise said that selecting Ive paid will 
just indicate that he has made a payment, but it doesnt change the order of how the system 
links the funds. Wise displayed a weblink which showed an explanation of how funds are 
linked and the creation of multiple transfers.
Mr J brought his complaint to our service. He said he wanted the difference in the exchange 
rate between the transfers (£427.12) to be paid to him into addition to compensation for 
inconvenience. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Js complaint. He said that Wise had 
acted in line with their terms and conditions by applying the deposit to the oldest active 
transfer. Mr J asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the weblink which Wise included in their response to Mr Js complaint. This 
takes you to Wises website and shows that "if you created multiple transfers but only paid 
for one of them, well assign your deposit to the first transfer you created. You can cancel 
any transfer you dont intend to complete and leave just one active, so we know where to 
assign your money to. Wise have shown that Mr J had created five transfers between 26-29 
April. But he had cancelled the first three of these and this is why the deposit he made 
wasnt assigned to the first transfer (or the second or third transfer during this timeframe). 
But as Mr J had not cancelled the fourth transfer, the money had been assigned to this 
transfer, even though the guaranteed rate had expired.
There is a section on Wises website which says what if I miss my guaranteed rate? this 
goes onto say that if your money reaches us after your guaranteed rate lock has expired, 
well use the live rate at the time we receive it. So Im satisfied that this is what Wise did. 
The money reached wise after his guaranteed rate lock had expired, so they used the live 
rate at the time they received it. This is in line with section 13.3 of Mr Js customer 
agreement. As our investigator and Wise have previously communicated this to Mr J, I wont 
repeat this here. 
Ive considered that on this occasion the live rate was less favourable than the guaranteed 
exchange rate Mr J had on his fifth transfer, but as this was the oldest active transfer, Im not 
persuaded that Wise have done anything wrong here, as this is in line with their terms and 
conditions and information which is on their website. If Mr J had cancelled the fourth transfer, 
prior to depositing the money, then Im satisfied it would have been assigned to the fifth 
transfer, which is the one he ultimately wanted it to be assigned to. But as he hadnt, Im 
satisfied that Wise acted in line with how they set out they would. So it follows I wont be 
asking Wise to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman