DRN-3057706
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. didnt provide the insurance cover theyd paid for, and ask that their full 
premiums are refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L purchased an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by Mapfre, in July 
2019. And they later added cruise cover. They travelled abroad in March 2020, and 
unfortunately their trip had to be cut short, due to restrictions coming into force in relation to 
Covid-19 while they were away. 
Mr and Mrs L said they tried to contact their insurers emergency assistance department by 
phone and via the website, but these were unavailable, and they couldnt get in touch. 
After returning home, Mr and Mrs L attempted to make a claim using the insurers online 
form. And this returned a result which said their claim had been declined. Mr and Mrs L 
complained to Mapfre and asked for a full refund of their policy premiums, as they felt no 
cover had been provided. 
The policy terms and conditions say the following about cancellation of the insurance 
contract outside of the 14 day cooling off period. 
If this cover is not suitable for you and you want to cancel your policy, you must 
write within 14 days of buying your policy or the date you receive your policy 
documentation whichever is the latter. 
If you have not travelled or made a claim and you wish to cancel the policy within 14 
days of receiving your policy documentation a full refund will be given. If you cancel 
after 14 days of days of receipt of your policy documents no premium refund will be 
made. 
If you are an annual multi-trip policyholder and you have travelled or made a claim 
before you asked to cancel the policy, [the insurer] may only refund part of the 
premium. 
Mapfre said there was an error with its online claim form, which caused the claim to show as 
declined in error. It accepted this was a mistake, and said the claim was not declined, and 
that it would be assessed when Mr and Mrs L provided necessary information and evidence 
about their claim. 
Mapfre said itd not found any record of Mr and Mrs L being unable to get in touch while they 
were calling and trying to access the website from abroad. But, it acknowledged this would 
have been stressful for them. It apologised for a delay in requesting the information it 
needed to assess the curtailment claim. And offered £150 in compensation for the delays 
and errors. Mapfre also said it was waiting to receive further information from Mr and Mrs L, 
in order to assess their curtailment claim. 
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to this service. They said they were dissatisfied with 
Mapfres offer of compensation and expected to receive a full refund of their policy 
premiums. 
Mapfre subsequently said it would pay compensation equivalent to the amount of premium 
refund which would have been due, had Mr and Mrs L asked to cancel their policy when they 
first made their curtailment claim. And it said it would refund the cruise extension cover, as 
Mr and Mrs Ls cruise planned for later in 2020 was cancelled. It extended its compensation 
offer to £275 in total, and paid this to Mr and Mrs L.
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said they thought Mapfre had done 
enough to put things right. Mapfre didnt make any further comments. However Mr and Mrs L 
disagreed with the investigators view. They said the cover they paid for hadnt been 
provided, as when they needed assistance abroad, they were unable to get in touch with 
Mapfre. And their claim was declined. So they said they thought their policy had been mis-
sold. 
As Mr and Mrs L didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs L have said they believe their cover was mis-sold. And as the investigator 
said, Mapfre didnt sell the policy, so Mr and Mrs L would need to raise that complaint 
directly with the company who did. And I wont be commenting further on any complaint of 
mis-selling in this decision. 
The investigator identified and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. And having 
reviewed what happened here, I think the compensation Mapfre has already paid to Mr and 
Mrs L is fair in the circumstances, and I dont think it needs to do anything more. I say this for 
the following reasons. 
Mr and Mrs L took out an annual trip policy which ran from July 2019 until July 2020. 
And, unlike a single trip policy, they didnt have to tell the insurer which trips they would 
be taking or when. The insurer is effectively on risk for the entire policy year, in relation 
to any trips within the scope of the cover. As well as their holiday in March 2020, Mr and 
Mrs L had planned to go on a cruise, however this was cancelled due to Covid-19. So 
since the start of the policy, Mapfre was bearing the risk of cancellation due to an event 
insured by the policy  for example illness or injury - relating to Mr and Mrs Ls booked 
trips. And the risk presented by any of the insured perils while they were abroad in March 
2020. So, for me to say Mapfre should refund the full premiums as Mr and Mrs L have 
asked, wouldnt be fair or reasonable. 
Mapfre accepted there was an error on its website which caused Mr and Mrs Ls 
curtailment claim to initially show as declined. It informed them that this was an error, 
and asked them to provide information about the claim so it could be assessed. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ls claim for curtailment of their March 2020 holiday hasnt been 
paid. However, the evidence Ive seen satisfies me that this is because Mapfre hasnt received the information it needs to assess it. Mapfre asked Mr and Mrs L to provide 
information to support their claim, however this was not returned. And I note Mr and Mrs 
L have since said the relevant documents relating to the claim no longer exist. Its 
standard practice for an insurer to request relevant information and evidence of a claim. 
And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mapfre to assess or pay a curtailment claim, 
without these details. 
Mapfre evidenced it paid a total of £275 in compensation due to the difficulties and 
delays Mr and Mrs L experienced. This included an equivalent to the premium refund 
which would have been due had they cancelled their policy when they made their claim. 
Im satisfied this fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused and I dont think 
Mapfre needs to pay any more. This is because I dont think the issues had a significant 
impact on Mr and Mrs L. 
They were advised their claim was not declined on the same day as the website error  
via a webchat conversation with Mapfre. And the delay in Mapfre contacting Mr and Mrs 
L again to request details of their claim, doesnt seem to have caused any further 
negative impact or delay, as Mr and Mrs L have not yet provided the information 
requested. 
In terms of the issues Mr and Mrs L experienced when trying to contact Mapfre while 
abroad, Mapfre has said its found no record of the attempted contact. I think its most 
likely there would have been delays and difficulties making contact with Mapfre on the 
dates in question, due to this being at the very start of the travel disruption related to 
Covid-19, and I appreciate that would have been distressing for Mr and Mrs L. But its 
something Im satisfied was beyond Mapfres control, due to the unexpected and 
unprecedented nature of the events at that time. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt ask for their policy to be cancelled or the premiums refunded, until 
their policy year had almost ended, so I would have expected Mapfre to issue a refund 
equivalent to the time remaining on the policy, and the un-used cruise cover extension. 
However Mapfre paid compensation equivalent to a refund of the premiums from the 
point at which Mr and Mrs L first raised their claim online, and the full cost of cruise 
extension cover. And I think that shows Mapfre has acted fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. Im 
aware Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. has paid 
Mr and Mrs L £275 in compensation. And I conclude this is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman