DRN-3920279
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their claim for storm 
damage to their roof. 
Mr and Mrs S had buildings insurance in joint names and a loss assessor, Mr K, brought the 
complaint on their behalf. For ease of reading, Ill refer just to Mr S.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the 
detail here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there was a storm, or that the type of damage suffered can be typical 
of that caused by a storm. So, Ive looked at the evidence to determine whether AXA fairly 
declined the claim for the reason it gave - that the storm was not the main cause of the 
damage.
AXA provided a copy of its surveyors report, including photos, which stated that the roof 
showed signs of deterioration, previous repairs, and it had reached the end of its life.
Mr S provided a copy of his roofers report, including photos, which said the roof decking 
was exposed and saturated in places, the felt had lifted on three sides and pulled away the 
lead flashing, and the roof was beyond repair.
Ive also considered Mr Ss explanation that his roof was wind and rain proof, suggesting it 
hadnt reached the end of its life, and that the appearance of the roof didnt mean it wasnt 
operating effectively.
Having considered the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint for the 
following reasons:
Mr Ss roofer didnt state, categorically, that the roof damage was caused by a storm. 
The report simply describes the roof damage.
Mr Ss roofer described the roof as saturated in places and said the whole roof 
needed to be replaced, indicating a longer-term problem.
AXAs report shows the areas of new repairs, likely those carried out by Mr Ss 
roofer. But it also shows other older areas of damage. So, I cant fairly say the repairs 
referred to were just those completed recently.
The areas showing older damage and/or repairs, such as the cracked and de-bonded 
bitumen, have vegetation growth and the areas of cracking look dirty and worn. This 
suggests that the damage was, more likely than not, present before the storm.
The evidence persuades me that while the felt roof may have lifted during the storm, 
but for the existing damage, its unlikely it wouldve done so. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably say the storm caused the damage.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that AXA declined Mr Ss claim fairly and in line with the 
policy for the reasons it gave.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman