DRN-2887655
The complaint
Miss H complains about the way that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited has 
managed an outstanding debt in her name.
Miss H wants Cabot to apologise and pay compensation. 
What happened
In 2019, Cabot bought an outstanding debt in the name of Miss H. Cabot contacted Miss H 
to try and arrange repayment of the debt.
Over time, Miss H made several payments but there were also periods when payments 
stopped. 
Miss H complained to Cabot after it wrote to her in October 2020. She was unhappy with the 
tone of Cabots letter which was headed with the words: Over 900,000 customers pay 
regularly and on time, you are not one of them. 
Miss H pointed out that as Cabot had used the wrong email address for her, she was 
concerned about possible data protection breaches. This also meant that Miss H couldnt 
complete the registration process to gain access to the online account portal.
When this service first considered Miss Hs concerns, the investigator didnt recommend 
upholding her complaint. Miss H was unhappy with the investigators recommendation.
After the first investigator left this service, a new investigator reconsidered Miss Hs 
complaint. He thought it should be upheld and asked Cabot to pay £50 compensation.
Cabot disagrees with the decision to issue a second opinion and doesnt agree with the 
proposed outcome. Miss H doesnt consider £50 adequately reflects the level of distress that 
shes suffered trying to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint, but I want to reassure Miss H and Cabot that 
Ive considered everything theyve said.
To respond first to Cabots objection to the investigator issuing a fresh view. I can see that 
after the original investigator sent his view, Miss H raised several objections. The 
investigator requested further information but then left this service. As the newly assigned 
investigator had the benefit of considering the additional evidence, he reached a different 
view. Im satisfied that this was reasonable in the circumstances.
My understanding is that Miss H wouldve preferred to pay Cabot using the online portal but 
was prevented from doing so because her email address was wrong. Having tried to resolve 
the situation for several months, Miss H therefore found Cabots letter of 21 October 2020 
very insulting. 
Cabot accepts that it made a mistake in November 2019 when it failed to correctly update 
Miss Hs email address. Cabot says Miss H subsequently confirmed during calls that the 
email address it held was correct but hasnt been able to give us further evidence of this. 
The key thing that I need to consider is whether Cabot should compensate Miss H for its 
failing and if so, whether £50 is adequate.
I agree with the investigator that its reasonable to require Cabot to pay something in 
recognition of the upset caused to Miss H. But I dont require Cabot to pay more than the 
suggested £50. I will try and explain why.
I dont have enough evidence to conclude that Miss H repeatedly raised her concerns about 
the online access before October 2020. Although Miss H told Cabot in October 2020 that 
she wanted to set up a repayment plan online, I cant any see any record that she 
complained about not being able to use the online system before this date. I can see 
evidence that Cabot emailed Miss H with details of the online system as early as January 
2020 and then in February 2020. It seems possible that Miss Hs contact with Cabot 
prompted the emails about the online access, but I cant be certain of this.
Once Miss H successfully signed up for the online portal in October 2020, she made regular 
use of the service. If Cabots emails detailing how to set up online access had arrived when 
they shouldve done in early 2020, it seems likely Miss H wouldve set up her account much 
sooner. And I think having the option to make online payments wouldve been much more 
convenient for Miss H. However, although Miss H didnt have access to the portal, she was 
able to use alternative ways to pay. So, I cant find that the lack of online access was the 
only reason why Miss H missed some payments.
I appreciate that Miss H didnt like the tone of Cabots letter of October 2020. But Cabot had 
been trying to get Miss Hs payment schedule back on track for some time. Although Miss H 
told the investigator that shed been through a period of bereavement before receiving the 
letter, I cant see that Cabot was aware of this. In the circumstances, I dont find the tone of 
the letter unreasonable or threatening in nature.
The second investigator has already explained to Miss H that this service cant decide 
whether there has been a data breach  that would be up to the regulator, the Information 
Commissioners Office to consider. But I dont have evidence to suggest that Miss Hs 
personal information was shared with a third party due to Cabot using the wrong email 
address. The email address Cabot used doesnt appear to be active. And the information 
contained in its emails was generic rather than personal. So, I dont consider that an 
additional amount of compensation is justified.
Im satisfied that Cabot has already apologised to Miss H for any distress she may have felt. 
For all the reasons outlined above, I consider that £50 is a fair award to reflect the 
inconvenience sustained by Miss H when she couldnt access the online payment system for 
an extended period.
Putting things right
Cabot Credit Management Group Limited should pay Miss H £50. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Cabot 
Credit Management Group Limited to pay the compensation outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman