DRN-1516533
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) opened a savings 
account and transferred £28,000 into it from their current account. They say this was done 
without their permission.
What happened
On 4 November 2019, Mr S spoke to an adviser from his local branch on the telephone. He 
told us that, during this conversation, the adviser said that he had a lot of money in his 
current account, and it would be safer in a savings account. Mr S said he and Mrs S would 
go into the branch to discuss their options. 
On 5 November 2019, when using an ATM, they saw that £28,000 had disappeared from 
their account. Mr S called Barclays that day and explained that £28,000 had disappeared 
from his account. He was told thered been a transfer into his savings account. He told the 
adviser he didn't have a savings account and hadn't asked for one to be opened. This meant 
he had no details of it or how to access his money. And the money had been moved into the 
savings account without his permission.
Barclays said it could only transfer £5,000 back to the current account during the call due to 
security measures. Unhappy with this, Mr S raised his dissatisfaction with Barclays. The 
money was transferred back into Mr and Mrs Ss current account on 5 November 2019 and 
the savings account was closed. 
Barclays didn't think it had made a mistake in terms of opening the current account and 
transferring the funds. But it acknowledged it had provided a delayed response to Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint, so it offered £100. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She thought that, based on the overall situation, 
Barclays offer was fair, particularly given how quickly the issue was rectified. But Mr and 
Mrs S disagreed. They said the situation had been extremely stressful and it was only 
rectified quickly because of their own reaction to what had happened. Mr and Mrs S also 
added that the money was sent to the wrong account and was being used by that account 
holder. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Barclays to do anything beyond paying the £100 its offered. Ill explain why. 
I requested copies of the calls between Mr and Mrs S and Barclays. While it has given me 
some of the calls, its been unable to provide me with the call which led to the savings 
account being set up. So, I cant safely say what happened during this call. But, having 
listened to the call between Mr S and Barclays on 5 November 2019, its clear he was surprised the account was opened. So I think it likely there was a misunderstanding 
somewhere during the call on 4 November 2019  but I dont have enough information to 
conclude either way whether it was clear that the end result of this call was that a savings 
account was going to be opened up.  
So from what Ive seen, I cant safely say that Barclays has done something wrong here. 
But, I recognise that what happened did cause Mr and Mrs S stress. Given the lack of 
information I have around the relevant call, Ive thought about the actions of Barclays when it 
found that Mr and Mrs S didn't want the account. It wouldve been frustrating to find out 
Barclays could only transfer £5,000 back, particularly when £28,000 was transferred to the 
savings account in one go. But when Mr S went into branch, it transferred the full amount 
back into their current account and closed the savings account. So I think it did try to put Mr 
and Mrs S back into the position they were in before the misunderstanding as quickly as 
possible. 
As Ive said above, I cant safely say that Barclays made a mistake in setting up the account 
and making the transfer. But its important to note that, even if it had made a mistake, I 
havent seen evidence of a financial loss as a result of this. That said, I acknowledge that 
finding such a large sum missing from an account, even temporarily, wouldve been troubling 
and upsetting. Mr S has mentioned in his submissions to us that the money was transferred 
to someone else entirely and was being used, but I havent seen evidence of this, and 
Barclays said this didn't happen. In summary, the money wasn't lost or at risk, and it was 
returned to the original account the following day.
Given everything that happened, Im satisfied the £100 offered is a fair reflection of what 
happened here, so I wont be asking Barclays to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I wont be asking Barclays Bank UK PLC to offer any more 
than the £100 it has already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman