DRN-3116605
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has charged him monthly fees on his 
fee-paying Gold account since 2015. Mr F says that hed negotiated a deal with Lloyds when 
he opened the account, whereby hed be able to have the Gold account for free.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and ultimately didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. Mr F disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it might also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, 
as is the case here, I have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened  based on 
everything that is available.
Mr F says that when he took out the Gold account, hed negotiated a deal with the bank 
manager so that he could get the Gold account for free. Conversely Lloyds says that no such 
deal has existed for Mr F and that Mr F has always been required to pay the monthly 
account fee for the Gold account. It says the only reason why Mr F didnt pay the account 
fee until 2015 was because hed kept the balance above £1,000 (this amount later increased 
to £1,500 in May 2001 and then £2,000 from May 2004). Lloyds says that this fee-waiver 
was a standard feature available on all Gold accounts.
Having considered all of the evidence, Ive not seen enough to be able to say that its more 
likely than not that Lloyds did agree that Mr F could have the Gold account for free. 
I say this as firstly, apart from Mr Fs testimony, there is no other evidence to show, or even 
suggest that a deal was agreed. Furthermore, the account was sold many years ago and I 
am mindful that memories can fade and change over time. For example, I think its likely that 
when discussing the account with Lloyds, the £1,000 fee-waiver wouldve been mentioned. 
So its possible that Mr F recalls the fee-waiver being mentioned during the sale and he now 
recalls that as being told he could have it for free. 
Additionally, Im also mindful that Mr F did keep enough money in the account so that he 
qualified for the fee-waiver (that came with the account as standard) for many years. So I 
cant rule out the possibility that overtime Mr F thought his Gold account was free, because 
hed not paid a fee for it so long.
Finally, when Lloyds started applying the account fee in 2015, this was not because Lloyds 
had made any particular changes to the account - for example because it had decided to 
withdraw a pre-agreed fee-waiver. Instead, the account fees only started being applied 
because the balance had dropped below the standard fee-waiver balance of £2,000. This 
suggests that an outright fee-waiver had never existed on the account.
Therefore, based on the information that I have seen, Im unable to say that its more likely 
than not that Lloyds did agree Mr F could have the Gold account for free. As such, in the 
circumstances, I dont think itd be appropriate to require Lloyds to refund the Gold account 
fees that have been applied to the account since 2015.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr F, but I hope he understands the reasons 
why I cant find in his favour on this occasion.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman