DRN-2093827
The complaint
Ms W says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about two loans that Satsuma provided to Ms W - heres a table setting out 
details: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest* 
Repayment
104/10/2016 23/01/2018 26 Weeks £500.00 £184.15
206/12/2016 27/05/2020 52 Weeks £500.00 £279.80*
*this shows the most that Ms W paid in any one month when the loans overlapped
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint and thought the loans werent unfairly 
provided. 
Ms W disagreed. 
She mainly says that Satsuma didnt check her finances properly and she wasnt earning the 
amount that Satsuma said she was - so the loans it provided were based on an incorrect 
income figure.
Ms W has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ws complaint. 
Before lending to Ms W, Satsuma asked Ms W for information about her financial situation, 
such as her monthly income and her outgoings, and it carried out credit checks. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about whether it was fair for Satsuma to lend to 
Ms W.
loan 1
Satsuma says it asked Ms W about her income and relied on the figures she provided when 
checking if she could afford the cost of the loan she was applying for. Satsuma also asked 
Ms W about the things she spent money on each month and took into account that she 
would need to pay for the loan on top of her existing commitments. And Satsuma allowed for 
the fact that Ms W would need to have money left over to cover possible extra expenses she 
might have to meet whilst repaying the loan.
Satsuma said it checked (using a credit bureau service) that Ms W received more than 
enough income into her bank account to be able to afford the loan. And it only lent to Ms W 
when it was satisfied that her income was sufficient to cover the cost of the loan, plus all of 
her existing commitments, and still leave her with some money remaining to cover additional 
expenses that might crop up while she was paying this loan.
When Ms W took out her first loan I think Satsuma was entitled to rely on the information 
Ms W provided. This suggested that she was well able to afford this borrowing. Satsuma 
recorded a figure for her monthly income that was around £3,900 and even allowing for all 
the regular expenses Ms W had mentioned, this still left her an ample amount to spend on 
the loan repayments shed signed up to make. 
To give Ms W a safety margin in terms of her borrowing, Satsuma assumed she could have 
less disposable income than shed said. But even on the adjusted figures that Satsuma 
worked on, the repayments on loan 1 shouldve been comfortably affordable for her.   
As this was the first loan that Ms W had successfully applied for from Satsuma, she didnt 
have any track record with the lender that mightve alerted Satsuma to any underlying 
money problems. Ive taken carefully into account that Ms W feels strongly that Satsuma 
didnt do enough when checking her finances. But I cant see that there was anything in the 
information she provided, or the information Satsuma had gathered about her financial 
situation, which meant that Satsuma shouldve taken steps to enquire further into her 
finances or do more to check the information Ms W had declared. 
So I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Two months or so after starting loan 1, and whilst she still expected to be paying that loan for 
quite some time, Ms W applied for her second loan. This was for the same amount again as 
shed borrowed when she took out loan 1. And this time she asked for twice as long to pay 
the loan back  possibly to keep down the cost of each of the repayments she had to make 
on a weekly/monthly basis. 
Satsuma expected Ms W would be paying for this loan over the course of a year or so. 
Given all of these things, I think this shouldve prompted Satsuma to think carefully about 
whether it had a good enough understanding of Ms Ws financial circumstances so it could make a fair lending decision. And in these circumstances, I think it shouldve gone further in 
the checks it did before agreeing to lend loan 2. 
But Ive seen nothing, and havent been provided with any information, to suggest that 
further checks to verify what Ms W was saying wouldve shown that loan 2 wasnt 
sustainably affordable for Ms W. 
I can also see that, on top of the amount Ms W declared for her outgoing monthly financial 
commitments, and what she was paying for other loans, Satsuma boosted these figures by 
an amount that doesnt seem unreasonable to me to cover all her other credit commitments. 
And Satsuma took this into account when looking at affordability overall.  
Taking all this into account, it looks to me like the monthly repayments Ms W had to make on 
loan 2 shouldve still been affordable for her  even on top of paying loan 1.  
Having had the benefit of seeing some bank statements Ms W has sent us, I think its fair to 
say that I havent seen anything which shows Satsuma should have decided not to agree 
this loan, had it seen all this information. 
And I cant see that Ms W gave Satsuma any indication that her finances were causing her 
serious money problems during her application for loan 2.  
Im very sorry that Ms W found repaying the loans difficult. And I accept that in reality her 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the 
other information Satsuma obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say that Ms W lost out as a result of 
something that Satsuma did wrong. And I dont think thats the case. I say this because even 
if Satsuma had done proportionate checks, I havent seen enough to show that it shouldve 
realised that loan 2 was likely to be unsustainable for her.
So overall, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint about loan 2. 
I am sorry to disappoint Ms W. But I hope my explanations help explain why Ive reached my 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman