DRN-1316608
 
The complaint
Mr A complains about how much hes paid TSB Bank plc for lending since 2014. He said 
these costs have contributed to his financial difficulties, and he wanted TSB to help him by 
paying this money back.
What happened
Mr A wanted TSB to pay back the money hed been charged since June 2014 for having an 
overdraft. He said his overdraft was £1,500, and hed been charged more than that for the 
lending in this time. He said his medical costs had increased, he was struggling to make loan 
and credit card payments, he regularly needed to increase his credit limit, and he was 
continually living off credit. Mr A said that TSB was supposed to help him, but it hadnt 
offered anything sympathetic and caring. 
TSB said it hadnt done anything wrong. The charges it had applied were in line with the 
terms Mr A had agreed to when he opened the account. And TSB said that each time Mr A 
had incurred a charge, it had written to him to notify him of this. Each of those letters invited 
Mr A to contact TSB if he was experiencing difficulties. TSB said hed never done that before 
this complaint. 
TSB also said that Mr A had been charged a total of £165 for returned payments or the use 
of an unplanned overdraft in all the time hed held the account. It didnt think this was the 
cause of Mr As financial difficulties. It said it had offered him help with his financial 
difficulties now, but he wasnt willing to discuss those. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that the fees had been 
applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And a court case from 2009 
meant he cant decide that those fees were unfair or too high. 
Our investigator said TSB is expected to treat Mr A positively and sympathetically if it 
becomes aware that hes in financial difficulties. But our investigator didnt think TSB knew 
about that until July 2019. And then it did offer Mr A support. Our investigator clarified that 
TSB doesnt have to waive or refund charges once someones in financial difficulties. 
Our investigator had reviewed the call that Mr A made to TSB to make his complaint, and he 
didnt think TSB had treated Mr A unfairly. He said he wouldnt ask TSB to do anything else. 
Mr A said he was disappointed by our decision. He said his health conditions were mounting 
up, and it would help to be treated sympathetically by his bank. He said TSB hadnt actually 
referred to its Customer Support Unit on the phone to him, it had only done that in a letter he 
hadnt seen. And he said that TSBs phone call had been uncaring, so he didnt know if the 
Customer Support Unit would be the same. Our investigator replied that TSB didnt have to waive Mr As charges, but it could help him 
look at his options for repaying his overdraft if he contacted the Customer Support Unit. He 
said that TSB had sent its letter to Mr A to the right address.
Mr A didnt think TSB would actually help him. He wanted his complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has made ongoing use of his overdraft since the second half of 2014. But the account 
has mainly remained within the overdraft limit during this time. So I dont think that the way 
Mr As account has been run, ought to have made TSB think that he was having financial 
difficulties. And I note that he didnt tell TSB about his financial difficulties until mid-2019.
Mr A wants TSB to refund the money hes paid for lending to date. TSB has refused. Its 
pointed out that its allowed to apply charges for lending, and that the only charges it has 
applied are those set out in Mr As terms and conditions. Ive looked at Mr As account, and 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that TSB has charged Mr A otherwise than in line with the 
terms of his account. 
TSB has also mentioned a court case in 2009, which it says means that its fees cant be 
challenged as unfair. As our investigator mentioned, this limits what our service can do in 
cases like this. We have to have regard to the relevant law, so I cant reach a view which 
contradicts what is set out in this case.
Mr A says he wants TSB to take a positive and sympathetic approach to his debt. Our 
service also expects banks to do that when someones having financial difficulties. But, as 
our investigator has explained, that doesnt mean that we would expect TSB to refund all the 
charges Mr A has paid for having his overdraft, or to stop charging him for his lending now. It 
may be able to help him by looking at his overall income and expenditure, but he would need 
to contact it to discuss that.  
I'm sorry to hear about Mr A's health conditions. He's told us this is a drain on his finances, 
so I know that Mr A would like TSB to do more. But I think its done all that our service would 
expect it to in these circumstances, to support him. Im sorry to have to tell Mr A that I dont 
think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman