DRN-3565392
The complaint
Mr N complains about the poor service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclays Wealth Management (Barclays).
What happened
Mr N had an advisory share dealing account with Barclays since around 2003. In October 
2020 Barclays wrote to him to explain that it could no longer offer him the advisory service, 
following the UKs exit from the European Union. It said he could give instructions to transfer 
to a new provider, or to sell his holdings; or, if it didnt hear back from Mr N by 4 December 
2020, his account would be moved to a restricted dealing and custody service.
Mr N sought some more information from Barclays about the dealing and custody service; 
he also wanted information about how much hed invested and added over the years so that 
he could work out any tax liability if he decided to sell his holdings. Barclays gave him some 
information about the dealing and custody service. Mr N says he wrote to Barclays on 
2 November asking it to confirm the information hed been told in writing. He didnt receive a 
reply and on 2 December, Barclays contacted him to say it would be withdrawing its 
services. Mr N says he panicked on receiving this letter and sold his shares. He wrote to 
Barclays on 2 December expressing his dissatisfaction and asking again for the information 
about the amount hed invested so he could work out his tax liability.
Mr N says he didnt receive a reply to either of his letters and that, over the next four months, 
he contacted Barclays several times by phone and email but couldnt get the information he 
needed.
Barclays said Mr N wasnt forced to sell his shares  the options had been set out in its 
December 2020 letter. It said it hadnt received either of Mr Ns letters. And it said it hadnt 
acted unreasonably in providing Mr N with a record of his transactions when hed asked for 
information about his investment. But it apologised for the poor service Mr N had received. It 
said it provided him with incorrect information in its letter dated 12 January 2021, and that it 
should have been able to help him sooner than it did when he requested information. It 
offered to pay him £250 compensation for the poor service hed received and £100 for the 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Our investigator concluded the banks offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr N didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Barclays failed to provide him with the information hed requested so that he could 
consider the tax implications of selling his investments. The information was finally 
provided in writing on 21 April 2021.
Barclays provided him with the wrong information, over the phone and in a letter.
Barclays has failed to explain why it wasnt able to support him and why it couldnt 
answer his basic questions.
He feels compensation of £1,000 reflects the distress and upset hes been caused and 
seems to be in line with the awards set out on this Services website.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find Barclays should have reasonably provided Mr N with a better service. It has apologised 
for giving him wrong information and for taking so long to provide him with the information 
hed reasonably asked for. I agree with Mr N that Barclays should have provided this 
information in enough time for him to make a decision about what to do about the 
investments in his account before the 4 December deadline. It didnt provide this information 
until April 2021. Theres no clear reason for Barclays failing here. It seems the members of 
staff who were tasked with responding to Mr N werent able to properly help or support him. 
Im satisfied that Barclays accepts this, has apologised and, eventually, directed Mr N to an 
individual who was able to help him. It also accepts it should have done this much sooner. 
I dont find Mr N has made a financial loss as a result of the poor service he received. I 
appreciate what he says about the panicked sale of his investments. But I cant conclude 
with certainty that he would have done anything different if Barclays had provided a better 
service  in other words, its likely he would have sold his investments if Barclays had 
provided him with the information hed requested in time. And Mr N hasnt made us aware of 
any losses he thinks have been caused by Barclays.
I do find that Barclays poor service caused Mr N distress and inconvenience for which he 
should be compensated. He had to contact Barclays by phone, email, and letter on several 
occasions over a period of around four to five months. And he also had to contact his tax 
adviser more times than he would have needed to if the information had been supplied by 
Barclays in a timely manner. Ive considered this very carefully. 
I agree Mr N had to contact Barclays more times than should have been necessary to get 
the information he needed. He says Barclays didnt reply to his letters dated 2 November 
and 2 December 2020. But Barclays doesnt have a record of receiving either letter. I cant 
reasonably hold Barclays responsible for not receiving the letters. Ive listened to the call 
Mr N had with our investigator when he explained the impact of Barclays poor service. And 
I fully understand his frustration, and his feeling that Barclays let him down, on the rare 
occasion hed asked it for help, having held the investment for many years.
But, taking everything into account, I agree with the investigator that £350 compensation is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. I think it fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience Mr N was caused over several months.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclays Wealth Management 
should pay Mr N £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman