DRN-4063806
Complaint
Miss M has complained about the overdraft charges Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin 
Money) applied to her current account. Shes said the charges added were unfair and 
caused her financial hardship.
Background
Miss Ms complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Virgin 
Money had done anything wrong as Miss M hadnt said she was in financial difficulty. So she 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Virgin Money charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Virgin Moneys charging structure per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss M if it applied these interest, fees and charges to 
Miss Ms account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Miss M was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether 
there were instances where Virgin Money didnt treat Miss M fairly and reasonably. 
Its fair to say that Miss M did incur some unplanned or unarranged overdraft fees. And           
Miss M might say that this in itself was an indication he was in difficulty. But the charges on 
Miss Ms account were incurred sporadically and its also fair to say that a proportion of them 
were refunded. 
And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss M expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions going from the account too. Equally the amount being credited to 
Miss Ms account each month didnt indicate that she was struggling either.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Miss M wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. And I know that Miss M has referred to her personal 
circumstances and her difficulties with written correspondence. But I cant see that she ever 
made Virgin Money aware of this. And there isnt anything in Miss Ms transactions (other 
than the fees themselves which for the reasons Ive explained arent on their own sufficient 
here) in themselves which ought to have alerted Virgin Money to potential financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Miss M, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Virgin Money to have proceeded adding the charges that it did 
and hasnt refunded. And I dont think Virgin Money unfairly charged Miss M in 
circumstances where it ought to have realised that she may have been experiencing 
financial difficulty.
As this is the case, I dont think that Virgin Money needs to refund any further interest, fees 
and charges and Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Miss M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman