DRN-1661937
The complaint
Ms J complains that a loan with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, that shes repaid is 
showing as outstanding on her credit file.
What happened
Ms J entered into a loan agreement with Halifax in June 2014 and it lent £1,000 to her. 
There were some issues with the loan and Halifax sold it to a debt collection agency. Ms J 
repaid the outstanding amount of the loan in May 2015. She says that she became aware in 
July 2019 that the loan was showing as outstanding on her credit file. She complained to 
Halifax and it apologised, offered her £50 compensation and said that the loan would be 
marked as settled.
Ms J says that the loan is still showing as outstanding on her credit file so she complained to 
this service. Our investigator said that Halifax had confirmed that its records had been 
updated - and the loan was correctly showing as being closed  and he thought that its 
award of compensation of £50 was a fair resolution.
Ms J has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that the 
loan is still showing as outstanding on her credit file, she was refused a mortgage because 
of that information and £50 isnt a fair resolution for the issues that shes been caused.
Halifax says that the loan is still showing as outstanding in its records due to a system error 
which it is in the process of rectifying and it will then ensure that there is no record of it 
showing on Ms Js credit file. It accepts that shes been caused some inconvenience and 
that an award of compensation is appropriate.
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms J 
and to Halifax on 13 January 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Halifax now accepts that the loan is still showing as outstanding in its records and on 
Ms Js credit file. Its clear that the loan was repaid in May 2015 and should have 
been marked as settled at that time but Halifax says that it cant yet correct the 
information on Ms Js credit file.
I dont consider that to be acceptable. Ms J has repaid the loan and her credit file 
should be corrected to show that the loan was settled. I consider that Halifax should 
ensure that that happens.
These events have clearly caused Ms J significant distress and inconvenience. 
Halifax has offered her £50 compensation but I consider that the distress and 
inconvenience that shes been caused justifies a higher award of compensation. I 
consider that a further £250 compensation would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances. That is in addition to the £50 that it has already offered her so if the 
£50 hasnt been paid I consider that Halifax should also pay that amount to Ms J.
So subject to any further representations by Ms J or Halifax, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Halifax has accepted my provisional decision but Ms J says, in summary, that:
the offer of a further £250 compensation doesnt adequately cover the inconvenience 
and the significant amount of stress that this has caused her - Halifax lied to her and 
said that it was no longer on her credit file and that it wouldnt affect her credit score;
it has affected her credit score and she hasnt been able to get the mortgage that she 
wanted because of the information on her credit file  so shes having to pay more for 
her mortgage each month; and
she wants her credit score amended immediately as its still going to affect her credit 
until its resolved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. 
Ms J entered into the loan agreement in June 2014 but didnt make all of the repayments 
that were due to Halifax so it was entitled to record adverse information about her missed 
payments on her credit file  and that information would have stayed on her credit file for six 
years. She then repaid the loan in May 2015 and it should then have been marked as settled 
on her credit file  but that wouldnt have changed the adverse information about her missed 
payments that was on her credit file. 
That didnt happen but Halifax has now agreed to amend her credit file to show that the loan 
was settled in May 2015. But the adverse information on her credit file is likely to have 
impacted any mortgage application that was made by Ms J  and Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require Halifax to pay any compensation to Ms J 
because she wasnt able to get the mortgage that she wanted. Halifax doesnt calculate 
Ms Js credit score and I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it 
to take any actions, other than as set out below, to amend Ms Js credit score.
I consider that £250 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
that Ms J has been caused (which is in addition to the £50 that it has already offered her)  
and Im not persuaded that a higher award of compensation is justified in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Js complaint and I order Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, to:
1. Ensure that Ms Js credit file is corrected to show that the loan was settled in May 
2015.
2. Pay a further £250 to Ms J to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021. Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman