DRN-3311231
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way he was treated when he called Barclays Bank UK PLC about 
a direct debit payment.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr S called Barclays as a direct debit was due to leave his account and 
he was concerned there wasnt enough money to make the payment. Mr S said his account 
balance was £6 below the amount required to make the payment. Mr S asked what Barclays 
could do to help him.
The first call handler Mr S spoke with looked at his account and said they could recall the 
direct debit. The call handler said Mr S could then contact the business in question. Mr S 
pointed out his balance was only £6 lower than the amount required and wanted Barclays 
help. Voices were raised and the call handler ended the call with Mr S. 
Mr S called back a short time later and spoke with another call handler. During this call, Mr S 
raised the direct debit again and wanted to check if it would be paid. The call handler 
confirmed the payment would be made. 
During the second call, Mr S also said he wanted to complain about the way the first call 
handler had dealt with him and that shed been racist. The call was then transferred for Mr S 
to raise a complaint. 
Barclays sent Mr S a final response but didnt uphold his complaint. Mr S went on to refer his 
complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They listened to Mr S calls 
with Barclays but didnt feel hed been treated unfairly or differently because of his race. 
Mr S asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a service, its not our role to say whether a business has breached the Equality Act 2010 
or discriminated against a customer. Were an informal alternative to the courts and decide 
complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. But I want to assure Mr S that as the Equality Act 
2010 is the relevant law in this particular case, Ive taken that legislation and what it says 
about how businesses should treat customers into account when considering his complaint. 
Ive listened to both calls in question. During the first call, Mr S checked whether there was 
enough money to cover a direct debit payment. The call handler confirmed there wasnt and 
said they could recall the direct debit so Mr S could contact the business directly. From that 
point, matters escalated. I understand only £6 was required to make sure the direct debit 
went through and Mr S felt Barclays shouldve been in a position to assist him beyond the 
recall of his direct debit payment. But the Barclays account has a £10 buffer so there was a 
already measure in place to provide some assistance before direct debits are returned 
unpaid. 
Mr S complained about the way the first call handler dealt with his questions  he says she 
was racist. Ive listened to the call and I could hear there were some gaps after Mr S asked 
questions about the direct debit. But the call handler explained they were looking at his 
account and payments. It was when the call handler said an option was to recall the direct 
debit that Mr S said he thought Barclays should be able to do more given it was only £6. 
Matters became heated and there were times where both parties were speaking at once. 
The call handler took the step of ending the call when voices were raised.
Mr S has explained he feels the first complaint handler was racist towards him. I can see 
how the way his call was handled made Mr S feel and I dont seek to diminish what hes told 
us. But I think the issues raised most likely came about when matters escalated after the call 
handler wasnt able to offer further options in relation to the direct debit. Having listened to 
the call, I dont think the call handlers treatment of Mr S or their decision to end the call was 
made on the basis of his race. In my view, the call handler didnt treat Mr S unfairly. 
Ive also listened to the second call Mr S made a short time later. The second call handler 
checked Mr S account and confirmed a new deposit meant the direct debit in question had 
been paid. Mr S went on to say he thought the previous call handler had treated him poorly 
and that he wanted to raise a complaint that theyd been racist. The second call handler 
sought to locate a record of the call in question to identify the first person Mr S spoke with. 
They also sought to clarify the information provided by the first call handler in relation to 
direct debit payments. At this point, Mr S repeated his request to raise a complaint and was 
transferred to another team. I didnt think the second call handler treated Mr S unfairly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S as I can see how strongly he feels about this matter. But as Im 
satisfied that Barclays has dealt with his complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further 
action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman