DRN-3677678
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy how Barclays Bank UK PLC have handled her request for help to recover 
money following the cancellation of holidays she had booked. 
Mrs H has been represented by her son throughout this complaint, but for ease of reading Ill 
refer only to Mrs H within this decision. 
What happened
Mrs H used her Barclays debit card to pay for three separate holidays in 2019 and 2020. All 
three trips were arranged through an agent, who in turn arranged them with the travel 
provider, who Ill refer to as S. In mid-June 2019, Mrs H paid £260 for her and her husband  
this trip was scheduled for 15 June 2020. In mid-September 2019 Mrs H paid £130 for a trip 
scheduled for 20 September 2020, and in early January 2020 Mrs H paid £348 for a trip 
scheduled for 20 April 2020.
Mrs H has said that she found out S had gone into liquidation in February 2020 and, at that 
point, she contacted them to try and get a refund for the payments she had made. As she 
didnt hear back from them for several months, Mrs H contacted Barclays in October 2020 
asking for help to recover the money.
Barclays explained to Mrs H that two of the chargeback claims had been raised out of time, 
in accordance with the chargeback scheme rules. Therefore, Barclays said they were unable 
to help to recover those payments. They did accept that the payment made in 
September 2019 for the trip scheduled in September 2020 had been raised in time by Mrs H, 
and they temporarily applied £130 back to her account while the chargeback was considered 
further.
In mid-November 2020 Barclays wrote to Mrs H to ask for some additional information to 
help them pursue the chargeback that was in time. It seems that Mrs H didnt respond to this 
or provide the information required, so Barclays were unable to take the chargeback claim 
any further. They informed Mrs H of this towards the end of December 2020, and re-debited 
£130 from her account in early January 2021. 
Mrs H was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to our service. While our 
investigator was looking into it, Barclays came back to our service offering to make the 
payment of £130 to Mrs H as a gesture of goodwill. Our investigator felt that Barclays had 
declined the first two chargeback claims fairly in line with the chargeback scheme rules, and 
that their offer to refund Mrs H £130 as a gesture of goodwill for the third chargeback claim 
was reasonable. 
Mrs H didnt accept this. She said she wanted a full refund. 
As Mrs H hasnt accepted, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mrs H has been left out of pocket through no fault of her own, what Im deciding here 
is a complaint about Barclays and I need to consider if they did something wrong. And, for 
the same reasons as our investigator, I dont think they did. Ill explain why.
When a person makes a payment for goods or services using a debit card, their bank may 
be able to help them in limited circumstances if they havent received what they paid for. The 
bank can raise a dispute, known as a chargeback, with the bank which accepted the card 
payment. 
A chargeback isnt something a customer can demand that their bank attempt, but when 
faced with a person requesting assistance with a disputed debit card transaction I would 
expect the bank to consider attempting a chargeback, and to do so if there was a reasonable 
chance of it succeeding. 
As Ive suggested above, chargebacks are not always successful. There are rules which 
must be followed for chargebacks, and these are set by the card networks. In Mrs Hs case, 
that is Visa. Chargebacks can be defended by the recipient bank if they think the rules 
havent been followed. One aspect of the rules concerns the window of time, following a card 
transaction, in which a chargeback must be attempted. 
The rules which applied at the time of Mrs Hs transactions said that a chargeback needed to 
be attempted within 120 days of the date the service in question was meant to have been 
provided by, so long as this was no more than 540 days from the date of the debit card 
transaction. Visa issued guidance during the pandemic to say that these limits would not be 
extended. 
In Mrs Hs case, two of her trips were scheduled for 20 April and 15 June 2020. So, the 
chargeback requests would need to have been raised by 18 August and 13 October 2020 
respectively. Unfortunately, by the time Mrs H got in touch with Barclays on 20 October 2020 
about these two transactions and to tell them about the problem, it was too late. Barclays 
were right to say that the final chargeback for the trip scheduled for September 2020 was 
raised in time. I dont know why Mrs H didnt respond to Barclays request for additional 
information to enable them to take that chargeback claim further  but from what Ive seen I 
can understand why Barclays subsequently closed that chargeback claim and re-debited the 
money from Mrs Hs account. They didnt have enough information at the time to take the 
chargeback further. 
I understand why Mrs H may not have raised her concerns with Barclays before she did. She 
was attempting to get a refund from the travel provider herself. But Barclays must follow the 
rules set by the chargeback scheme owners, and Im satisfied they have done in this case. 
I know that Mrs H is frustrated with this situation and I sympathise with her. She is left out of 
pocket through no fault of her own. But my decision is only focussing on Barclays, and 
whether they acted unfairly towards Mrs H. And I dont think they have. I think that Barclays 
offer to refund Mrs H £130 as a gesture of goodwill for the chargeback that was originally 
raised in time is a fair one, and Im asking them to pay that to Mrs H to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC have offered Mrs H £130 to settle this complaint. I think that is fair in the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mrs H £130.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman