DRN-1523244
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) unfairly declined his claim for legal expenses insurance.
NFU use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance, so any reference to 
the insurer within this decision should be read as including the actions and omissions of 
such intermediaries.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M hold a Home and Lifestyle policy with NFU that includes legal expenses 
cover. For ease of reference, I will refer solely to Mr M throughout the rest of my decision as 
the complainant. 
Mr M made a claim in May 2019 for assistance in pursuing a nuisance claim against his 
next-door neighbour  who had erected a six foot fence on their land which was obstructing 
Mr Ms access to the side of his conservatory. 
NFU declined Mr Ms claim, however, because they said it was excluded by virtue of the 
nuisance having emanated from land which he did not own or have any established rights 
over. Mr M complained as he said his claim had been declined unfairly. In summary, he said:
A legal nuisance occurs when a landowner carries out a certain action on his own 
land which affects another persons use or enjoyment of their own neighbouring land. 
In this instance, the nuisance was the erection of the fence on his neighbour's land 
which prevented him from carrying out regular maintenance to the conservatory. 
Any instance of legal nuisance involves an action or activity by a neighbouring 
landowner on land that is not owned by the policyholder. So NFUs decision to 
decline the claim due to the nuisance taking place on land that did not belong to Mr 
M is incompatible with the definition of what constitutes a legal nuisance, and means 
that no claims would ever be accepted under the policy. 
So he submits that either NFUs interpretation of the policy exclusion is incorrect or it 
constitutes an unfair contract term. 
As a result, Mr M says that NFU should accept his claim for legal expenses insurance, and 
meet the costs he has so far incurred by instructing his own solicitor to pursue the nuisance 
claim. 
NFU maintained that the policy had been declined correctly as the legal nuisance had taken 
place on land that was not owned by Mr M. However, as a gesture of goodwill they agreed to 
appoint a panel solicitor to fully assess the legal prospects of his case, thereby waiving the 
policy exclusion. NFU said Mr M accepted this proposal and that a firm of solicitors were 
subsequently appointed, but he referred his complaint to this service in any event as he still 
felt that the claim had been declined unfairly.Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint, as she considered that his claim had been 
declined fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Mr M disagreed, so the matter 
has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
The relevant terms and conditions of Mr Ms legal expenses policy set out the insured peril 
as:
What is insured
A civil dispute relating to an INSURED PERSONS HOMEthat an INSURED 
PERSON ownsfollowing:
b) a legal nuisance (meaning any unlawful interference with an INSURED PERSONs 
use or enjoyment of an INSURED PERSONs land, or some right over, or in 
connection with it):
Provided that an INSURED PERSON must have established the legal ownership or 
right to the land that is the subject of the dispute.
And this insured peril is also subject to the following exclusion: 
What is not insured
A claim relating to the following...
b) any building or land other than an INSURED PERSONS HOME or SECONDARY 
HOME.
In the circumstances of Mr Ms claim, the nuisance in question is the six-foot fence that 
was erected on neighbouring land that he does not own. So NFU declined the claim on the 
basis that it was caught by the exclusion of being a claim relating to land other than the 
insureds land. 
There has been much dispute about whether the exclusion applies in these circumstances. 
But I do not consider it necessary to explore this point further, as an exclusion can only apply 
if the policy requirements for cover are first satisfied. And having considered both parties 
submissions, I do not think the circumstances of Mr Ms claim do satisfy the requirements for 
cover, as he has no established legal ownership or right to the land that is the subject of the 
dispute as required by the policy, given that the fence is situated on his neighbours land. 
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about the definition of a legal nuisance and whether the 
policy will respond to all types of conceivable nuisances. But it is the insurers prerogative to 
decide what risks they will and will not insure, and the policyholders to decide whether a 
policy offers the scope of cover they require. The policy does not designate a legal nuisance 
originating from anothers land/property to be an insured event, and specifies that it must 
pertain to the policyholders land in order for the policy to respond. It may be narrow in its 
scope and application, but I dont consider the requirements for cover to be unclear or 
lacking in transparency; the dispute/nuisance must relate to land owned by the policyholder. This is the insured event in this instance, and Mr M has not been able to show that any such 
event occurred as he does not own the land on which the fence was erected. And the fact 
that the circumstances of his claim do not necessarily fall within the scope of the insured 
event does not mean that the policy term is unfair either.
In any event, this is all largely a moot point at this stage given that NFU did subsequently 
refer the matter to their panel solicitors for a prospects assessment as a gesture of goodwill. 
NFU said that the solicitors only assessed the claim because they asked them to overlook 
the policy requirement of the customer having an established right to use the land. 
The solicitors said that there was no longer an ongoing nuisance as the neighbour had since 
removed the fence following a letter being sent by Mr Ms own solicitor. So even if I were to 
decide that NFU had wrongly declined the claim initially, there would be nothing further for 
me to direct the insurer to do, given that they have already agreed to waive the policy 
requirement in the circumstances and have a prospects assessment carried out by panel 
solicitors. NFU have also indicated that they would be open to covering any future nuisance 
claims submitted by Mr M if another obstruction is placed in the same area  but this would 
require him to make another claim and so is not something I am able to comment on at this 
juncture.
I appreciate that Mr M has incurred costs by instructing his own solicitor to pursue the 
nuisance claim. But given that I dont consider his claim to have technically met the policy 
requirements, I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to direct NFU to reimburse these 
costs  particularly as legal expenses incurred without the insurers permission are also 
expressly excluded under the policy. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly that NFU have mishandled his claim. But for the 
reasons given above, I do not think their interpretation or application of the policy term is 
unreasonable in these circumstances. And they have since decided to waive the policy 
requirement of owning the land in any event. So it follows that I do not uphold this 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman