DRN-3099418
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was over 
four years old when it was supplied and had already completed in excess of 62,000 miles. 
So, I think a reasonable person would expect some wear and tear and consider it likely 
some of the cars components would not be performing as well as they would be on a brand-
new car.
The independent inspection in February 2021 confirmed the presence of a suspension 
problem but didnt think that issue was likely to have been present when Mr S took receipt of 
the car. Im persuaded by the inspectors expert opinion, and also by the fact that a previous 
independent inspection in October 2020 hadnt identified any issue with the suspension, that 
the suspension fault wasnt present when the car was supplied to Mr S: the point at which 
Santander were responsible for the cars quality. So, whilst I can see the dealership were 
prepared to fund some of the expense of rectifying the suspension problems I dont think 
they had to, and I dont think it would be fair for me to insist that Santander cover the cost 
Mr S incurred to complete the repair/fit the parts.
The independent inspector also didnt think it was likely there was a fault with the battery 
when the car was supplied. It was his opinion that the fault was as a result of age-related 
battery deterioration and I dont think it would be fair to hold Santander responsible for such 
wear and tear.
I understand Mr Ss frustration and Ive read his concerns about the competence of the 
engineer who completed the independent inspection. I can see that the engineers 
qualifications and experience are summarised at the end of the inspection report. They 
confirm he has 11 years of experience in the motor industry and has the requisite 
qualifications to provide expert evidence to the courts. I dont think, on that evidence, it 
would be fair to suggest there is evidence of a lack of competence.
Overall, Im afraid I wont be asking Santander to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman