DRN-2947972
The complaint
Mr I complains about the amount of policy excess Calpe insurance Company Limited wants 
him to pay following a claim against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr I reversed into another car damaging its left rear. He took photographs and exchanged 
details with the other driver. Six months later, the other driver made a claim to Calpe. Calpe 
paid the claim which also included damage to a door and wing mirror. This was despite the 
other drivers engineers concern that the damage wasnt caused by a single impact. Hire 
was provided for the other driver, but this was longer than expected due to the national 
lockdown. Calpe wanted Mr I to pay his full policy excess of £3,000. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Calpe 
hadnt sufficiently investigated the claim before accepting it in full. She thought Mr Is 
photographs and his account and the engineers concern showed that Mr I was responsible 
only for the damage to the cars left rear. She also thought the repairs, and car hire, had 
been extended due to the additional repairs carried out. 
So she thought Calpe should recalculate the cost of the repairs to the rear of the other car, 
and the time they would take. Then it should recalculate the hire cost. She also thought 
Calpe should repair any damage to Mr Is car and pay him £175 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by the delays in the claim and the dispute. 
Calpe agreed to do this so that Mr I was required to pay £2,682.21 as the policy excess. And 
it agreed to pay Mr I £175 compensation. But Mr I thought the price was still too high. So the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Calpe has agreed that it didnt fully investigate the claim before paying all the 
other drivers costs. And Mr I doesnt need his car repaired. So whats left for me to decide is 
whether the amount Calpe is asking Mr I to pay for the policy excess is fair and reasonable. 
Calpe recalculated the cost of the repairs it should have held Mr I responsible for, those to 
the rear corner of the car. Mr I thought it would cost only about £400 for this repair. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
So I think its reasonable for Calpe to rely on an engineers estimate of the repair costs. I can 
see that the engineer excluded the cost for the repair of damage to the side of the car from 
the overall report of the claim costs. This left a cost of £2,282.52 for the repairs to the rear 
corner. I can understand that Mr I thinks this amount is significant, but I havent seen any 
engineering evidence to show that this cost is unreasonable. So I think its fair and 
reasonable for Calpe to ask Mr I to pay this. 
The engineer estimated that it would take three days for this repair to be carried out. So 
Calpe reduced the hire cost that Mr I would have been responsible for to three days, 
£225.69. It also included a charge for storage, £114, and the other insurers assessors fee, 
£60. I think these costs were fair and reasonable as theyre in keeping with what Ive seen in 
similar claims.
Mr Is policy had a £3,000 all sections policy excess. So he has to pay the first £3,000 of any 
claim, regardless of whether he made a claim for his own damage or not. So I think Calpe is 
entitled to ask him to repay its outlay of £2,682.21 for the cost of the repairs to the rear of the 
other drivers car. And I think this is the amount it should record as the cost of the claim on 
the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. 
Mr I has been put to considerable trouble and upset by the delays in the handling of his 
claim. And hes had the inconvenience and stress of having to raise a dispute with Calpe 
about its poor investigation of the claim and the amount hes responsible for. The 
investigator recommended that Calpe should pay him £175 compensation for this. I think 
thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with the amount Id award in similar situations.
 Putting things right
I require Calpe insurance Company Limited to do the following, as its already agreed to do:
1. Reduce Mr Is liability for the claim costs to £2,682.21 and record this on CUE.
2. Pay Mr I £175 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe 
insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already agreed to 
do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman