DRN-4312077
The complaint
Mr H complained that M&G Wealth Advice Limited (M&G) provided poor customer service 
during a phone call he had with it. 
What happened
Mr H had an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with M&G. He phoned M&G at the end of 
November 2022 to get clarification about additional verification checks that M&G said it 
would need to perform in relation to Mr H providing his bank details to M&G. 
Mr H complained to M&G about the service provided by the M&G adviser and a manager 
during this call. He said the adviser repeatedly mishandled matters. Mr H then contacted 
M&G in early January 2023 to say that he hadnt yet received an acknowledgement or 
response to his complaint. 
M&G responded to Mr Hs complaint a few weeks later. It explained what additional checks 
needed to be completed for bank account verification. It apologised for any confusion that 
might have arisen during the call with the M&G adviser in relation to the authentication 
checks leaving a footprint on his credit file. M&G agreed it hadnt processed Mr Hs 
complaint correctly. It offered Mr H compensation of £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr H remained unhappy and so complained to this Service. He said that M&G failed to offer 
fair and reasonable monetary compensation for mishandling his call and failing to raise a 
complaint. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H didnt agree with what our Investigator 
said and so this came to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first of all at how the M&G adviser, and the manager, handled the call Mr H made 
in November 2022. Mr H feels this call was mishandled. Having listened to the call, I dont 
think that was the case. Ill explain why I say that.
 
In terms of how they behaved during the call, Im satisfied that both members of staff 
remained professional while talking to Mr H. I thought it was clear that both were trying to 
help him get a response to the query he raised. 
Its the case that the adviser felt the need to put Mr H on hold, as they didnt know the 
answer to the query he raised and wanted to speak to colleagues in order to get an answer 
for Mr H. They made it clear to Mr H that the checks were dealt with by a different 
department. To my mind, theres no failing here. I wouldnt necessarily expect an adviser to 
know the answer to each and every question asked of them. What I would expect is that they 
do what they reasonably can to find an answer for a consumer, and I can see that this is 
what the M&G adviser did here.
I also thought it was reasonable for the adviser to check their understanding of the query 
with Mr H before looking to get advice from colleagues. It was clear Mr H didnt like being 
asked to repeat information he had already provided but I dont think it was the case that the 
adviser wasnt listening to him  its clear in the phone call what question they were going to 
ask colleagues. It just seemed to be that they wanted to be certain they were going to ask 
the right questions in order to be able to provide Mr H with the answer he wanted. This is 
perfectly reasonable. 
So, overall, Im satisfied that the M&G adviser and the manager remained professional and 
courteous during the call with Mr H and tried to help him get a response to his query. So I 
am not asking M&G to take any further action here. 
Looking at how M&G dealt with Mr Hs complaint, I can see that it has acknowledged that 
errors were made here. However, this Service doesnt punish businesses when errors are 
made  thats the role of the regulator. What we do is look at the impact of the error on the 
consumer. From the information Ive been provided with, I cant see that Mr H has suffered a 
financial loss as a result of this error. But I can see how having to contact M&G to let it know 
he hadnt received an acknowledgement to his complaint would have been both 
inconvenient and frustrating. M&G has already offered Mr H £50 compensation and I think 
this amount is fair. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr H, but I am not asking M&G to take any further action 
here. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not require M&G Wealth Advice Limited to take any further 
action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman