DRN-4255778
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as C has complained about the indemnity start date Covea 
Insurance plc used to settle its business interruption insurance claim as it does not think it 
has been paid enough to settle its claim.
Mrs C, a director of C, has complained on Cs behalf.
What happened
C runs a day care and pre-school business for which it held business interruption insurance 
with Covea. Cs policy was due for renewal on 22 March 2020 and C asked its broker to 
amend the sum insured on the new policy from £700,000 to £950,000. 
C claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. Covea accepted Cs claim and settled it using an indemnity start 
date of 20 March 2020 as this was the date of the Government announcement which 
impacted Cs business. This meant that the claim was settled on the basis that the sum 
insured was £700,000. However, as Cs business was underinsured Covea only paid around 
48.3% of the claim.
C said it had remained open for a week after the announcement and asked that the 
indemnity start date be moved forward so that it would be considered under the new policy.
Covea said it applied the same start date to the claims of all of its policyholders and it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to change it in this case.
Unhappy with Coveas response, C brought its complaint to our service. It said the claim 
being paid under the 2019-2020 policy meant it hadnt been paid enough in settlement of the 
claim due to being underinsured.
Our Investigator looked into Cs complaint and recommended it be upheld. He thought the 
reasonable indemnity start date was 23 March 2020 as this was the date Cs business had 
been impacted. He recommended that Covea settle Cs claim under the policy with the 
higher indemnity limit and pay interest on any additional amount.
C accepted the investigators recommendation but Covea didnt. It said the sum insured had 
not been increased until 29 April 2020 as this was the date the cover was added by Cs 
broker.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 April 2023 which indicated that I 
intended to uphold Cs complaint. 
Indemnity start date
In my provisional decision I said that the starting point was for me to consider the indemnity 
start date for Cs claim. To do that I looked at the terms and conditions of Cs policy.
The core business interruption cover in Cs policy is extended through various extensions. 
The extensions section says:
Any cover for loss in respect of any item shown as insured by this Section in the 
schedule, resulting from interruption to or interference with the childcare business 
in consequence of damage to property, is extended to include such loss at or in 
the situations where detailed within the Extensions and will be deemed to be loss 
resulting from damage to property used by you at the premises for the purposes 
of the childcare business.
Cs claim was paid under the following clause:
Interruption of or interference with the childcare business in consequence of 
access to the premises being hindered or prevented as a result of the actions or 
advice of a government or local authority following an emergency which is likely 
to endanger life or property.
So I thought this would be considered the insured damage in this case.
The indemnity period is defined in the policy as:
the period beginning with the date of damage and lasting for the period during 
which your childcare business is affected as a result of the damage, but not 
longer than the maximum indemnity period
I thought this meant that the indemnity period started with the date that Cs business was 
interrupted or interfered with in consequence of access to the premises being hindered or 
prevented as a result of the actions or advice of the Government following an emergency 
likely to endanger life or property. I said that the emergency likely to endanger life or 
property was Covid-19 and the Government actions or advice was the restrictions placed on 
Cs business in response to the pandemic. Therefore, I considered on which date Cs 
business was interrupted or interfered with in consequence of this.
I said that on 18 March 2020, the UK Government announced that nurseries would be 
required to close their premises for most pupils from Friday afternoon. As no children would 
have been due to attend the nursery either on the evening of 20 March 2020 or over the 
weekend I didnt think C business was interrupted at that time. As the impact of the 
Government restrictions did not affect Cs business until Monday 23 March 2020 I thought it 
would be fair and reasonable to conclude that this was the date that access was prevented 
and also when Cs losses commenced. Therefore, I thought this was the date of the insured 
damage and as such was the indemnity start date. I did not think it produced a fair and 
reasonable outcome for Covea to apply its blanket approach to Cs business without 
considering its individual circumstances.
How the claim should have been settled
As I didnt think Covea acted fairly and reasonably in how it applied the indemnity start date I 
thought about what should have happened if it had accepted that the indemnity start date 
was 23 March 2020.
I said that the claim should have been considered under the policy which commenced on   
22 March 2020. The schedule shows that this policy was incepted with a loss of revenue 
sum insured of £700,000. This was the sum insured at the time of the claim so it should have 
formed the basis of the settlement amount for the claim. I understood that C asked its broker 
to increase the sum insured from renewal and Covea increased the sum insured when requested by Cs broker. As the broker was acting as Cs agent, I said that I couldnt hold 
Covea responsible for the sum insured not having been increased at the time of the claim. 
Therefore, I didnt think Covea needed to apply the sum insured of £950,000 when 
calculating the settlement amount.
Despite that, I did not think that the amount Covea has paid to settle Cs claim was fair and 
reasonable. 
I said that Cs policy contained an average clause and that, when considering a complaint 
where underinsurance is alleged, before considering the policy terms, I must first consider 
the Insurance Act 2015. Under the Act a commercial customer has a duty to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer. 
Having considered the information provided to Covea by C, or its broker on its behalf, I didnt 
think C had made a fair presentation of the risk when renewing the policy. I said that the 
remedies under the Act meant that Covea should have paid 97% of the claim, which is more 
than it had paid when applying the average clause. 
As I thought applying the average clause had disadvantaged C, I considered whether Covea 
had complied with Section 17 of the Act which lays out the transparency requirements for 
contracting out of the Act. I did not think Covea had done enough to fulfil the requirements of 
the Act in relation to contracting out, so I said it was not reasonable for it to rely on the 
average clause in the policy to settle this claim. For this reason, I said I intended to require 
Covea to settle the claim in line with the Act, rather than the average clause. I said this 
meant that Covea should pay C an additional £16,976.45 plus interest. 
C accepted my decision but Covea did not. It provided a detailed response. I am not going to 
set out and respond to all of the points Covea made because having considered one point I 
let both parties know that I was minded to change my decision. 
Covea believed that I was wrong to conclude that the average clause would put C in a worse 
position than it would have been in under the Act. Covea said that it did not agree that it was 
reasonable to compare the overall premium and that I should base my calculations only on 
the premium for the loss of revenue section. Covea said cover for £700,000 sum insured, 
including IPT, was £423.83. Whereas the premium at renewal for a sum insured of 
£1,450,048, which Covea said was the amount which should have been declared, would 
have been an additional £877.96 including IPT. 
In an email to both parties dated 7 July 2023, I said I that I intended to accept Coveas point 
that, in this particular case, the calculation should be considered against the amount paid for 
the loss of revenue section of the policy and not the overall policy premium.
In reaching this decision I looked at how Cs policy has been structured. While I believed that 
the different elements of cover made up one contract (the whole policy) Covea confirmed 
that the elements of cover are priced separately and provided evidence of the individual 
premiums. Covea also confirmed that if there was underinsurance in one section, such as in 
loss of revenue, a proportionate settlement would not be applied to any losses in another 
area of the policy, for example property damage. I said that even though, in this case, there 
had not been any other losses, as any reduction would not have been applied to other areas 
of the policy, I did not think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome for me to require 
Covea to pay an increased percentage of the claim.
I reviewed the information provided by Covea and it showed that the premium for loss of 
revenue when the policy renewed in 2020 with £700,000 worth of cover was £423.83, 
including insurance premium tax (IPT). In my provisional decision, I said that the additional premium for the increased sum insured was £235.46. However, Covea pointed out that the 
estimated sum insured for 24 months should have been £1,450,048. Therefore, I said that 
this was the figure that I needed to take into account when considering what C should have 
declared as the sum insured.
I asked Covea to provide me with evidence from its system to show that the premium would 
have been an additional £877.96. It later clarified that £877.96 was the total amount and not 
in addition to the £423.83 already paid. I said that, if I was satisfied that this was the correct 
additional amount, then I did not think that C had been disadvantaged by Covea applying the 
average clause and so I did not intend to require Covea to pay C anything further. 
Covea said that due to changes within its system it was no longer able to provide a 
screenshot or other evidence to support that the additional premium would have been 
£877.96. 
C was disappointed that I intended to reach a different outcome and made the following 
points:
The correspondence from the broker clearly said it was in the wrong when failing to 
increase the loss of revenue section from 22 March 2020 but I have not referred to 
this letter. 
The correct premium paid in 2020 was £3,125.39 not £3,005.86 for the entire policy.
An email from Coveas loss adjuster regarding underinsurance correlates with a 
summary and guide sent by the brokers. This summary and guide show that the 
amount payable was £950,000 and this is the amount that C should be able to claim. 
The premium should not be sectioned into the various portions of the Schedule and 
this is not stated anywhere in the policy. 
Covea should explain why and how only a portion of the premium should be 
considered for a particular section. 
It believes that the settlement should be based on the £950,000 requested rather 
than £700,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not going to require Covea to do anything further. I will explain why. 
C has provided a booklet from its broker and referred to a letter acknowledging the fault of 
the broker. However, Covea is a separate company to the broker and so I cannot hold it 
responsible for anything the broker might, or might not, have done wrong. I also cannot 
make a finding in this decision about whether the broker has done anything wrong. Cs 
complaint about its broker will need considering separately to its complaint about Covea. 
It is not in dispute that C intended to increase its sum insured to £950,000. However, this 
increase had not been implemented at the time the period of loss started on 22 March 2020. 
Therefore, Covea should have used the sum insured of £700,000 as the basis of its 
calculation for the claim.  
I thank C for pointing out that the premium paid in March 2020 was £3,125.39, however, this does not change the outcome of my decision. This is because I remain of the view that 
Covea priced each part of the policy separately. Covea has provided a table which sets out 
the premium for each part of the policy so I am satisfied that it prices each part of the policy 
separately. I have considered Cs point that this is not set out in the policy terms but, given 
how the policy is structured, I do not think that makes a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. I think that the different parts of cover, set out on the Schedule, are priced 
separately and Covea would only apply any deduction for underinsurance to the part of the 
policy that was underinsured, and not to other parts of the cover. This is consistent with 
other cases that I have seen. 
Although C looked to increase the sum insured to £950,000 Covea has pointed out that it 
should have increased this to more than £1.45million as that is the amount required for the 
24 month indemnity period. When bringing its complaint to our service C told us that its 
turnover was £750,000 per year. This is consistent with the loss adjusters view that C 
should have increased the sum insured for 24 months. C said it thought that £950,000 was 
adequate as prior to 2020 the indemnity period had been for 12 months. However, what the 
change to a 24 month indemnity period means is that even if C had increased the sum 
insured to £950,000 it would still have been underinsured. Therefore, I need to consider the 
claim in line with what the sum insured should have been and not what C asked to increase 
the limit to. So the amounts I need to compare are what C paid for the £700,000 sum insured 
which was in place when the loss commenced and what C would have paid if it had correctly 
increased the sum insured to around £1.45million. 
Covea has provided a table showing that C paid £423.83 for £700,000 loss of revenue 
cover. It has been unable to show a screenshot from its system but said that for the cover it 
required C should have paid £877.96. Therefore, C had paid 48.3% of the premium it should 
have paid. While Covea has not been able to provide a screenshot from its system, I have to 
make a decision based on what I think is most likely. Given that the premium increased by 
£235.46 when the cover increased from £700,000 to £950,000, I think an increase to 
£877.96 when the cover was increased to £1.45million is consistent. I am therefore 
persuaded by the information provided by Covea regarding how much C should have paid. 
Cs policy includes an average clause which says that where the total sum insured specified 
in the schedule is less than 85% of the total value of the property insured then Covea will 
only bear a proportion of the loss with the insured bearing the other proportion. Covea has 
paid C 48.3% of its claim under this clause. This is the same amount that Covea would have 
needed to pay if it had considered the claim in the way I set out in my provisional decision. 
Therefore, I do not think that, in this particular case, the average clause is disadvantageous. 
And, even if I did, as Covea has already paid 48.3% of the premium, I would not require it to 
pay anything further as this is the same amount it would have needed to pay when 
considering it in line with the Act. 
I recognise that C will be disappointed with the outcome I have reached but, I do not believe 
that I could fairly require Covea to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that while I uphold Cs complaint regarding the start date for the 
indemnity period, I do not require Covea to do anything differently as it has already paid a 
fair and reasonable amount to settle Cs claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman