DRN-3285552
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the value received from a life assurance policy. Responsibility for 
administering the policy now rests with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. To keep things 
simple, Ill refer to Aviva in this decision to mean them, and their predecessors.
What happened
Mrs Cs mother took out the life policy in 1989. She then put it in trust, making herself and 
Mrs C its trustees. 
A document from 1989 shows there were two parts to the life assurance. As long as a 
monthly premium was paid, thered be some cover that lasted for the whole of the life of Mrs 
Cs mother, and thered be some cover that decreased over a period of 30 years. 
Mrs Cs complaint arose just over 30 years later. Her mother had become unwell, and 
ultimately died. Mrs C felt the money Aviva told her the policy would pay was too low.
Aviva confirmed that the value reflected that the policy had the decreasing bit. Their 
complaint response noted that this had been explained to Mrs C in 2010. And that details 
about the changing value of the policy were given to Mrs Cs financial adviser in 2011, 2019, 
and 2020. 
Aviva noticed though that they hadnt explained the decreasing part of the policy in a call 
about its value on 2019. And they explained that a letter theyd tried to send Mrs C in 2020 
had been returned undelivered as they didnt have her updated name and address. And they 
apologised for spelling Mrs Cs name wrong in some of their letters. To put these issues 
right, Aviva paid Mrs C £150 compensation. 
Unsatisfied with this response, Mrs C came to us. She felt she should have been given the 
money she thought the policy would pay in order to resolve her complaint. But our 
investigator found that even with more explanation about the policy, Mrs C wouldnt have 
been able to make changes to it. And she thought Aviva had taken reasonable steps to keep 
Mrs C informed about the policy over the years. 
Mrs C didnt agree, and asked for the case to be reviewed. So its come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that wont be the 
result Mrs C was hoping for. But Ill explain how Ive reached my decision.
The first point I note is that the has worked as intended here. The document Ive mentioned 
above from 1989 is consistent with Avivas explanation of the policy in 2020. So Im satisfied 
there hasnt been a mistake by Aviva thats reduced what the policy paid.
I also cant see that Mrs C could change the policy significantly, even if shed been more 
aware of how it worked. It was perhaps open to her to cancel the policy before a claim was 
made, with a view to arranging something else. But I cant be sure shed have found 
something. It could have been difficult to get new life cover, given Mrs Cs mothers age. 
Ive thought about whether Aviva needed to do more to make sure Mrs C understood this 
policy. But I find it reasonable for them to expect the explanations they referred to in their 
complaint response to have made it clear what the policy was. Mrs C had a financial adviser 
who knew the policy existed, so Aviva could have some expectation theyd understand the 
policy and be advising Mrs C accordingly.
I can see that the amount the policy would pay out changed in every valuation Aviva gave. 
But that reflects the way the policy worked, rather than a mistake by Aviva. The only 
guaranteed values look to be the payment from the whole-of-life cover, and the confirmed 
bonuses from the invested part of the policy. The amount Mrs C received exceeded these 
amounts, so Im satisfied the guaranteed parts of the value have been honoured by Aviva. 
So I think Aviva did enough to explain the policy and its value to Mrs C and her adviser. 
I can see Mrs C has complained about Avivas attempts to contact her when her name and 
address had changed. I appreciate Mrs C feels more could have been done to track her 
down. But equally, I dont see that Aviva are responsible for the root cause of the problem  
that Mrs Cs name and address had changed without anyone telling Aviva. 
Ultimately, Aviva tried to locate Mrs C, but couldnt. Thats unfortunate, but I dont consider it 
fair to use that to say they should now pay the significant extra sums Mrs C wants from the 
policy. 
Aviva fulfilled the terms of the policy. And theyve explained it to Mrs C and her adviser at 
various points over the years. I find the service theyve provided was fair and reasonable in 
those circumstances. 
My final decision
Given the above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C as trustee of 
the Leddra trust to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman