DRN-4052970
The complaint
Mr Y complains about Agria Pet Insurance Ltd (API) and their involvement in the failed set 
up of his free five-week pet insurance policy, offered by his local vet.
What happened
On 9 August 2022, Mr Y took his puppy to his local vet, who Ill refer to as S. On this 
appointment, Mr Y agreed to take a pet health plan (PHP) alongside a five-week free 
insurance policy, which was underwritten by API.
But Mr Y later discovered that S didnt activate this insurance policy on their side due to 
human error. So, API didnt receive Mr Ys details that wouldve allowed them to set up the 
policy. Mr Y was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr Y thought API were wrong to allow S to offer the insurance policy when S werent 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And so, he thought API should be held 
responsible for S failure to activate the policy, which left his puppy without insurance when 
he thought a policy was in place. And he wanted API to pay him the claim amount he 
wouldve been entitled to under the policy had it been activated and had he needed to claim.
API responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They gave a detailed explanation as to 
why they felt S was allowed to introduce customers to them, and why they felt this was 
compliant with industry regulations. And they thought their offer of back dating the five-week 
free insurance policy, as well as explaining the free policy was still able to be set up until Mr 
Ys puppy was 18 months old, was both fair and reasonable considering it was S mistake 
that led to the failed activation, not theirs. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr Y remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained it wasnt our 
services role to consider whether the relationship between S and API was compliant with 
FCA regulations. So, they didnt comment on this aspect of the complaint further. And they 
were satisfied the error in setting up the policy was the fault of S, not API, so they didnt think 
it was fair to hold API liable for this. And even if they did, our investigator explained Mr Ys 
puppy didnt have any illnesses or accidents during the time the five-week policy shouldve 
been in place that couldve been claimed for. So, our investigator didnt think Mr Y had lost 
out financially and they didnt think API needed to do anything more.
Mr Y didnt agree, and he explained why on a phone call to our investigator. His reasoning 
included, and was not limited to, his belief that API as the insurer should be held liable for S 
failure to activate the policy. And he thought he should be compensated for the situation, and 
financial loss, he may have found himself in, had he needed to claim for an illness or 
accident during that time. As Mr Y didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr Y. I recognise he opted 
into the optional five-week insurance policy to ensure his puppy was covered for any 
illnesses or accidents during that period of time. So, I can understand his upset when he 
discovered the policy hadnt been set up and I can appreciate why Mr Y would want to be 
compensated for the fact he was left financially at risk because of this.
I can also understand why Mr Y would look at the situation and feel as though API are the 
party responsible, as they were the underwriters for the insurance policy that wasnt 
activated correctly. But for me to say API should compensate Mr Y, or direct them to do 
something else, I first need to be satisfied API have done something wrong. So, Id need to 
be satisfied it was APIs error that led to the policy not being activated. And then, Id need to 
be satisfied that Mr Y was impacted in such a way that means API should do something to 
recognise that impact. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise a large part of Mr Ys complaint centres 
around his belief that S shouldnt have been allowed to introduce APIs policy to Mr Y, as 
they arent regulated by the FCA. So, Mr Y feels the relationship between API and S is unfair 
and fails to act within industry regulations. But the working relationship between API and S 
falls under APIs commercial decision making. And this isnt something our service is able to 
consider, or comment upon. This would fall under the FCAs remit as the industry regulator. 
Im glad to see Mr Y is already aware of this and has contacted the FCAs supervision 
department. He would need to continue his dialogue with the FCA about this matter.
Im also unable to consider any actions taken, or service provided, by S as they arent 
regulated by the FCA. And as they havent acted as an agent of API in this situation, Im also 
unable to say that API are liable or responsible for the actions S have taken.
So, my decision focuses solely on the actions of API and the service API have provided to 
consider whether they have acted fairly and reasonably, considering what they were able to 
control.
In this situation, its accepted that S failed to activate the policy due to human error. So, Mr Y 
and his puppys details werent passed onto API for a policy to be incepted. As API didnt 
receive these details, I dont think API had any reasonable way of knowing that Mr Y 
intended for a policy to be put in place and so, I dont think I can say API have done anything 
wrong when not incepting the policy. And because of this, I dont think I can say they should 
do anything more here.
But I can see that, once API were made aware of the issue, they offered to back date Mr Ys 
policy to 9 August and allow Mr Y to purchase a full policy to ensure his puppy was covered 
for the entire period. Or they offered Mr Y the chance to make use of the five-week free 
insurance period moving forwards. I think both of these options were both fair and 
reasonable, considering it wasnt APIs error that led to Mr Ys complaint. I cant see any 
evidence to show Mr Y selected to utilise either of these options.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr Y was hoping for. And I recognise Mr Y feels its unfair 
he was left without cover from 9 August until mid-September when the free policy wouldve lapsed. But crucially, from looking at the clinical notes of his puppy, no treatment was 
required that wouldve been claimable on the policy during this period of time. So, even if I 
did think API had done something wrong, I dont think Mr Y has been caused a financial loss 
because of this.
I recognise Mr Y feels he should be compensated for what couldve happened, in the worst-
case scenario. But our service does not compensate customers for potential losses, or 
hypothetical scenarios. Our service is only able to compensate customers for direct losses 
and impact. And I dont think there have been any on this occasion.
So, while I do appreciate Mr Y is unlikely to agree, I dont think API need to do anything 
more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint about Agria Pet Insurance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman