DRN-3978807
The complaint
Miss F complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) when they 
reviewed and blocked her account.
What happened
In October 2022, RBS restricted three of Miss Fs accounts while they carried out a review. 
During this time, Miss F couldnt access her money and says this caused her severe stress 
as she couldnt afford day to day living costs such as food and taking care of her animals. 
Miss F also explained she couldnt pay for essential things such as credit card bills and car 
tax. Miss F said that RBS didnt tell her why her accounts had been restricted  but she told 
our service shed won some money through a gambling website. RBS didnt ask Miss F any 
questions relating to the money held in her account.
Miss F found out, through her partners bank, that a restraint order had been issued which 
impacted Miss F directly. Miss F sent a copy of the restraint order to our service which 
explained the money held in Miss Fs accounts should remain frozen for 180 days from 
28 November 2022. In January 2023, RBS wrote to Miss F to inform her that once the 
restraint order is discharged, they would close Miss Fs accounts. RBS also confirmed that if 
the accounts held any money which wasnt linked to the restraint order, Miss F could transfer 
the monies to another bank.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt ask RBS to do anything differently. She 
explained RBS were entitled to block the account and withhold the money in it as it formed 
part of the restraint order.
Miss F disagreed. In summary, she was unhappy that she didnt receive any 
correspondence from RBS about the restraint order and only found out through her partners 
bank. And she feels being left without access to her money since October 2022 is against 
her human rights as she didnt have access to money for essentials such as food and bills. 
Miss F confirmed she wanted an apology and compensation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block and closure 
RBS are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
I appreciate why Miss F may have found the review inconvenient, but that doesnt mean 
RBS did anything wrong. Im aware RBS didnt tell Miss F about the review - but theyre not 
obliged to. Im satisfied RBS have complied with the terms and conditions when reviewing 
and blocking Miss Fs account.  So, I cant reasonably say theyve done anything wrong.
Withholding the funds 
I appreciate how distressing this overall situation would have been for Miss F. And she 
thinks it is against her human rights to withhold her money for such a prolonged period of 
time  especially as she says she couldnt afford essentials such as food, paying bills and 
caring for her animals. I appreciate the impact this had on Miss F but I cant fairly uphold her 
complaint on this point. I say that because once a freezing order was granted, RBS had a 
duty to act on it - and therefore they werent able to release the money or give Miss F access 
to her accounts. I also dont consider RBS caused any delays when blocking Miss Fs 
account in October 2022 to review it, up until the restraint order was granted.
I recognise Miss F thinks RBS should have asked her questions about the money in her 
accounts - but RBS are legally obligated to comply with such orders and therefore its not 
always appropriate for them to engage in their own investigation. I'm satisfied that's what's 
happened here, and while I recognise the distress it caused Miss F I can't fairly say RBS 
acted inappropriately. 
Ive also thought about the point Miss F raised that RBS didnt tell her about the restraint 
order. Miss F provided a copy of the freezing order to our service. I can see it was issued by 
the court on 28 November 2022 and is addressed to Miss F directly, using the same address 
she provided to our service for her complaint. So, while I recognise Miss Fs frustration that 
RBS didnt inform her, I dont think it was their duty to  as they werent the ones who issued 
the restraint order.
I appreciate Miss F has been without her money for a prolonged period of time, but until the 
restraint order is discharged, RBS arent able to release the money. RBS have confirmed 
once they receive confirmation that the restraint order has been discharged, they will issue a 
cheque to Miss F for the remaining balance. Im also aware Miss F has already opened a 
new account with another bank, so I dont foresee her having issues paying the cheque in.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023. 
Hayley West
Ombudsman