DRN-1405802
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was added to 
Mrs Cs Barclaycard account when she filled in an application form sent to her through the 
post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with our adjudicator and asked 
for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
Mrs C mainly complained that:
she does not recall receiving any specific policy terms and conditions and doesnt 
feel she was given clear and accurate enough information to make an informed 
decision
she felt like she had to have the policy and didnt realise it was optional as the 
paperwork did not prompt her to think otherwise
she wouldve received 3 months full sick pay and had family and friends to fall back 
on if she needed to so the policy wasnt cost effective for her as she wouldnt have 
needed to use it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint for the following reasons.
I've taken carefully into account what Mrs C told me about why she took out the PPI. But  
what Mrs C says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I must 
make my decision based on what I think is most likely taking into account all the available 
information and the wider circumstances. 
Mrs C made it clear on the application form she completed that she wanted to take out the 
policy by ticking to have PPI, next to where it says: Yes, please can I apply for Barclaycard 
Payment Protection .
This wording doesnt suggest PPI wasnt optional. There wasnt anything on the form that 
I think wouldve reasonably made Mrs C think that she had to have PPI  the box wasnt pre-
ticked and she couldve left the PPI tick box blank if she hadnt wanted to have the cover. 
On balance, I think PPI was added to Mrs Cs Barclaycard account, at her request, when she 
indicated on the application she completed that she wanted to have it. Although I can 
completely understand if shes forgotten as this was so long ago. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave her enough clear information so she could 
decide for herself if she wanted to have PPI. And if this didnt happen, Ive thought about 
what difference, if any, this makes overall.
Mrs C was eligible for the policy. There were some things the policy didnt cover but it 
doesnt look as if those applied in Mrs Cs case when she took out her Barclaycard. So, 
I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected 
her decision to take it out. 
Mrs C had some sick pay entitlement through work. She told us that she wouldve had full 
sick pay for 3 months from her employer. But the policy wouldve paid more than her 
minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or 
sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Mrs C mightve also had some additional costs if 
she was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit 
at a difficult time.
And the policy wouldve also protected Mrs Cs credit card repayments if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
The policy couldve cleared all the outstanding balance on her Barclaycard if she claimed for 
the full 12 months. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mrs C mentioned having a few months worth of savings at the time. But I dont know if she 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if she wasnt able to work. And it was up to Mrs C to 
decide for herself if PPI was something she felt might be useful, knowing what other means 
she had to rely on and what her financial situation was at the time. I can see why Mrs C 
mightve wanted to take out PPI  especially as having PPI meant she wouldnt be at risk of 
having to use her savings to cover her credit card monthly repayments and she could keep 
her money to spend on other things or to provide financial security. 
And although Mrs C told us she was in receipt of tax credit payments and child benefit this 
was money intended to help with essential household costs and family expenses  it didnt 
duplicate PPI which was specifically set up to cover her credit card monthly repayments.   
So I think the policy offered her useful cover based on all the information I've seen and been 
told about her financial situation at the time. 
I dont think Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out 
if Mrs C made a claim. But even if she hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would actually 
cost on a month to month basis, Mrs C chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to 
 so she seems to have wanted it. The policy appears to have been affordable for her when 
she took it out  and she couldve cancelled it at any time if her circumstances changed or 
she didnt want to keep paying for it.Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered her, I think it unlikely Mrs C wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think shed still 
have taken out the policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman