DRN-4073941
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2017, Mrs S acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mrs S was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £171. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £10,062.
Mrs S says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit search and verifying Mrs S 
income based on her payslips. It says Mrs S existing borrowing levels were low and there 
were no recent missed repayments reported nor county court judgements or insolvency 
records.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs S didnt agree and said that her credit score would have been low and that her mortgage 
payments suffered due to taking out this finance. She said her bank statements should have 
been assessed and that she was responsible for paying the full mortgage amount and a top 
up loan for the mortgage. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed but it has provided 
information about the results. Ive compared this to the extracts of the credit reports supplied 
by Mrs S. This shows that at the time of the application Mrs S had just under £700 of short-
term debt and had had accounts in default. I cant see any evidence of any county court 
judgement or insolvencies. So, while I note the evidence suggest Mrs S may have 
experienced some previous financial issues, I do not think the credit check evidence alone 
suggests the lending shouldnt have been provided. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mrs S about her income. I say this because it received copies of her 
payslips. These showed Mrs S had a monthly income of just over £1,300. Moneybarn didnt 
ask Mrs S about her expenditure. Although it did complete a credit check, this wont have 
indicated what Mrs S regular living expenses were. Without knowing what Mrs S regular 
committed expenditure was Moneybarn wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of 
whether the agreement was affordable or not. 
I cant be certain what Mrs S would have told Moneybarn had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence 
of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Mrs S 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed the statements that have been provided for the three-month period prior to the 
application and although these arent complete, I think they give a reasonable indication of 
Mrs S expenses at the time. These show that Mrs S was making regular payments for other 
credit commitments, insurance as well as food and fuel. She has said that her husband paid 
for the utilities, and she paid the mortgage and mortgage top up loan. I can see evidence of 
a £340 payment to the top up loan Mrs S has noted in one of the months, but monthly 
mortgage payments arent clearly shown. Mrs S regular expenses included loan repayments 
of around £198, another credit commitment of a round £142 and other regular payments 
totally around £100. Mrs S has also explained she had other family members living with her 
at the time and they made a contribution towards costs. These can be seen in the 
statements with significant amounts being paid in and some payments going out. Taking this 
all into account, and noting the comment Mrs S has made about payments, I do not find I 
have enough to say that had further questions been asked about Mrs S expenses at the 
time, these would have resulted in Moneybarn considering the lending unaffordable. For this 
reason, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman