DRN-4110208
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint relates to a car BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) supplied 
to him under a hire-purchase agreement
What happened
In May 2022 Mr S entered into a hire-purchase agreement under which BMWFS supplied 
him with a used car. At the time the car in question was around seven years old. On taking 
delivery Mr S made some adjustments to the car, including fitting a secure tracking device 
and cherished number plates.
Unfortunately, soon after taking delivery Mr S began to experience problems with the car. He 
identified a number of things he felt indicated the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, both 
cosmetically and mechanically. Mr S attempted to get the issues rectified through the 
dealership, who undertook repairs to the vehicle on several occasions. The dealership 
provided Mr S with an alternative vehicle for some of the time it was investigating.
Due to ongoing problems with the car Mr S became dissatisfied with the dealership and at 
the end of August raised his concerns with BMWFS. In doing so he provided a non-
exhaustive list of the vehicle defects, expressing his intention to cancel his direct debit and 
make a manual payment, and that he would reject the car under relevant legislation1 if it 
remained not fixed within 30 days.
BMWFS corresponded with the dealership, initially with a view to Mr S rejecting the car. It 
said it would take back the car and refund some  though not all  of the costs Mr S had 
incurred. As I understand it, Mr S decided he didnt necessarily want to reject the car at that 
point, and sought to enter into further negotiation with the dealership based on keeping the 
vehicle. During October the dealership undertook further work on the car, both in fault 
diagnosis and repair.
BMWFS issued its final response to Mr S on 4 November. In it, BMWFS said it understood 
the faults with the car had now been repaired, and as a result it wouldnt agree to rejection. 
However, in recognition of the problems Mr S had experienced it offered to credit his finance 
account with £1,000. Around the same time, the dealership said it would send Mr S an 
additional sum towards cosmetic work on the vehicle trims and provide a warranty extension.
Mr S was unhappy with the response from BMWFS and brought his complaint to us. In the 
course of our investigation, Mr S has mentioned additional matters he feels are connected to 
the underlying dispute, including further problems with the car and impairment of his credit 
file due to missed payments.
Our investigator noted BMWFS had originally indicated it would take back the car, and that 
there still appeared to be problems with the vehicle. By way of an attempt to mediate a 
resolution, BMWFS made a revised settlement offer. It said it would collect the car from Mr S 
1 Mr Ss claim is in the main founded on terms implied into his hire-purchase agreement under 
Chapter 2 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
and settle the remaining finance without seeking any further payments from Mr S (at this 
time, hed made three of the monthly payments). BMWFS added that it would clear any 
adverse payment data from Mr Ss credit file and pay him £300 in recognition of his 
inconvenience.
Mr S didnt accept this proposal. He thought he should be refunded the monthly payments 
he had made, given the minimal use hed had of the car. He said hed previously been told 
BMWFS would refund these amounts, and that he should also get back the additional costs 
hed incurred, including the tracker, insurance, vehicle duty and the number plate transfer. 
Our investigator approached BMWFS, who was unwilling to change its offer.
Following further submissions from Mr S about his limited use of the car and the impact of 
the missed payments on his ability to obtain finance for another vehicle, our investigator set 
out her recommendations as to how she felt matters would be best resolved. She proposed 
that BMWFS carry out the actions it had proposed, but in addition that (subject to evidence) 
it should refund  with interest  two of the three payments Mr S had made towards the 
agreement as well as the following costs: 
the number plate transfers
the vehicle tracker and trickle charger
the MOT
the insurance premiums and vehicle duty from October 2022 (being the point at 
which she felt BMWFS should have accepted return of the car) to date
BMWFS was willing to agree to some of the investigators recommendations. But it disputed 
that it should refund the number plate transfer costs, as it said Mr S hadnt told it hed 
changed the vehicle in this way. Mr S has disputed this. BMWFS also queried the refunds of 
the monthly payments, the car insurance and vehicle duty. It considers that Mr S should pay 
these for the period he was in possession of the car.
As Mr S isnt willing to accept BMWFSs further revised proposal, and BMWFS hasnt 
accepted the remedy proposed by our investigator, the matter has been passed to me for 
review and determination. I understand that Mr S has expressed the intention to instigate 
legal proceedings in the event that the dispute remains unresolved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the investigators proposal is an appropriate way to resolve 
Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S has, on the face of it, presented a clear case that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, 
taking into account relevant factors such as its age and the price. I find his version of events 
is credible and persuasive. As the supplier of the car under the hire-purchase agreement, 
BMWFS is responsible for supplying a car of satisfactory quality in accordance with the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, which incorporates this requirement into the contract between 
the parties. BMWFS appears to have accepted that the car didnt meet the required 
standard, though for the avoidance of any doubt that is the view I have taken here.
The remaining question is how BMWFS should address this breach of contract. The 
attempts at repairing the faults with the car havent fully addressed the problems, and the 
parties accept that Mr S can reject the car and the hire-purchase agreement be brought to an end. The car will be collected at no cost to Mr S. That seems to me a sensible way 
forward. Theres little doubt that Mr S has been inconvenienced by the problems he 
experienced and it seems fair to me that BMWFS pays him compensation in recognition of 
this. The £300 the investigator suggested is in my view appropriate for this.
Mr S has expressed concern over missed payment information reported on his credit file. 
BMWFS has agreed to remove adverse information recorded in relation to the agreement. I 
think thats only right. Once this is done, Mr S should find his credit position has been 
restored and he will be at liberty to apply for future credit.
BMWFS has said it will meet the cost of the secure tracker, the trickle charger and the MOT 
Mr S paid for, subject to evidence of costs. These all appear to be costs associated with the 
acquisition of the car, and as such can be claimed by Mr S as damages arising from the 
breach. As BMWFS has agreed to pay these, they should be included in the settlement.
The key issue is those costs that Mr S has claimed that BMWFS has said its not willing to 
meet. The first of these is the finance repayments. I understand why Mr S believes he should 
be refunded all of these payments. But Im not persuaded that would necessarily be the 
outcome should the matter go to court. Although Mr Ss use of the car has undoubtedly been 
impaired, he has had some use of it.
Our investigator felt that a suitable way to reflect that impaired use would be for BMWFS to 
refund two of Mr Ss three payments. While I appreciate BMWFS holds the view that Mr S 
has had possession of the vehicle, the position it has taken wouldnt adequately reflect the 
limited use he has been able to make of it. I therefore take the view that a refund of two 
months payments is appropriate.
I share BMWFSs view of the insurance and vehicle duty costs, in that they are costs 
associated with possession and use  however limited  of a car. That said, had BMWFS 
agreed rejection in October 2022 as its correspondence with the dealer indicates it was 
looking to do, Mr S would not have incurred any further charges for these matters. Any such 
costs from October 2022 are attributable to the failure to agree rejection of the car and so I 
consider that they represent a loss BMWFS should cover from that point.
That leaves the matter of the number plate transfer costs. I can see why BMWFS feels this is 
something Mr S should have brought to its attention. While Mr S says he did so, I must 
acknowledge that there is nothing in the record to demonstrate that this was something 
BMWFS was made aware of at the point of supply. But I would also question whether the 
position would be any different had there been such evidence. I cant see that this would 
have materially affected BMWFSs agreement with Mr S, or that the costs in question are 
unreasonable in light of what happened. With this in mind, I find it would be reasonable for 
BMWFS to pay the transfer cost as our investigator recommended.
BMWFS hasnt commented on the recommendation that it pays interest on the refunds. I 
think there is an arguable case for interest to be applied to the refunds for the two payments 
under the hire-purchase agreement, and for the insurance and vehicle duty costs from 
October 2022. I dont think the same necessarily follows for the other costs, and so Im not 
awarding interest in respect of those elements.
I would also make a couple of further observations. First, Im conscious Mr S has further 
arguments and concerns over matters he considers are inextricably connected with the 
underlying claim. Im under no obligation to offer an opinion as to whether those arguments 
would be successful in a court of law, should Mr S seek to pursue his claim there, or to reach 
the same conclusion as might be reached there. While Ive considered all that hes said, it is 
entirely possible that BMWFS could successfully argue against at least some aspects of his claim in damages. My decision is based on what I consider a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve matters as an informal alternative to the court.
Second, there has been some confusion that has arisen from the fact Mr S was 
corresponding with the dealership at the same time as his early negotiations with BMWFS. 
One of the points to note in this respect is the offer from the dealership that I mentioned in 
the background section of this decision. Mr S says he didnt accept that offer, which was in 
excess of £2,000. Although I note Mr S has said that was as an issue separate and distinct 
from his claim to BMWFS, the correspondence with the dealership does speak to an issue 
over the cosmetic appearance of the car. It was proposed to address costs Mr S would incur 
for remedial work to address an issue of the cars quality.
On the basis that Mr S says he didnt accept that proposal, and noting he is exercising the 
right to reject the car, I have assumed he didnt undertake the remedial work in question. 
Should the basis for this assumption prove to be incorrect, the redress I have proposed can 
need to be amended to take into account any such money Mr S has already received as 
compensation for matters connected with the breach of contract. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. To 
settle the complaint, BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should take the following steps 
within 28 days of Mr S accepting this decision:
1. clear Mr Ss hire-purchase agreement with an effective date of 1 October 2022, and 
arrange to collect the car at no additional cost to Mr S
2. amend Mr Ss credit file to show the account as fully settled on 1 October 2022, with 
no missed or late payments recorded
3. pay Mr S £3,611.48, representing the sum of two of the payments he made towards 
the hire-purchase agreement.
4. reimburse Mr Ss insurance and vehicle duty costs, subject to him evidencing the 
costs hes incurred
5. The payments in 3. and 4. should be backdated to 1 October 2022 and BMWFS 
should pay interest on the total at 8% simple per year from that date until the date 
BMWFS settles the complaint. Ive assessed this at the rate the courts use where  
as here  a partys been deprived of the use of their money. If BMWFS deducts tax 
on this interest, it should provide Mr S with an appropriate tax certificate
6. reimburse the costs Mr S can evidence he incurred for the number plate transfer, 
secure tracker, trickle charger and MOT
7. pay Mr S £300 for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman