DRN-3879552
The complaint
Mr D complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Swinton Van) is 
responsible for mishandling a claim on a commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Where I refer to Atlanta, I refer to the above-named company and I include employees and 
others insofar as I hold Atlanta responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a pick-up truck that Mr D used for his 
work. For the year from August 2021, Mr D had it insured on a comprehensive policy under 
which an insurance company was responsible for dealing with any claim. Atlanta acted as an 
intermediary between Mr D and the insurance company.
The policy covered glass damage, subject to an excess of £100.00. The policy covered other 
accident damage subject to an excess of £700.00.
In May 2022, Mr D contacted Atlanta about damage to the rear glass pane on the canopy of 
the pick-up. Atlanta referred him to the insurance companys glass provider.
In June 2022, Mr D complained that Atlanta hadnt properly explained why the glass provider 
cancelled any repair or replacement.
In a final response dated early July 2022, Atlanta said the following:
I have been unable to locate any evidence to suggest we received further contact 
from you after initially reporting the claim, to enquire why the claim had been rejected 
and so, regretfully, I have been unable to uphold your complaint.
I have contacted [the insurance company] who have advised that fibre glass on the 
vehicle is not covered under the windscreen section of your policy and as such, you 
would need to claim under the Accidental Damage section of your policy. To do so 
would mean you would have to pay your £700.00 excess and that, as you have 
advised the cost of repairs would be approximately £700.00, no claim would need to 
be made.
Mr D brought his complaint to us in early July 2022. He asked that Atlanta should do the 
following:
Acknowledge that something went wrong and explain why they told me (at least 3 
times) that my glass claim was valid, only for it to later be rejected and cancelled. 
Verify that this glass claim (not fibreglass claim) is in fat invalid. Explain why 
customers have to contact the underwriter rather than themselves, the company they 
chose and pay money to. Put steps in place to avoid this communication mess 
happening to other customers.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. The investigator  
thought that Mr D had received poor service. The investigator recommended that Atlanta 
should pay Mr D £50.00 for that poor service.
Mr D accepted the investigators opinion.
Atlanta disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
 It cannot find any calls on the dates on which Mr D suggests he called it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. We deal with an individual consumers complaint against a regulated 
financial firm. Where the complaint is about a claim on an insurance policy, we treat it as a 
complaint against the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with the claim. 
Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or omission, we look at its impact on the 
complainant consumer and we may assess compensation at a level intended to put that 
right. We dont direct the firm to change its procedures so as to mitigate future effects on 
other consumers.
Atlanta was an intermediary rather than the insurance company. So, in Mr Ds case, Im not 
going to direct Atlanta to verify the claim or to explain why he had to contact the insurance 
company or to take any steps in relation to other customers.
The insurance company rather than Atlanta was responsible for dealing with the claim. And 
theres not enough evidence to say that Atlanta caused delay in that claim. So I dont hold 
Atlanta responsible for the inconvenience Mr D suffered from not being able to leave his 
gear in the pick-up pending the repair or replacement of the damaged part.
Nevertheless, Ive looked at the service Atlanta gave Mr D. 
Ive noted that its terms of business include a customer service telephone number ending in 
9195. Mr D has shown us call records of calls to that number on 14, 15, 20 and 21 June 
2022. 
Also Ive seen an email from Mr D to the glass company dated 20 June 2022 that included 
the following:
I called Swinton, my insurer, on 15th June and 20th June, and was told that because 
this case involves damaged glass, it can only be handled by [glass provider]. Swinton 
also told me that this glass is definitely covered by windscreen cover
As Mr D wrote that email on 20 June 2022, I accept that he had spoken to Atlanta that day 
and on 15 June 2022.
From its final response, I find that Atalanta had failed to keep records of his calls. So I accept 
Mr Ds statement that Atlanta thought his claim was covered on 20 June 2022. From that, I 
infer that Atlanta hadnt contacted the insurance company for an update until nearer early 
July 2022 when it wrote its final response. I consider that these shortcomings fell below a 
reasonable standard of service.So Ive thought about the effect of those shortcomings on Mr D. I accept that Atlanta wasted 
his time on the phone and left him disappointed and confused.
Putting things right
Overall, I conclude that its fair and reasonable to direct Atlanta to pay Mr D £50.00 for such 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Atlanta 1 Insurance Services Limited (trading as Swinton Van) to pay Mr D £50.00 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman