DRN-1917291
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold by Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) alongside a loan that was taken out by Mr and Mrs H.
What happened
In June 2000 Mr H and Mrs H applied for a loan with BoS and at the same time were sold a 
PPI policy to cover the repayments if Mr H was unable to work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The policy was paid for by a monthly premium.
Mr H and Mrs H complained the PPI was mis-sold. BoS said it didnt agree to uphold their 
complaint, so Mr H and Mrs H brought the complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. 
Mr H and Mrs H remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Mr and Mrs H applied for the loan in joint names. However as the first named on the loan 
application and the only one of them in full time employment, only Mr H was covered by the 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs H say they were not made aware the PPI was optional and do not recall 
discussing the PPI at the meeting at all and they do not understand how they could have 
signed forms that they had not read. They feel the PPI was added to their account without 
their knowledge or agreement and when they signed the loan agreement it was in ignorance 
of the PPI. They say the PPI was unsuitable and they did not want it.
BoS has provided a copy of the loan agreement signed by Mr and Mrs H. It doesnt have the 
actual loan and PPI application forms completed but has provided a sample copy of the form 
in use at that time. Both parties agree the loan was applied for in branch.
The loan and PPI application form had a separate section headed Protecting your 
payments. This indicates the basic eligibility criteria and also summarises the basic cover 
provided. There are within this section two separate boxes, one for yes and one for no, and 
whichever option is chosen requires a signature to be made in that box. This is a totally 
separate signature to that in the declaration section for the loan. 
On the loan agreement itself the PPI also has a separate section. Here there are again 
boxes to say yes or no, but these only require ticking. This section for PPI is immediately 
underneath the section setting out the loan amount and monthly costs. Within the PPI 
section the loan repayment amount is stated again and separately the monthly PPI premium 
indicated, before the monthly total for the loan repayment and the PPI premium is also 
provided. 
Taking account of the forms that were completed at the time and what Mr and Mrs H would 
have seen and signed, I think they should have been aware they had a choice whether to 
take out the PPI. This was some 20 years ago, and memories do fade with time. And I think 
it is most likely that BoS made it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs H agreed to 
take out the policy. They certainly signed the loan agreement and I can see the PPI is 
indicated as included and the cost shown clearly.
The policy only covered Mr H and he met the basic eligibility criteria for the policy. As BoS 
recommended that Mr and Mrs H should take out the cover it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on the information provided of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example, Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr H, who had the cover, 
would have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
I note Mr H says due to his good employment benefits he didnt have a need for the PPI. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any work benefits he would have received, so 
allowing that income from his work benefits to pay for other household expenses at what 
may have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs H if Mr H wasnt working.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. For example, it may not have made clear that pre-existing medical 
conditions were not covered, or that unusual employment conditions may affect a claim. But 
as Ive already indicated, I think its likely they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover at the time. And as Ive said he wasnt caught by any exclusions or 
restrictions of the policy. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover as it would not have affected him. 
I have noted Mr and Mrs Hs comments about the affordability of the policy and indicated 
they wouldnt have wanted to pay more each month than they needed to. But the monthly 
premium amount was stated on the application form and also the loan agreement, as also 
was the monthly repayment amount for the loan without the PPI premium. So at that time, 
with the figures set out very clearly with and without PPI, Mr and Mrs H could make their 
choice about whether they could afford the PPI cost. And as they signed that loan 
agreement, I think at the time they felt the cost was worth the possible benefits and 
reassurance the policy may provide.
It follows that I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Im not upholding this complaint.
Ive also considered whether BoS needs to pay back any of the costs it may have got for a 
high level of commission and profit share. However, the rules introduced by the Financial 
Conduct Authority about this only cover loans taken out on or after 6 April 2007 or if taken 
out before this date if they were still running on 6 April 2008.
As Mr and Mrs Hs loan started in July 2000 and ended in August 2002 it isnt caught by 
these provisions relating to the refunds of commission. So BoS doesnt have to pay back 
anything in relation to this.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold so Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman