DRN-3822618
The complaint
Mrs V complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has unfairly handled a refund request related to 
an event insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known. So, Ive summarised events.
Mrs V booked concert tickets for an event in June 2022. And she took out an AWP 
event policy that would provide cover if she was unable to attend for certain reasons.
The concert was later cancelled. So, Mrs V contacted AWP to request a refund as the 
event the policy covered was no longer going ahead. 
AWP agreed to refund Mrs Vs premium. But she says AWP never did this and she 
didnt hear anything else back.
So, Mrs V brought the matter to this Service. Our Investigator requested information 
from AWP but it hasnt responded or provided a file. She upheld the complaint, directing 
AWP to refund the premiums of £6.80, plus 8% simple interest from the date it had 
previously agreed to do so. And she awarded £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by AWPs lack of responses and inaction.
Mrs V agreed, AWP didnt respond. So, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this complaint are simple. Mrs V took out a policy that covered a certain 
event. That event in question never went ahead.
After raising this with AWP, Mrs V was told her premiums would be refunded upon 
receipt of a screenshot showing shed had a refund of her ticket. This seems reasonable 
to me that AWP would request evidence to support such a claim.
Mrs V shared this confirmation with AWP but the payment hasnt been made. Mrs V has 
also provided evidence to show she had chased AWP on multiple occasions. 
AWP hasnt provided any response to our Investigator. And to my knowledge the refund 
of premiums was never made. So its clear to me AWP hasnt done what it said it would, 
and its inaction and lack of responses to Mrs V have caused her unnecessary frustration 
over a straightforward matter that shouldve been resolved quickly and without issue.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct AWP P&C SA to do the following:
Refund Mrs Vs premiums of £6.80. Plus 8% simple interest from 1 April 2022 (the 
date it agreed to refund the premiums) until the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs V £100 in compensation for avoidable distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman