DRN-4289149
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the customer service he received from Scottish Widows Limited. 
What happened
Mr L has two life insurance policies with Scottish Widows Limited. He received letters from 
them to say that they werent receiving payments for the premiums and saying that his policy 
was lapsing. Mr L complained to Scottish Widows. 
Scottish Widows werent able to give Mr L an answer about his complaint within the usual 
eight-week time frame. But they did issue a final response letter offering Mr L £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused after the complaint was referred to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He thought that Scottish Widows had done 
enough to put things right. Mr L didnt agree and highlighted that hed previously been 
awarded higher compensation by Scottish Widows for a similar problem. He also explained 
the impact it had on his mental health at a time that he had other health issues. So, the 
complaint was referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted that Mr L had paid his premiums and received the letters in error. Scottish 
Widows has explained this was due to issues relating to a computer system migration.
I accept what Mr L was caused worry and inconvenience. I can understand how worrying it 
must have been to be told that his premiums, which were a lot of money, were not being 
received especially when he could see that they were being paid. 
I understand that Mr L had health concerns during the relevant time and so I can appreciate 
why he was worried about any lapse in cover. However, there was no break in cover and the 
premiums have been correctly allocated to the policies. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ls comments, including that this was the second time hed 
had an issue of this nature. Scottish Widows awarded Mr L more compensation on the last 
occasion. But my role is to decide if the compensation offered is fair and reasonable. And I 
think, on this occasion, £150 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. 
In reaching my decision Ive considered Mr Ls representations about the examples of 
awards on our website. In the circumstances of this case I think an award of £150 is fair. The 
system issue was a mistake and it took reasonable effort on Mr Ls part to get it sorted out. 
Although this wasnt sorted out straight away, and took some time, I dont think an award of 
between £300 or more would be fair and reasonable particularly bearing in mind that the 
policies remained in force and there was no break in cover. So, in this case, I think £150 
fairly reflects the impact on Mr L.
Putting things right
I think the compensation Scottish Widows Limited has now paid to Mr L is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and I dont think they need to do anything more to put 
things right.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against Scottish Widows Limited but I think the compensation 
theyve paid is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman