DRN-3436026
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the service they received from Santander UK Plc 
surrounding a refund of money to their account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R received a letter from Santander explaining that a historical system error had 
been identified which meant that they were due of refund of £8,436.78 on one of their 
accounts. Mrs R called Santander to enquire about the letter but was told by Santanders 
agent that it had been identified that there was some incorrect information in the letter and 
that a replacement letter would be sent to her in due course. 
This led Mr and Mrs R to be concerned that they might not have been receiving a refund, 
although when Santander did issue a replacement letter shortly afterwards it transpired that 
the incorrect information related to the refund calculation and that Mr and Mrs R would be 
receiving a refund of £8471.48, which was £34.70 higher than the initially advised amount. 
This amount was received by Mr and Mrs R from Santander approximately a week later.
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with the customer service theyd received from Santander when 
Mrs R had telephoned to ask about the first refund letter, so they raised a complaint. 
Santander looked at Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. They agreed that it must have concerning for 
Mr and Mrs R to have not been given more detailed information during the telephone call, 
and they apologised for this and made a compensation payment of £50 to Mr and Mrs R.
Mr and Mrs R werent satisfied with Santanders response, so they referred their complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the apology 
and £50 compensation that Santander had paid already represented a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what had taken place, so they didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Mr and Mrs R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been concerning for Mr and Mrs R to have telephoned 
Santander to ask when the refund that they were initially informed about would be paid to 
them, only to be told that it had been determined that there was some information in the 
original letter that was incorrect and that a replacement letter would be sent to them.
Ive listed to the telephone call in question, and while I feel that the agent whom Mrs R spoke 
with handled the call professionally, given the information he had available to him, its clear 
that he didnt have all the information necessary to accurately convey what was happening in 
relation to the refund at that time.
If the agent had have had all the relevant information available to him, he would have been 
able to inform Mrs R that Mr R and herself would still be receiving a refund, but that the 
amount was being recalculated because an error had been identified in how the refund 
amounts had been initially calculated. 
I feel that this would have been far less concerning to Mr and Mrs R as opposed to what 
actually happened, which was that the agent could only tell Mrs R that there was inaccurate 
information in the original letter, but didnt know what that inaccurate information was.
Santander acknowledged Mr and Mrs Rs concerns in their response to the complaint, and 
they apologised to Mr and Mrs R for not being able to provide more information to them 
when Mrs R had called, and made a payment of £50 compensation as a result.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being reasonable by 
one person not being considered as being such by someone else. But after considering all 
the circumstances of this complaint, I do feel that the £50 payment of compensation already 
paid to Mr and Mrs R by Santander is fair here, and I can confirm that its commensurate 
with what I would have instructed Santander to pay, had they not already done so.
While I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R would have been concerned following the telephone 
call, they werent told by the agent that they wouldnt be receiving a refund, only that the 
agent wasnt able to confirm at that time whether they would or would not be receiving a 
refund. And its notable that Santander sent the second letter, confirming that Mr and Mrs R 
would be receiving a slightly higher refund, the next day.
Additionally, while Mr and Mrs R might have worried that they wouldnt have been receiving 
a refund, if that had been the case, then this would have been because there had been no 
historical error with their account, which would have meant that no refund would have been 
due. And Im satisfied that it would never have been the case that Mr and Mrs would have 
been legitimately due a refund on their account but not received one.
Ultimately, as explained above, I feel that the response that Santander have issued to Mr 
and Mrs Rs complaint here, including the £50 compensation amount, already represents a 
fair and reasonable response to that complaint. And so it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action at this time.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr and Mrs R were wanting, but I trust that theyll 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman