DRN-3460374
The complaint
Mr K and Miss M complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) wrongly declined 
cover under their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. And theyre unhappy with how RSA 
handled their claim.
The claim was handled on behalf of RSA by an intermediary. Any reference to RSA in this 
decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of the intermediary.
What happened
In 2016 a neighbours contractors caused damaged to Mr K and Miss Ms property and 
belongings. Repairs to the property were carried out through their household insurers.     
Mr K and Miss M agreed with the contractors theyd do some additional repairs and pay for 
or replace the damaged belongings. But the contractors failed to honour that agreement. 
Mr K and Miss M were concerned about the physical impact on them of chemicals the 
contractors had used in the works and they wanted to know what they were.
In 2019 Mr K and Miss M made a claim on their LEI policy with RSA, through solicitors, for 
cover to pursue a legal claim against the contractor. RSA declined the claim. Initially they 
said Mr K and Miss M would need to exhaust other avenues to recover their losses and 
that the claim wasnt proportionate to pursue. Mr K clarified the circumstances and RSA 
reconsidered the position.
Mr K dealt with the insurance claim on his and Miss Ms behalf. He exchanged 
correspondence with RSA over several months. In the end RSA accepted there was a 
valid claim under the policy, but still declined to cover it on grounds of proportionality. 
They offered to fund the costs of a legal claim against the contractors until they became 
disproportionate if Mr K undertook to fund the costs to conclude the claim. And RSA said 
theyd consider a separate claim for personal injuries.
Mr K disagreed with RSAs conclusions about policy cover. And he was unhappy with the 
undertaking RSA proposed he sign. Mr K had concerns too about the way the claim had 
been handled. RSA didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint, so he brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator felt RSA had reasonably declined the claim. Since Mr K and 
Miss M didnt agree with her view, I reviewed everything afresh. 
I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties arguments about policy coverage are well known to them so I dont set them 
all out here. No discourtesy is intended; it reflects the informal nature of the service the 
Financial Ombudsman provides. And I acknowledge Mr Ks strength of feeling about what 
happened.
Broadly, under the terms of the LEI policy, RSA agreed to provide Mr K and Miss M with 
the cover set out in the Insured Events section of the policy, up to the claim limit, subject 
to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the policy.
The relevant insured events here are Consumer Protection, Home Rights and 
Personal Injury. RSA are considering a claim for personal injury separately, so I dont 
consider cover in relation to that. But Ill comment on it in relation to the handling of the 
claim.
The Consumer Protection section of the policy provided cover for:
Professional fees incurred in the pursuit or defence of legal proceedings as 
a result of any contractual dispute arising out of a contract entered into by the 
beneficiary where the amount in dispute exceeds £250.00 for:
1. Obtaining services including insurance.
2. The sale, purchase or hire-purchase of any personal goods.
Im not persuaded the verbal agreement Mr K and Miss M reached with the contractors fell 
within the categories of agreement covered by this section of the policy.
The damage to property and belongings happened when the contractors were engaged by     
Mr K and Miss Ms neighbours to do work to their property. They werent providing services to 
Mr K and Miss M at the time; the damage didnt happen when the contractors were engaged to 
repair Mr K and Miss Ms property, for example. The agreement Mr K and Miss M reached with 
the contractors wasnt for services or for the sale, purchase or hire purchase of any personal 
goods. It was an agreement the contractors would put right or compensate Mr K and Miss M for 
damage theyd caused when they were doing work for someone else. So, I think RSA were 
right to say the costs of pursuing a claim under this section of the policy werent covered.
Even if Im wrong about that, cover was subject to the terms and conditions of the 
policy, under which I think RSA fairly declined the claim, as Ill explain.
The Home Rights section of the policy provided cover for, amongst other things:

1.Professional fees incurred in the pursuit of Legal Proceedings following 
any event causing loss of or damage to the home where the amount in 
dispute exceeds £250.
2.Professional Fees incurred in the pursuit or defence of Legal Proceedings 
as a result of or any cause of action arising out of or relating to alleged 
infringement of:
a.The beneficiarys legal rights relating to the home.
b.By the beneficiary of the legal rights of another person arising out of 
or relating to the rightful occupation or ownership by the beneficiary 
of the home.I think there would have been cover to pursue a claim for the damage to the fabric of Mr 
K and Miss Ms property. But Im not persuaded the definition of home - [Mr Ks] 
principal, private dwelling house as defined for the purposes of qualifying for exemption 
from Capital Gains Tax - included Mr K and Miss Ms belongings. Even if, as RSA 
accepted, the claim could be considered under this section of the policy, once again, 
cover was subject to the terms and conditions of the policy.
The General Exclusions said no cover would be provided for the pursuit, continued 
pursuit or defence of any claim if we consider it is unlikely a sensible settlement will be 
obtained or where the likely settlement amount is disproportionate compared with the time 
and expense incurred.
The policy conditions included:
Claims Decision
The decision to accept [Mr K and Miss Ms] claim will take into account the advice of the 
authorised representative [solicitors] as well as our own claims handlers
[Mr K and Miss Ms] claim will be accepted if all of the following apply:
1. The position has not been prejudiced.
2.We have assessed [Mr K and Miss Ms] claim and deem it to have prospects 
of success.
3. Its likely a sensible settlement will be obtained and is proportionate with the time 
and costs incurred in dealing with [Mr K and Miss Ms] claim.
4. The event and action required are covered by this insurance
5.[Mr K and Miss M] has kept to the terms and conditions of this policy and none of 
the exclusions listed under the General Exclusions section apply.
Based on the exclusion and condition Ive mentioned, RSA had discretion to decide 
whether to decline the claim on grounds it wouldnt be proportionate to pursue a claim. Id 
expect them to exercise that discretion fairly and reasonably and consider advice from the 
solicitors.
Mr K and Miss Ms solicitors were concerned the costs of pursuing the claim would 
outweigh the costs that might be recoverable if the claim succeeded. Im not aware of 
anything to suggest the solicitors advice about that was obviously wrong; it was 
reasonable for RSA to rely on it. Even though the solicitors thought a settlement might be 
reached, it was fair for RSA to consider the costs on the basis that might not happen. On 
balance, I think it was reasonable for RSA to think the claim wouldnt be proportionate to 
pursue.
Under the policy RSA could limit the costs they paid in pursuing the claim where, amongst 
other things, the likely settlement was disproportionate to the time and expenses necessary 
to achieve it. I think RSA fairly offered to fund costs to the point at which they became 
disproportionate or the policy limit was reached if Mr K undertook to pay costs beyond that 
point. It gave Mr K and Miss M the chance to make the claim and, potentially, reach a 
settlement with the third party, before the costs became high. But I can understand Mr K 
was reluctant to take on responsibility for funding costs himself given the possible financial 
implications.
RSA had discretion to pay Mr K and Miss M the amount in dispute to settle the claim under 
the policy where it might cost more to handle the legal claim than the amount in dispute. But the policy doesnt provide indemnity insurance  thats to say it doesnt cover the 
damages a policyholder is trying to recover. It only covers the costs of taking legal action. 
Theres no obligation on RSA to pay the amount of the claim. So, I wont ask RSA to pay 
the sum in dispute.
RSA questioned whether the claim had reasonable prospects of success and their 
response to Mr K and Miss Ms complaint addressed this too. Prospects of success were 
defined in the policy as At least a 51% chance of [Mr K and Miss M] achieving a 
favourable outcome.
The policy allowed RSA to reach their own conclusions about prospects. But Id expect 
them to consider the solicitors advice in reaching a decision. The solicitors said the 
prospects of a successful outcome were reasonable. They didnt anticipate difficulties in 
recovering money from the contractors. But theyd only carried out an initial assessment. 
They required further information and evidence from Mr K and Miss M. RSA noted the 
contractors disputed the agreement Mr K said he and Miss M had reached with them 
verbally.
I think it was fair, on balance, for RSA to have concerns about prospects. In responding 
to the complaint, RSA offered to consider more information from Mr K and Miss M about 
that, but they warned Mr K the claim might still be rejected on grounds of proportionality. I 
think that was fair.
Bearing all of the above in mind, I think RSA fairly declined Mr K and Miss Ms claim.
Ill now turn to the handling of the claim. I can understand Mr K was unhappy RSA didnt 
initially understand all the facts. The solicitors assessment wasnt clear so I can see how 
RSA misunderstood the position. Mr K explained things in early October 2019. RSA 
declined the claim then on grounds it wasnt covered under the policy at all  and that it was 
disproportionate to pursue. I acknowledge their position about whether an insured event 
had occurred changed even though Mr K didnt provide any substantively new information. 
But, despite changes in claims handler, RSA were consistent in saying the cost of pursuing 
the claim was disproportionate to the sum in dispute, and declining cover on that basis.
RSA didnt initially consider Mr K and Miss Ms wish to pursue details of the chemicals used 
in the works. It wasnt raised by the solicitors in August 2019. Mr K mentioned it in early 
October 2019. He didnt suggest he and Miss M wished to pursue a claim for personal 
injury, but Id expect RSA to have thought about that as hed mentioned theyd suffered 
physically. RSA said later theyd consider the claim separately, which was reasonable. But I 
can understand it caused some distress and inconvenience to Mr K and Miss M that they 
didnt look at it sooner.
There was a delay of several weeks between November 2019 and January 2020 in RSA 
responding to Mr K. Im not aware of any evidence RSA were being deliberately slow or 
trying to put Mr K off pursuing the claim. They apologised and explained the delay was 
administrative. And they proposed the undertaking as a way forward. So, I think they 
were considering how they could assist Mr K and Miss M in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. But I think the delay will have caused Mr K and Miss M some distress and 
inconvenience.
RSA addressed correspondence wrongly to Mrs K. And in responding to the complaint they 
made some factual errors and overlooked the service issues. I can understand Mr K and 
Miss M found that frustrating.In summary, I think it was fair and reasonable for RSA to decline Mr K and Miss Ms claim. 
But they made some mistakes in handling the claim and there were some delays. I think 
its fair for RSA to compensate Mr K and Miss M for the impact of those mistakes. To put 
things right I think RSA should pay Mr K and Miss M £250 for distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision
I intend to direct RSA to pay Mr K and Miss M compensation of £250 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Developments
Mr K still had concerns about the policy wording, but he and Miss M accepted my provisional 
decision. 
RSA felt an award of £150 for distress and inconvenience was more appropriate since, as I 
understand it, my provisional decision to award £250 was mainly based on delays between 
November 2019 and January 2020 and poor communication during that time.
RSA acknowledged the time taken between November 2019 and January 2020. They 
explained this was because they were reviewing internally whether they could change their 
position on policy cover even though Mr K hadnt provided any new information. They said 
they were consistent in saying the legal claim was disproportionate and it was necessary to 
propose the undertaking because of that. 
RSA acknowledged they could have kept Mr K better informed. But they noted Id accepted 
their stance on coverage was correct. And they said since Mr K had challenged their position 
throughout, hed contributed to the distress and inconvenience he and Miss M suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the parties have accepted my provisional decision about policy coverage, I dont 
comment further on that.
Ive thought carefully about RSAs arguments concerning compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. I considered the points theyve now made in coming to my provisional 
conclusions. In addition, I took into account RSAs failure to consider all the issues raised in 
the claim and the mistakes they made in their communications with Mr K and Miss M. Mr K 
was entitled to raise questions about RSAs position. Considering the impact of RSAs 
actions on him and Miss M, I am still satisfied my proposed award of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience is fair. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for RSA to pay Mr K and Miss M £250 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mr K and Miss M compensation of 
£250 for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman