DRN-3629932
The complaint
Miss K complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Home Retail Group), 
trading as Argos, irresponsibly granted her a credit card account she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss K entered into an agreement with Home Retail Group to have access to credit with an 
account that was opened for her in June 2018. The account had an opening credit limit of 
£1200. 
In November 2021 the account was passed on to a third party.
Miss K, who first complained to us in December 2021, says that Home Retail Group didnt 
complete adequate affordability checks when it opened her account. 
Home Retail Group didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Miss Ks financial circumstances before granting her the account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Home Retail Group 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the account. 
Miss K didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Home Retail Group will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Miss Ks complaint is that Home Retail Group made credit available to her that was 
unaffordable. Before granting the new account and setting the opening credit limit, 
Home Retail Group looked into Miss Ks financial situation. I think Home Retail Group 
gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and information from Miss K about her ability to 
repay her account. This included completing a credit check with credit reference agencies 
and checking that she was in full time employment. It also showed that she didnt have any 
defaults or other adverse findings against her from previous borrowing. Its possible that 
Home Retail Group failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss K with credit. But 
even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused it to think the opening 
credit limit it gave her was unaffordable. 
I say this because, taking into account what we know about Miss Ks income and financial 
situation at the time, the opening credit limit was reasonable and the maximum monthly 
payments would likely have been manageable. And whilst Ive seen from Miss Ks bank 
statements prior to the account opening that she was consistently using her bank account 
overdraft facility, this had remained relatively stable and didnt suggest a deteriorating 
financial situation. Ive also seen from what Miss K told our adjudicator that from time to 
time she borrowed money from family members but was able to pay this back. And 
subsequently, whilst Miss K used most of the available credit limit and went over it from 
time to time, she was able to get back to the managing the account within the account 
limit. She also often made payments to the account that were over the minimum sum due. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss K to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Home Retail Group to think that the 
credit it provided Miss K was unreasonable. 
I know that Miss K will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss K to know that I 
fully considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
Im therefore not persuaded that Home Retail Group acted unfairly in approving the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman