DRN-3587154
The complaint
Ms S complained because Santander UK Plc didnt accept that shed paid in £8,000 cash 
rather than £800.
What happened
On 12 January 2017, Ms S went to a Metro branch and opened a new current account. The 
cashier took the money to the back office to use the cash counting machine, and returned 
with a machine-printed receipt for Ms S. Internet and mobile banking were set up for Ms S.
On 8 February, Ms S paid in a further £675 cash. Monthly statements were posted to Ms Ss 
registered address, but there were no further transactions.
On 28 September 2021, Ms S went to the branch to make a withdrawal. She said the 
balance was lower than it should have been, and said that on 12 January 2017 the amount 
shed paid in had been £8,000, not £800. 
The manager sat down with Ms S and her partner, and printed off a statement of Ms Ss 
account. She asked if Ms S had any supporting documentation, but Ms S didnt. The 
manager sent an internal request to try to obtain CCTV, but CCTV was only kept for 90 
days, and it had been over four years since the disputed transaction. The manager also 
looked at internal records for the relevant time in 2017, and there was no record of cash 
differences. 
Ms S was upset about the outcome, and complained. Metro didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
In its final response, it said that the receipt dated 12 January 2017 showed £800, not £8,000, 
and that it had checked its balance sheets and till receipts. It pointed out that it had sent Ms 
S monthly statements every month since January 2017. It also noted that Ms S had visited 
the bank when shed paid in the further £675 cash  but hadnt reported the problem at that 
point.
Ms S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. She said that the terms and conditions of 
Ms Ss account said that any errors had to be reported within 13 months  but despite that, 
Metro had investigated. The investigator saw that the manager had provided Ms S with a 
copy of the receipt Ms S had been given on 12 January 2017. And she noted that the cash 
deposit machine which had counted the money and credited Ms Ss account had been an 
automated process, not a manual one. 
There had also been no discrepancies on the branch cash management records for 12 
January 2017. By the time Ms S reported the problem, CCTV no longer existed, but the 
investigator said it would probably only have shown Ms S standing at the counter, and 
wouldnt have proved how much shed paid in.
The investigator also noted that Ms S hadnt raised the dispute either when she paid in a 
further deposit a month later, or when shed received statements every month since then. 
Ms S didnt accept the investigators view. She said she recognised the difficulties in dealing 
with a complaint when it was raised a long time after the event. However, she was 
dissatisfied because there had been no information about the employment of the cashier 
who had dealt with the credit on 12 January 2017. 
Ms S pointed out that the cashier had taken her money away from the banking area to the 
machine. She said that if the cashier had only put the lower amount into the machine, there 
wouldnt be any branch balance sheet discrepancies. She said Metro had told her it couldnt 
interview the cashier because he was no longer employed, and hed only worked for the 
bank for 90 days. Ms S said shed asked why hed left after only 90 days. Without this, she 
felt the investigators assessment was incomplete. 
The investigator explained that this service wouldnt investigate an individual employee 
about this dispute. She said that if Ms S wanted to take that further, shed need to take legal 
advice. 
The investigator concluded it was most likely that Ms S had deposited £800, as this was 
what showed on the receipt, and hadnt been queried until over four years later.
Ms S didnt agree. She said that she hadnt opened any Metro statements or emails since 
opening the account. She explained that when the cashier had returned from the back office 
with a folder, saying that it had been completed and £8,000 had been paid in, neither she 
nor her partner had opened the folder. She said that she and her partner both thought it was 
most likely that the cashier had taken a risk and had pocketed £7,200. 
Ms S asked what in-depth security checks Metro carry out before recruiting new staff, and 
why that particular cashier had only stayed for 90 days. She asked whether he had left 
voluntarily, or had been dismissed. She said she could take legal advice, but felt that Metro 
would have unlimited funds to prevent them finding details of the cashiers personnel record, 
if she were to take Metro to court. She said that if Metro continued to refuse to provide the 
cashiers personnel record, she would take up her case with the media.
Ms S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations and whether Ms S met the time limits
There are regulations about disputed transactions, and these are what governs the outcome 
to Ms Ss complaint. The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in 
January 2017 are the Payment Services Regulations 2009.
Section 59 of these regulations sets out: 
(1) A payment service user is entitled to redress under regulation .. only if it notifies the 
payment service provider without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months 
after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed 
payment transaction.Payment service providers also have to set out this provision in the terms and conditions of 
the account. Ive checked Metros terms and conditions, and Section 5.9 of its terms and 
conditions, to which Ms S would have agreed when she opened the account, says:
 You should tell us immediately if you  become aware of any unauthorised transaction or 
failed or incorrect payment on your account. If you become aware of any suspect or unusual 
transactions and fail to tell us as soon as you are able to, and in any event no later than 13 
months after the date any transaction was taken from your account (or, in the case of a 
failed payment, ought to have been taken from your account), it may affect your right to have 
the errors corrected and may mean that we are not responsible for any loss or damage you 
may suffer.
The disputed transaction took place on 12 January 2017. Ms S reported it to Metro on 28 
September 2021.  This was more than four years later, and significantly after the 13 months 
specified in the Payment Services Regulations 2009 and Metros terms and conditions.
This means that Ms S brought her complaint too late for it to be considered under the 
Regulations.
Whats most likely to have happened 
As Ms S brought her complaint too late for it to be considered, Metro didnt have to consider 
her complaint at all. However, it did choose to investigate. 
For completeness, despite the fact that Ms S brought her complaint too late under the 
Regulations, Ive considered what I think is more likely than not to have happened in 2017.
First, I can only consider the evidence provided by Ms S and by Metro. In particular:
- CCTV wasnt available because it had been deleted by the time Ms S brought her 
complaint.  As Ms S recognised, its unlikely that this would have been definitive in 
any event. Its likely it would only have shown the till where Ms S was standing, and 
not the back office where the cash counting machine was located. Even if Ms Ss 
theory were correct that the cashier stole her money, he was most unlikely to have 
pocketed it within sight of any CCTV camera. So its unlikely that CCTV would have 
made any difference.
- This service wouldnt ask Metro for the individual cashiers employee personnel 
records in the circumstances of Ms Ss case. Ms S says Metro told her that the 
cashier was only employed for 90 days, though we dont have any confirmation of 
that. We also dont set the processes which a financial organisation uses to recruit its 
staff.
The evidence I do have includes a copy of the cash machine receipt which was given to Ms 
S on 12 January 2017. This clearly shows £800. 
I recognise that Ms S says that she didnt look at the folder including the receipt which the 
cashier gave her when she opened her new account that day. This seems to me very 
unusual. A customer has a responsibility to manage their accounts, and in particular it would 
be natural to look at a folder of information handed over when a customer has newly opened 
an account. 
Ms S paid more in a further £675 less than a month later, on 8 February. To do this, I 
consider its most likely shed have opened her new folder from Metro, to obtain her account 
details. But she didnt dispute the previous deposit at that point. I also think its unlikely that, neither at the start of the account, nor at any point in the next 
four years, Ms S wouldnt have looked at any of the statements or emails from Metro, as 
shes said. But if its accurate that she binned and deleted every one of these without 
reading any of them, she wasnt monitoring her account in line with a customers 
responsibilities. 
I recognise that Ms S is correct in saying that if, hypothetically, any cashier stole money from 
a cash deposit and credited the customer with a lower amount, it wouldnt show in the banks 
records, which would still balance. But the fact that Metro said there was no cash difference 
at that time isnt the determining factor here. Ms S was given a receipt for £800 when she 
says it should have been £8,000  but she didnt query it either at the time, or when she paid 
in more money, or at any time during the next four years despite receiving monthly 
statements. 
Taking this into account, I find that its more likely than not that Ms S paid in £800 on 12 
January 2017.
So I dont require Metro to pay Ms S the disputed £7,200, because she brought her 
complaint too late, and in any event I also consider its more likely than not that it was £800 
which she paid in on 12 January 2017.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman