DRN-1437611
The complaint
Mr W and Miss P complain that Southern Rock Insurance Company paid out excessive 
costs when they settled a third party claim under their car insurance policy. 
Mr W and Miss P are represented by a third party. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as made by Mr W and Miss P.
What happened
Mr W and Miss P had an insurance policy with Southern Rock. In mid-August 2018, Miss P 
had an incident with a third party vehicle whilst reversing out of a parking space. Mr W and 
Miss P said they were at fault for the incident when it was reported to Southern Rock a 
couple of days later. Shortly after Southern Rock were made aware of the incident, they 
contacted the third party to arrange for any repairs to take place. The third party said that as 
the incident had happened a couple of days earlier theyd already contacted their insurance 
company who had instructed an accident management company who Ill call A to deal with 
their claim.
A couple of days later, Southern Rock identified that that Mr W and Miss Ps car didnt have 
a valid MOT certificate at the time of the incident. They said that because of this, under the 
terms of the insurance policy they wouldn't be covering the costs incurred from the incident. 
And any costs they had to pay out to the third party would need to be repaid by Mr W and 
Miss P. 
In November 2018, Southern Rock sent Mr W a bill for around £6,600, for the costs theyd 
incurred for the third party repair and hire costs. Mr W said he couldn't afford to pay this back 
immediately and agreed to repay it in monthly instalments. However, a couple of weeks 
later, after seeking advice and looking into the costs, he felt this figure was too high. So he 
asked Southern Rock to provide a breakdown of the exact costs paid to the third party. 
Over a period of several months, Southern Rock provided the breakdown requested. But 
when Mr W and Miss P received it, they felt the costs were excessive compared to the 
quotes theyd obtained themselves for both the hire car and repair. They also felt that 
Southern Rock hadnt done enough to mitigate the third party costs, and had caused 
unnecessary stress. So they raised a complaint. 
Southern Rock didn't uphold the complaint. They said that as Mr W and Miss P hadnt 
reported the incident within 24 hours they hadnt been able to contact the third party until 
after a hire company and garage had already been appointed. They said the hire costs were 
based on a similar classification of car to the third party drivers own car, and both this and 
the cost of the repair were within industry guidelines, so theyd paid the third party insurer 
costs. 
Mr W and Miss P agreed that the incident was their fault, but they felt the costs Southern 
Rock had agreed to pay were excessive. So they asked this service to look into the 
complaint.Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought that Southern Rock 
hadn't done anything wrong by settling the claim as they felt Mr W and Miss P were at fault 
for the incident. He also thought that Southern Rock had acted reasonably in paying the 
amount the third party insurer had requested, as the hire car costs were in-line with a car of 
the same category as the third partys and the repair costs were in-line with the engineers 
report. 
Mr W and Miss P didn't agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So the 
case has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
The purpose of my decision is not to address every point that Mr W and Miss P have raised. 
My role is to look at the complaint as a whole, consider the evidence presented by Mr W and 
Miss P and the business, and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account the relevant laws, regulations 
and industry practice. 
Ultimately, in this case Mr W and Miss P seem to be unhappy with how the third party's 
accident management company dealt with the claim and the costs incurred from this. But I 
cant hold Southern Rock responsible for another businesss actions. So this decision 
concerns the actions of Southern Rock and how it acted throughout the claim and settlement 
process. 
I recognise that Mr W and Miss P unhappy with the costs incurred by Southern Rock and 
they feel their circumstances haven't been taken into consideration. But Ive seen that they 
didn't report the incident until several days after it had taken place. This meant they 
didn't meet the terms of their insurance policy which states "After any accident or incident 
you must call our 24 hour Claims Helpline within 24 hours of the incident, ideally within 1 
hour". 
It also meant Southern Rock weren't given the opportunity to contact the third party at the 
time of the incident. This prevented Southern Rock potentially being able to appoint their 
own repairers, or the chance to look at alternative costs which might have been cheaper for 
Mr W and Miss P to repay.  
Southern Rocks records show that by the time they were able to contact the third party 
driver, a hire company was already being used and garage had already been instructed to 
carry out the repairs. I acknowledge Mr W and Miss Ps frustration at the level of costs 
incurred, and that they were denied the opportunity to seek a second opinion. However, the 
companies who were used for both the car hire and repairs weren't instructed by 
Southern Rock, so they weren't responsible for agreeing to the work taking place at those 
costs. Although we would expect them to challenge costs they felt were too high, and in this 
case I can see that they have.  
Most insurance companies have a list of approved repairers and hire companies who they 
will use because of their costs and/or quality of work. Southern Rock have confirmed their 
own engineers felt the labour costs theyd received from the third party engineers to carry 
out the work were in-line with what theyd expect. And Ive also seen evidence that the third 
partys car and the hire car were in the same S6 vehicle category. Southern Rock have also 
told us that the costs received were in line with what their own experts had said for the type 
of repairs, the timescale for the repairs, and the agreed industry vehicle category for the hire 
car. So I cant say it was unreasonable of Southern Rock not to challenge these costs further 
with the third party insurer.Mr W and Miss P have told us theyre unhappy with the cost of the third party hire car. They 
feel that it was too high initially as Southern Rock reduced it by over £700 after theyd made 
a complaint. Ive looked at Southern Rocks system records and Ive seen that they did 
negotiate the hire car settlement with the third party based on the costs they felt were 
reasonable for the type of hire vehicle and the rate being charged. And Ive seen that £2,400 
was the lowest figure they could agree on without the case being taken to court, which 
wouldnt have been cost effective for Southern Rock or Mr W and Miss P. 
Southern Rock have also told us that they are still looking to recover the full costs they 
incurred from Mr W and Miss P, not a reduced amount. However, theyve also said they are 
aware that its not always possible for policy holders to make the full payment for any 
outstanding amounts. And that they have a dedicated team who would be happy to discuss 
payment-plan options with Mr W and Miss P, taking into account any other financial 
commitments they have. I understand that Mr W already agreed a repayment plan with 
Southern Rock initially, so I cant say theyve treated Mr W and Miss P unfairly when 
arranging how Mr W and Miss P pay off the balance owed.
I recognise Mr W and Miss P are unhappy that they've paid premiums and their policy has 
been cancelled without them receiving any refund. However, I've seen that under the 
exceptions section of the policy wording it says that Southern Rock wouldnt pay for any loss 
or damage, if at the time of an incident if the policy holders car didnt have a current M.O.T. 
certificate. And that under the general conditions section, they can cancel the policy if there 
is a breach of any terms, exceptions, exclusions, conditions or endorsements. 
So Im satisfied that because Mr W and Miss Ps car didnt have a valid M.O.T. certificate, it 
was reasonable for Southern Rock to cancel the policy and look to recover any costs theyd 
incurred. Ive also looked at the policy summary which says if "an incident has arisen during 
the Period of Insurance, which has or will give rise to a claim, then no refund will be made". 
So, I can't say Southern Rock have acted unfairly and I wont be asking them to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman