DRN-2149784
The complaint
Mr I complains that a car was misrepresented to him by Clydesdale Financial Services
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr I took receipt of a used car in April 2019. He financed the deal through a conditional sale
agreement with BPF.
He was trading in a car and was keen to ensure that the new vehicle achieved a better fuel
consumption so Mr I says he enquired about that with the sales person at the dealership. He
says he only proceeded with the deal because he was assured by the sales person that the
car would achieve an equal or better consumption.
But a little over a week later Mr I emailed the dealership to complain about the fuel
consumption. He said he was only achieving 31mpg and had been achieving more with his
previous car.
He complained to BPF, but they rejected his complaint as they said the dealership didnt
agree there had been a discussion about fuel consumption and they would not have
provided the assurances Mr I claimed they had.
So, Mr I referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. He
noted that Mr I had emailed the dealership very soon after he took receipt of the car and that
hed explicitly referred to fuel consumption and the assurances he said hed been given by
the dealership. So, he thought on balance it was likely that hed been led to believe that the
car would deliver a better consumption and BPF should therefore allow Mr I to reject the car.
BPF disagreed with the investigators view. They said it was unfair to base his opinion simply
on the contents of an email sent to the dealership. They explained that the dealership would
be unlikely to propose a lower fuel consumption on a petrol car as opposed to the diesel
vehicle Mr I took receipt of. They asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont currently agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr I acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been
misrepresented to Mr I. If it was, and if that misrepresentation led Mr I to agree to a deal he
otherwise wouldnt have agreed to, Id ask BPF to take some further action.
Im not persuaded it is most likely that the dealership promised Mr I that the new car would
deliver a fuel consumption that was equal to or better than his trade in vehicle. I say that
because:
Ive reviewed the adverts for both cars. The new car had an advertised consumption
of 60mpg and the trade in one of 74mpg. Thats a reduction of about 19%.
I think its reasonable to suggest the relevant fuel consumption information was freely
available and Mr I would be most likely to have been aware of the relative
consumption figures before he attended the sales event.
Ive seen evidence that suggests Mr I had previously considered this model of car, so
it doesnt seem it was an impulse purchase. The dealership have explained he made
an enquiry about the same type of car in 2017 and had received a proposal for the
same model before he attended the sales event with them. I think its therefore likely
Mr I would have researched the features of the car and have noted the published fuel
consumption was inferior.
I think it would be usual for a diesel vehicle of the same model to achieve a better
fuel consumption than the petrol version. Whilst I understand thats not always the
case, and this was an Eco version, I think it would be something Mr I would have
wanted more detailed written assurance of.
I note Mr Is email of 9 April 2019 in which he explained his concerns about the fuel
consumption. This does provide some evidence that he was concerned about fuel
consumption and in it he clearly states that this was discussed with the sales person.
But the dealership dispute that and Im persuaded by the points Ive raised (above)
that theres not currently enough evidence to suggest this car was mis-sold to Mr I.
My provisional decision
Im not currently expecting to uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Financial Services
Limited.
BPF didnt provide any further evidence for me to consider but Mr I did. He said:
My family and I live in the same house we have done for nearly the last two decades.
I do the same volume and type of journey's as I have done for the last decade.
I work from home, have done since 2012
My wife uses the car sparingly
My (trade in car) has EXACTLY the same bells, whistles and toys that the (new car) 
has.
The ONLY thing car wise that changed was the fuel type.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Is concerns, but Im not persuaded the only reason to change the car would 
be for improved fuel consumption. The trade in vehicle was a different engine and I think its 
reasonable to suggest a consumer may want to change a car, for another of the same 
internal specification, for a host of reasons including its age, performance or because of 
emissions.
Taking all the evidence into account Im still not persuaded that its most likely the dealership 
promised Mr I that the new car would deliver a fuel consumption that was equal to or better 
than his trade in vehicle.
So, my provisional decision remains unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman