DRN-2893830
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited (Suffolk) failed to follow her 
instructions to transfer her holdings in the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) before the 
fund was suspended.
What happened
Mrs F is being represented in this complaint by her husband Mr F.
Mrs F held a self-invested personal pensions (SIPP) with Suffolk which included amongst 
other funds a proportion invested in the WEIF.
Mr F held the same SIPP investments in his name and made the same transfer request as 
Mrs F did.
On 7 May 2019, through Mr F, Mrs F instructed Suffolk, by way of telephone call, to transfer 
her holdings in the WEIF into the Fidelity Special Values Fund. Mr F did the same for his 
WEIF holdings within his SIPP. On 10 May 2019 Suffolk emailed Mr and Mrs F separately to 
inform them their chosen platform provider had confirmed that it couldnt support that fund so 
the transfers could not proceed. It therefore asked for alternative instructions.
Mr F has told us he replied to both these emails on his and Mrs Fs behalf from each 
separate email account to confirm that the funds be transferred to a different fund which the 
platform provider could support.
It would appear that Suffolk didnt receive the email from Mrs Fs account as on 28 May 2019 
Suffolk emailed Mrs F again to explain that it hadnt received any responses from her and 
queried whether she had any further instructions.
Mrs F has said she responded to Suffolk on the same day by email and referred to the email 
previously sent on 10 May 2019.
It seems this email also wasnt received by Suffolk as the transfer of Mrs Fs holdings in the 
WEIF wasnt completed. The WEIF was then suspended from trading on 3 June 2019 and 
Mrs Fs monies were locked in the suspended WEIF.
On Mrs Fs behalf Mr F has questioned how the emails from Mrs Fs email account werent 
received by Suffolk but the emails he had sent from his account had been received by 
Suffolk and his transfer was completed within good time. He feels Suffolk is responsible for 
the loss Mrs F has suffered by her monies now being inaccessible. He has stated that had 
Suffolk acted upon the instructions sent by Mrs F within the relevant time periods she would 
have full access to her monies.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. She 
considered the investigations Suffolk had carried out into the missing emails and was 
persuaded that the emails sent from Mrs Fs account werent delivered due to a technical 
problem perhaps with Mrs Fs server (which was a different one to Mr Fs email account). 
She therefore felt that while Suffolk hadnt processed Mrs Fs transfer, as she had 
requested, this wasnt because it had failed to act upon or ignored any instructions  it just 
hadnt received any.
Mrs F didnt agree with the assessment and despite understanding the rational the 
investigator had put forward she didnt think she should have to accept the loss incurred.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
There is no doubt that Mrs F gave valid instructions to Suffolk. But for me to uphold this 
complaint I need to be certain that Suffolk failed to follow those instructions or that it was at 
fault in not receiving them.
Suffolk emailed Mrs F on 28 May 2019 to chase her response to the initial transfer request at 
the beginning of the month. This would therefore indicate that nothing from Mrs Fs email 
account had in fact been received by Suffolk. It also seems unlikely that the emails were 
received and just missed because if that was the case, I dont think a chaser email from 
Suffolk would have been triggered.
I have seen that Suffolk carried out an in-depth investigation into the technical side of this 
issue. It found that all emails being sent to it come via a third-party system which carries out 
security checks. Once the checks are complete the emails are then sent on Suffolks 
servers. Everything is logged with this third party including when an email is delivered to the 
third party before anything is processed and this includes every email addressed to Suffolk.
When looking into the files held with the third-party Suffolk found four emails had been 
received from Mr Fs email account but nothing had been received from Mrs Fs email 
account. It also found that the servers for Mr and Mrs Fs email accounts are different most 
likely due to the different domain names used in Mr and Mrs Fs different email addresses 
and this may account for the problems in receiving the emails from Mrs F.
Suffolk did explain to Mr and Mrs F that further investigation would be needed to confirm this 
was definitely the problem, and I know Suffolk did ask Mr F to raise this with the server 
providers, but I havent seen any information that confirms he has done this. Nevertheless, 
on the information I have this does seem to be the likely cause of the problem and would 
explain why Mr Fs emails were received by Suffolk and Mrs Fs werent, even though the 
recipient emails address always seemed to be correct.
So in light of this information, it doesnt seem to me that Suffolk failed to act or indeed 
ignored any instructions sent by Mrs F. I am satisfied that the emails sent from Mrs Fs email 
account were not received by Suffolk and I have no reason to think otherwise. Therefore, 
without those instructions Suffolk wasnt in a position to transfer Mrs Fs holdings out of the 
WEIF. And I am satisfied that it did all it could to enable the transfer by contacting Mrs F for 
further alternative instructions when it became aware she hadnt confirmed anything since 7 
May 2019.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs F and she is now affected by the suspension of 
the WEIF but this isnt something Suffolk can be held responsible for. It wouldnt be able to act without instructions from Mrs F as the SIPP holder so in lieu of any instructions it did 
nothing, which is reasonable. And the fact the WEIF was suspended wasnt something 
Suffolk could have foreseen. The fact the emails Mrs F sent with her transfer instructions 
didnt reach Suffolk isnt due to anything she did, but I cant safely conclude that this is down 
to anything Suffolk should be held responsible for either. It seems to me to be a technical 
issue that unfortunately can sometimes happen. And while I appreciate the consequences of 
the transfer not being made as I dont think Suffolk is at fault in this situation it would be 
wrong for me to direct it to reimburse Mrs F for any losses she has incurred as a result of 
this issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman