DRN-3485258
The complaint
Mr H complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA rejected his claim without giving it 
proper attention to be given a refund for a purchase which wasnt as described.
What happened
I have been given lengthy details of the events leading up to this complaint, but for the 
purposes of this decision I will set out a brief summary. However, I wish to reassure both 
parties that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point raised by Mr H or PayPal, its 
not because Ive failed to take it on board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr H purchased a domain name from a merchant I will call D at a cost of £122.49 using his 
PayPal Credit account.  It acted as an intermediary between the owner of the name and Mr 
H.  When the domain was transferred it had was manged by a registrar, which I will call X. It 
locked the name for 60 days which I understand is done by some registrars and is in line 
with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) rules. This meant 
Mr H couldnt transfer the name to his preferred registrar immediately. 
The purchase took place in January 2020 and I gather that as of December 2021 Mr H owed 
£2253.70 not having made a payment to his PayPal Credit account since 6 February 2020.
He contacted D and said it had not made him aware of the 60-day lock. It replied as follows:
Each domain has its own unique registrar. Each registrar has its own unique terms & 
conditions and way of operating. These rules and regulations are all in line with what is 
internationally dictated by the ICANN.
One of these major influencing factors is the transfer lock. This lock is imposed on domains 
when:
the domain is recently registered (or bought through an auction)
the domain moves between different registrars
If such a lock is present we can only deliver the domain with its current registrar. We 
communicate this accordingly and if you do not want to receive the domain with the current 
registrar you could have notified us before accepting it. In that case, we would have 
terminated the agreement and refunded the payment to you. Now that the domain is in your 
possession you have full control over it and the payout is submitted to the seller.
Subsequently it said:
At this point you state you do not want to receive the domain at the registrar you are 
currently using. You can return the domain to us and get a refund or keep the domain and 
transfer it out as soon as the lock is lifted. Keeping the domain while demanding a 
compensation will be considered theft.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and contacted PayPal. It considered whether his claim fell within its 
buyer protection categories. The relevant one is titled: Significantly Not as Described. 
PayPal thought Mr Hs claim did not fall within that category and considered it to be a 
situation it describes as not meeting the buyers expectations.
PayPal responded to Mr H the following day and he concluded it had not given the matter 
sufficient attention and it had not sought further information from him in support of his claim. 
PayPal didnt agree and so Mr H brought a complaint to this service. It was considered by 
one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
She said that under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1975 a breach of contract is where the 
supplier fails to do something that the contract says it must. A misrepresentation is an untrue 
statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter a contract. She couldnt identify any 
evidence that either of these occurred.
Mr H didnt agree and said D had provided specific instructions which failed to mention the 
possibility of the 60-day lock. He explained that D had since changed its instructions which 
he considered supported his claim. He also said that the domain name was unique and if he 
returned it he would lose the opportunity to acquire it again.
While the matter was waiting to be considered by an ombudsman PayPal offered to reduce 
his debt by £1,075. Our investigator notified Mr H of this offer and expressed the view it was 
fair. Mr H didnt agree and said he wouldnt accept anything less than the ending of his 
contract with PayPal, the writing off of his debt and the removal of default notices on his 
credit file. He also explained that he suffered from ill health which had been exacerbated by 
the stress caused by the dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have already mentioned Mr H relies on the rights he has under Section 75. I thought it 
was important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services 
provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 
75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Hs complaint, I have to take account 
of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive taken it into 
account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a 
court might reach if Mr H pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our 
service is an informal alternative to the courts.
PayPal took the view that the 60-day lock wasnt sufficient to mean the product wasnt 
significantly not as described. He had acquired the domain name he wanted and it was 
available via the original registrar, but Mr H wanted to use his own registrar. I consider that 
to have been a reasonable position to have taken.
I can also understand Mr Hs concern that this conclusion was reached very quickly without 
taking time to obtain further information and give the matter due consideration. That may 
have been the case, but it doesnt mean the wrong conclusion was reached.
Ds instructions from the time did not spell out the possibly of a 60-day lock, but as it has 
explained that would not apply with every domain sale. Just as a car manufacturer is not 
required to detail every piece of information about a car I dont believe it unreasonable for D not to have explained ICANN rules which were not within its control. 
As Mr H has said the name was unique and it is clear he wanted to obtain it. If he had been 
made aware of the possible 60-day lock I am not persuaded that he would not have gone 
through with the transaction. He had the opportunity to return the domain name and get his 
money back, but he chose not to take that offer.
I gather he has not returned it and so I cannot see why he should not pay for something he 
acquired even if there was a 60-day delay in his being able to use it. Even if he had returned 
it I do not consider PayPal has done anything wrong. 
Despite that I see PayPal has made an offer to settle the matter and I consider that to be 
very reasonable.
My final decision
PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA has already made an offer to reduce Mr Hs account by 
£1,075 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA should reduce the account by 
£1,075.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman