DRN-4155949
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr W complain about the windscreen replacement that U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI) made following a claim on their motor insurance policy. They want it to provide a 
genuine manufacturers replacement. Mr W is a named driver on Mrs Rs policy and 
represents her in this matter. 
What happened
Mr W made a claim for a windscreen replacement, but he was unhappy that UKIs agent 
wanted to fit an aftermarket windscreen that he said was of lower quality than a genuine 
windscreen. He was unhappy that the policy wording didnt explain that this wasnt possible. 
He wanted UKI to fit a genuine windscreen without charging a further policy excess. Mr W 
was also unhappy that he had spent long periods on hold when trying to contact UKI. 
UKI said Mr W had been incorrectly told that he could have a genuine replacement. And it 
offered him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. But Mr W remained 
unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it 
wasnt our role to tell UKI what it should include in its policy booklet. She thought UKI made 
it clear in the policys terms and conditions that it could use non-genuine replacement parts. 
She thought its offer of compensation for not managing Mr Ws expectations was fair and 
reasonable. And she couldnt consider Mr Ws concern about wait times as he hadnt yet 
raised this with UKI. 
Mr W replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. He thought UKI should fit a genuine windscreen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W feels frustrated that UKI wont replace his windscreen with a 
genuine replacement. Hes explained that he has had previous poor experiences with non-
genuine replacements. And hes provided details of how another insurer does offer this as 
an alternative. But Im satisfied that this doesnt mean that UKI has to provide this as an 
option. I think UKI is required to provide clear, fair and not misleading information to 
consumers. 
I can see that UKI states on page 7 of its policy booklet:
Replacing parts in your car
We may decide to repair your car with parts that haven't been made by your car's 
manufacturer, but that are of a similar standard.
This can include recycled parts.
And on page 17, it advises the limits on the policy, and that a customer can use an 
alternative supplier, aside from its approved windscreen supplier:
Section 5: Windscreen damage
How much am I covered for?
If you use an approved windscreen supplier for repairs or replacement, we'll pay up to 
the market value.
If you choose a different supplier for repairs, we'll pay up to £40.
If you choose a different supplier for replacement, we'll pay up to £125.
Im satisfied these are clear policy terms and conditions and arent misleading. I cant see 
that the policy states there is an option for a genuine replacement windscreen. So I cant say 
UKI should have offered this. And so Im satisfied it has acted in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions in fitting a non-genuine replacement. 
In a call with Mr W, UKIs agent did say he could have a genuine replacement. But UKI has 
said this was incorrect. It has offered Mrs R £100 compensation for this error. And Im 
satisfied this is in keeping with our published guidance for where there has been a single 
error that caused trouble and upset. So I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Mrs R hadnt raised her concerns about call wait times with UKI before it issued its response 
to her complaint. Our Investigator has explained she has passed these on to UKI for its 
consideration. But I cant consider these further here as UKI needs to firstly have a chance 
to respond. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman