DRN-3604241
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as BetterBorrow (BetterBorrow) 
irresponsibly lent her money on a high cost loan which she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
BetterBorrow provided Mrs H with a loan of £4,500 on 28 September 2021 repayable over 
48 months in monthly instalments of around £140. Mrs H says she got into difficulty with the 
repayments. She had only recently taken out a large debt consolidation loan, and had a 
number of short term loans. She says she cant afford the repayments without using credit to 
pay household bills.
BetterBorrow said it carried out verification checks of Mrs Hs income and carried out a credit 
check. It assessed her living expenses using ONS (Office for National Statistics) data. It 
believed she was able to afford the loan and had a fair amount of disposable income (about 
£465) left at the end of each month after taking into account the new loan instalment.
Mrs H has supplied bank statements for July August and September 2021, and an up to date 
credit report.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that BetterBorrow 
hadnt carried out proportionate checks, which should have included getting a thorough 
knowledge of Mrs Hs financial circumstances. From reviewing Mrs Hs bank statements he 
said that Mrs H was using a significant amount of her income to repay her debt. He thought 
there was a significant risk Mrs H wouldve been unable to sustainably meet her repayments 
for the loan.
BetterBorrow disagreed, pointing out that it had done relevant checks and that the 
regulations dont require it to obtain bank statements. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did BetterBorrow complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs H would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs H would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required BetterBorrow to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Hs ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so BetterBorrow had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that BetterBorrow had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs H undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for BetterBorrow to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Mrs Hs income was assessed at around £1,946 a month. Though her actual salary 
payments were less than this she did receive regular payments of child benefit and child 
maintenance. So I think that was a fair assessment of her regular income.
Mrs H has supplied an up to date credit report and BetterBorrow has given us details of 
Mrs Hs credit commitments that it obtained. From this it appears that Mrs H had loans 
totalling nearly £14,000 (including an HP loan of £8,900). Total payment for those loans 
amounted to around £594 a month. She had a current account with a £400 overdraft and 
credit card with a £750 balance on it. I think, for the credit card and the bank account it is fair 
to allow a payment of 5% of the (then) current balance. This means monthly credit 
commitments of around £642. Adding the loan payment to that she would have been 
spending around 40% of her income on credit commitments, quite a high figure and a strong 
indication that the loan may not have been affordable. 
Mrs H has supplied a calculation drawn up by the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB). setting out 
that she is spending more than she is earning each month. I appreciate that BetterBorrow 
obtained some of her living expenses from Mrs Hs application. However, as it showed that 
Mrs H was overdrawn (and had been for several months) and had a high credit to income 
ratio, I think those checks should have alerted BetterBorrow to carry out further more detailed checks. And although the regulations dont specify that businesses should review 
bank statements, I do think the information revealed by those statements could have been 
obtained by BetterBorrow, had it carried out further checks.
In considering those statements, I think it is clear that Mrs H had been obtaining further 
loans up until the September 2021 statement. These dont show the debt consolidation loan 
she had taken out, though they do show smaller loans and various direct debits to loan 
companies. But as BetterBorrow has pointed out, that loan would presumably have paid off 
the earlier loans. I think though from the other information show on those statements Mrs H 
couldnt afford the loan, because her living expenses were higher than previously revealed. 
For example she was paying £445 a month in rent rather than the £235 taken into account. 
Also, while BetterBorrow says it used ONS data to assess her living expenses, I cant see 
that it added any extra liability for dependents, as would be normal. 
So I think that while BetterBorrow did carry out proportionate checks, the checks it did 
should have alerted it to carry out further investigations of Mrs Hs finances. And in turn that 
would have shown the loan to be unaffordable. So I dont think BetterBorrow made a fair 
lending decision.
Putting things right
Mrs H has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think BetterBorrow should refund all 
interest and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Mrs H as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mrs H has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, BetterBorrow should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mrs H
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about the loan from Mrs Hs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BetterBorrow to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require BetterBorrow Limited to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman