DRN-4271622
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) defaulted her account.
What happened
Mrs S had a credit card from HSBC. In 2022, she was made redundant and couldnt easily 
find another job. She ran into financial difficulty and in January 2023, HSBC agreed a 
payment plan for six months, with reduced payments. As part of this, HSBC agreed that a 
demand for payment would not be made, and a default wouldnt be applied to Mrs S credit 
file.
There were some issues with setting up the plan, for which HSBC apologised and paid 
compensation of £20. 
But  in February 2023, a letter of demand was sent and the account was defaulted. The 
default was registered at credit reference agencies (CRAs). In March 2023, HSBC agreed to 
remove the default and paid compensation of £20.
In March 2023, Mrs S account was again referred to a debt collection agency (DCA) and a 
default was registered on her credit file. HSBC agreed to put this right and remove the 
default. HSBC offered to increase the compensation by £110  to a total of £150. Mrs S 
didnt accept this and brought her complaint to us.
In May 2023, our investigator said there had been multiple errors by HSBC. This led to a 
poor customer experience for Mrs S. She had also notified HSBC that she was vulnerable 
and so the effects of HSBCs errors had an additional impact on her  and affected her 
health.
Our investigator said HSBC should pay further compensation of £410  a total of £450. And 
should take immediate action to remove the default from Mrs S credit file, and ensure her 
account was brought back from the DCA.
HSBC agreed with the recommendation, as did Mrs S. But then, because of HSBC recalling 
the account from the DCA, a default was advised to the CRAs again. But HSBC had 
monitored this and then advised the CRAs to remove the default on 17 July 2023. Because 
of this, HSBC paid additional compensation of £100. So - £550 in total.
Throughout this time, Mrs S had been reasonably monitoring the effect on her credit file. And 
she could see that in July 2023, it still showed a default  so she asked that an ombudsman 
look at her complaint. So, it has come to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mrs S personal circumstances and the difficult time shes been going 
through. I hope things are getting better for her now.
Its not in dispute that:
- HSBC agreed not to make formal demand or default Mrs S account when they 
agreed to the payment plan in January 2023.
- HSBC made several errors:
oIn February 2023, a letter of demand was sent and a default notified to the 
CRAs. HSBC agreed to correct that and paid compensation of £20 (in 
addition to £20 paid in January 2023 when the plan was set up).
oIn March 2023, a further default was registered at the CRAs. HSBC 
apologised and offered compensation of another £110, as well as removing 
the default from Mrs S credit file. Mrs S didnt accept this offer.
Our investigator issued her view in May 2023  which said the default should be removed, 
the account taken back from the DCA and compensation of a further £410 paid (in addition 
to £40 already paid). Both HSBC and Mrs S accepted this.
But then, in July 2023  the process of HSBC bringing Mrs S account back in house 
caused a default to be advised to the CRAs again.
HSBC told us that this was a consequence of moving Mrs S account back in house  and to 
be fair to HSBC, Ive seen that HSBC were aware this may happen, were monitoring the 
situation, and had taken action to delete the entry from Mrs S credit file.  Ive seen the 
evidence this was done - in July 2023.
But throughout, Mrs S has been monitoring her credit file  and she believes HSBC are 
continuing to give a poor service and not do what they said they would. And she could see 
that in July 2023, the default was still showing on her credit file.
But  as our investigator has advised Mrs S  it can take up to six weeks for a credit file to 
be amended. Thats not because HSBC have been slow or havent done what they said 
theyd do  it is simply that credit files at CRAs take that amount of time to update   banks 
send a monthly update of information to CRAs (its not a real time adjustment). So  Im not 
surprised that the July 2023 change wasnt immediately shown. But because of this latter 
issue, HSBC paid a further £100 compensation.
So overall, after some errors, Mrs S credit file should now be clear of HSBCs default 
marker, the letter of demand set aside and her account is being managed in house by 
HSBC.
So  this complaint now comes down to what is a fair amount of compensation for HSBC to 
pay. Theyve paid £550. Our service has set down some criteria for assessing compensation 
payments. This says  that an award of up to around £750 might be fair where the impact of a 
businesss mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant 
inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact 
lasts over many weeks or months. I think this fairly describes Mrs S experience here.
I appreciate that Mrs S is vulnerable and is in financial difficulty, and shes shown that she 
was caused a lot of anxiety and upset by what happened. But Im satisfied that here, 
payment of compensation of £550 for what happened is in line with what our service would 
expect to see, and so this decision confirms that.
For completeness, the decision also sets out that HSBC should ensure the defaults are removed from Mrs S credit file and the account is taken back from the DCA.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already paid £550 to settle the complaint and I think that is fair in all 
the circumstances.
HSBC should also ensure the default is removed from Mrs S credit file, and her account 
brought back from the debt collection agency to be managed in-house.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman