DRN-3797984
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited closed his account and hasnt provided a proper 
explanation for why it did so. Mr B says the bank has discriminated against him by closing 
his account.
What happened
Mr B has a personal current account with Starling. In July 2021 Starling reviewed the 
account and asked Mr B to provide information about a number of transactions and how he 
was using his account. 
Mr B said he was using the account to receive donations for a charity that hed set up, which 
he hadnt yet been able to register. He also said he used the account to make aid payments 
overseas and to change foreign currency for friends. Starling explained to him that it didnt 
appear to them that he was using his personal account in line with the account terms. And it 
told Mr B he should consider opening a business or charity account. Starling also told Mr B 
to stop what appeared to be business activity on the account. 
Following its review, Starling decided to close Mr Bs account with seven days notice. And 
sent him a cheque for his closing balance.
Mr B complained to Starling about the closure of his account. He explained that at the time 
Starling closed his account he was overseas and relied on being able to use the account for 
everyday expenses. So, the closure of the account made things very difficult for him 
financially. Mr B feels the bank has discriminated against him and have treated him unfairly 
because he has friends whove had the same thing happen to them.
Starling looked into things and said it had acted in line with the account terms and relevant 
regulations when it closed Mr Bs account. And that it wasnt willing to reopen Mr Bs 
account.
Unhappy with the banks response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service where one of 
our investigators considered it. The investigator said Starling hadnt done anything wrong 
when it decided to close Mr Bs account. Starling agreed with the investigators 
recommendations. Mr B didnt. He said the bank has discriminated against him and havent 
given him a proper explanation about why it decided to close his account. So, the matter has 
come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr B has told us and the bank that he feels strongly about his complaint.  
I appreciate that hes upset that Starling closed his account. And wont tell him why. But for 
me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done something wrong. 
And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Starling has extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities it must meet when providing 
account services to customers. And to fulfil these obligations they may need to review 
activity taking place on accounts and ask customers for information  its entitled and obliged 
to carry out such checks. The terms of Mr Bs account also permit Starling to review an 
account. So, I cant say Starling has done anything wrong when it reviewed Mr Bs account 
and asked him for information.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Bs account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene.  
Starling has provided some further details of its decision making process, Im sorry but I 
cant share this information with Mr B due to its commercial sensitivity. But Ive seen nothing 
to suggest Starlings decision around closing Mr Bs account was unfair. Im satisfied here 
that the banks decision to stop providing Mr B with banking facilities was reached 
legitimately and fairly.
I know Mr B says that he is a victim of discrimination by Starling. And believes the bank 
closed his account on the grounds of his religion. While I can appreciate this is his 
perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken place  only the 
courts have the power to decide this. I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation 
to what Mr B has said when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of 
this has meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The Act). And after 
looking at all the evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest that this was the case. So, I 
havent found that Starling decided to close the account for an improper reason. 
Banks should give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that means 60 
days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case Starling 
closed Mr Bs account with seven days notice. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view 
that wasnt unreasonable. And Im satisfied that the bank acted in line with the account terms 
and relevant regulations. So, I cant say the bank has treated Mr B unfairly when I closed his 
account.
I acknowledge what Mr B says about his friends having similar experiences. But I cant 
comment on that. I am only concerned with the facts of this complaint. 
The timing of Starlings actions was unfortunate. Mr B was overseas when he discovered his 
account was to be closed. He says he was relying on using the account to meet the cost of 
his everyday expenses. So, I can understand why he found this experience with Starling 
stressful and upsetting. But as Ive already explained financial businesses have a legal 
obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Ive seen the evidence provided by 
Starling and I can see that in reviewing and closing the account Starling were following an 
internal process which they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory 
obligations. This was a legitimate exercise. So, I dont believe Starling acted inappropriately 
and treated Mr B unfairly in taking the actions it did. And I wont be asking Starling to reopen 
Mr Bs account.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman