DRN-3348568
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Everyday Lending Limited was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In December 2018 Everyday Lending provided Ms C with a loan of £5,000 repayable over 36 
months with a monthly repayment of £279.35. The loan was repaid in November 2019 out of 
the proceeds of a second loan Everyday Lending provided to Ms C. The second loan was for 
£7,600 repayable over 36 months with repayments of £343.36.
Ms C complained that the loans were unaffordable. Everyday Lending looked into her 
complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it thought the loans were affordable. 
Ms C referred her complaint to us. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He didnt 
think Everyday Lending should have approved the second loan. 
As Everyday Lending didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Cs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms C would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms C wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms C undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
Everyday Lending carried out some checks before it lent to Ms C. This included asking for 
details of her income and expenditure, carrying out a credit check, requesting a payslip and 
bank statements. It calculated Ms Cs regular living expenses using statistical data and 
assessed her monthly credit commitments. Ive seen a summary of the information gathered 
by Everyday Lending, including the credit report and bank statements provided to it at the 
time. From what Ive seen, I think the checks that it carried out before lending to Ms C were 
reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
With regard to Loan 1 Everyday Lending established that Ms Cs average monthly income 
was £3,709.33 and she was paying £750 in rent. It calculated her other living expenses were 
£819. She was paying £261.14 on her existing credit commitments but that would reduce 
after shed paid off some of her most expensive borrowing with the new loan. Everyday 
Lending estimated that Ms C would have a monthly disposable income of £1,671.60 after 
taking into account her new loan repayment and some debt consolidation. In the light of this I 
think it was reasonable for Everyday Lending to take the view that she would be able to keep 
up the repayments on the loan without undue difficulty over the term of the loan assuming 
there was no significant change in her circumstances.
 
When Ms C applied for Loan 2, Everyday Lending worked on the basis that her average 
monthly income was £2,280. She was still paying £750 in rent. Everyday Lending calculated 
her other living expenses were £663. It estimated that Ms C would have a monthly 
disposable income of £228.74 after taking into account her new loan repayment. However Ms C was self-employed (under an umbrella company) and her income was very 
variable. In September 2019 her income was £2,760 but in October it was £1,800. Over a six 
month period earlier in the tax year according to her payslips her average monthly income 
had been £678. I dont think Everyday Lending took account of the fact that her income 
fluctuated and there were often months at a time when Ms C earned much less that £2,280 
and would have no, or virtually no, disposable income. Her declared income might not have 
been net of any business expenses. There was also an element of uncertainty  especially 
as Ms C was unlikely to receive any sick pay or holiday pay. 
Also the credit search carried out by Everyday Lending showed that Ms Cs borrowing on her 
credit cards and overdraft had gone up from £7,298 to £9,830 in 11 months and of course 
shed already borrowed £5,000 on Loan 1. That could have been seen as an indication that 
Ms C was having problems managing her finances.
On balance, I didnt think Everyday Lending treated Ms C fairly when it agreed to lend to her 
based on Ms Cs reduced and variable income and her increased borrowing as it wasnt 
clear shed be able to meet the repayments out of normal income without having to borrow 
further.
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Lending acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
As I have concluded Everyday Lending shouldnt have provided Loan 2, it should:
  refund all interest, fees and charges applied to Loan 2;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about Loan 2 from Ms Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending must give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint and require Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right for Ms C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman