DRN-4146832
The complaint
Miss A complains that Revolut Ltd did not refund a series of payments she lost as part of a 
scam.    
What happened
Miss A received a phone call from someone claiming to be from Birmingham Crown Court 
but was really a scammer. They had managed to spoof the official number of Birmingham 
Crown Court, as well as Revoluts number. They said that Miss A had been identified as 
evading tax, and they sent her official looking letters from HMRC claiming she owed them 
money. She was told they had an arrest warrant for her, and she had to make the payments 
that day, or she may be deported. Miss A had not been living in the country long and did not 
have knowledge of our banking and tax systems, so trusted what she was told.
Miss A made a series of transfers to three separate payees in a short space of time. To fund 
these Miss A used her own funds and was also told to borrow money from friends. She 
made the following payments on 29 August 2022:
12:56:04 -  £1,249.00
13:21:28 -  £995.00
13:30:46 -  £950.00
13:38:07 -  £998.00
13:55:34 -  £707.00
14:32:08 -  £995.00
14:39:03 -  £995.00
14:43:02 -  £510.00
The scammer then told Miss A the incorrect amount had initially been quoted and she owed 
a further £3,500. At this point she became very upset and eventually the scammer hung up. 
Miss A called the police immediately who recommended she contact Revolut and Action 
Fraud, which she did.
Revolut issued a final response in which they explained they would not refund Miss A. They 
said they had provided warnings to Miss A prior to the payments being made, such as the 
name of the payee she input not matching the one on the account. And that some of the 
payments flagged as suspicious so required additional checks and they asked Miss A what 
these payments were for. Finally, they said they had tried to recover the funds within a 
reasonable timeframe, so did not agree they had made an error. 
Miss A referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They 
explained that they did not think Revolut had done enough to protect Miss A from suspected 
fraud due to the pattern of spending during the scam, and they didnt think they had asked 
sufficient probing questions to get to the heart of the issue when they had concerns. With 
this in mind, they recommended a full refund of the transactions, as well as 8% simple 
interest from the date of the scam to the date of settlement. 
Revolut did not agree to the outcome and pointed to their previous reasons for why they felt 
they had done enough in this case. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that Revolut should have done more to investigate the unusual 
payments and if they had have done, I think the scam would likely have been revealed. And I 
dont think any deduction should be made to account for Miss As actions. Ill explain why in 
more detail. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Miss A authorised the series of payments as she believed they 
were going to pay taxes she owed.  So, while I recognise that Miss A didnt intend the money 
to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged to follow Miss As 
instruction and process the payments. Because of this, Miss A is not automatically entitled to 
a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough 
to try to keep Miss As account safe.
When considering the transactions as a whole, I think there were clear signs that Miss A was 
at risk of financial harm. She made a series of payments in quick succession and made a 
number of credits to the account which were slowly drained and she added multiple new 
payees to the account and sent funds to them straight away. 
In addition, for the first payment, I can see thar Revolut flagged this for additional checks as 
it was suspicious. As a result, Miss A was asked what the purpose of the payment was and 
she selected safe account. A common type of scam is known as a safe account scam, 
where an individual is convinced to transfer their balance to a new safe account which is 
actually under the control of a scammer. Miss A also input the name of the beneficiary as her 
own, which is another common sign of a safe account scam. It is very unlikely that the 
genuine name on the account matched what Miss A input, meaning Revolut would have 
been aware of the mismatch. Considering all of this, even though the payment was not of a 
high value, I think Revolut should have asked probing questions about this payment. 
I cannot see that they did however and instead they allowed the payment to be processed after Miss A confirmed the purpose. And considering the type of scam Miss A was a victim 
of, I think that probing questions by Revolut would have revealed it. I say this because basic 
questions such as what is the payment for would have revealed that Miss A was attempting 
to pay taxes by transferring funds to a personal account, which is a clear sign of a scam. 
Whats left to decide is whether Miss A has acted negligently in a way that has contributed to 
her losses, which would mean a deduction would be applied to the refund.
Miss A has shown that the scammer was able to spoof the phone number of a court, as well 
as Revoluts phone number. And they provided Miss A with official looking letters from 
HMRC demanding taxes be paid immediately. So, I can understand why Miss A thought she 
was dealing with officials. In addition, Miss A had not been living in the country for very long 
and was not knowledgeable about the banking industry or tax services. With this in mind, I 
dont think Miss As actions were unreasonable in the circumstances and I dont think the 
refund should be reduced as a result. 
Putting things right
Revolut should refund all of the transactions, as I think they should have asked probing 
questions about the first payment which would likely have revealed the scam.
Revolut should also add 8% simple interest from the date of the payments to the date of 
settlement.
If Revolut considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It should also give Miss A a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Miss As complaint against Revolut Ltd and direct them to refund her in line with 
what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman