DRN-3400420
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc settled a claim made on his motor insurance 
policy as split liability. He wants the record removed from the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange database (CUE) and his policy excess refunded.
What happened
Mr R was involved in a collision with another driver on a roundabout. Each held the other 
responsible. AXA investigated the claim and thought it couldnt prove that the other driver 
was entirely at fault. So it settled the claim as 50/50 split liability. This meant that Mr R had to 
pay half his policy excess and a fault was recorded against him on CUE affecting future 
premiums. Mr R was adamant that the collision was the other drivers fault. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AXA 
was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to settle the claim as it thought fit after 
reasonably considering the evidence available. He thought it had done this and so he didnt 
think it had done anything wrong or was responsible for Mr Rs increased premiums.
Mr R replied that he thought the damage to his car showed that the other driver was at fault. 
Mr R asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr R feels frustrated that AXA has held him partly responsible for the 
accident when he is very sure that it was caused by the other driver. Mr R said the other 
driver had been in the wrong lane and was undertaking his car and so collided with him. The 
other driver said Mr R had caused the accident by changing lanes and colliding with him. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr R the same as someone else in his position. 
I can see that AXA is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr R to take 
over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr R has to follow its advice in connection with 
the settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common 
term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
Also, insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to 
contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
I can see that AXA considered the two conflicting versions of events. Mr R provided a 
diagram of what he said had happened so AXA could see the journey made by each car. 
There were no independent witnesses, CCTV or dashcam footage available. AXA reviewed 
engineers reports on the damage to the two cars. So Im satisfied that AXA investigated the 
claim as far as it could do, and it reasonably considered the evidence available. 
AXA then decided that it would be unable to prove in court that the other driver was entirely 
at fault. So it agreed to settle the claim as 50/50 split liability. As the policy excess is always 
the first part of a claim to be paid, this meant that Mr R had to pay half of his policy excess. 
And as AXA was unable to recover its outlay in full, Im satisfied that a fault claim was 
correctly recorded on CUE against Mr R. 
So I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions in settling the claim. And so I cant say that it did anything wrong or needs to 
change the outcome. 
I can see that AXA settled the claim on a without prejudice basis, so Mr R is free to pursue 
matters further at his own cost if he so wishes. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman