DRN-2805335
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited failed to cancel his mortgage 
payment protection insurance in 2008 and that it has now refused to either refund his 
premiums from then or to allow claims that he would have made for unemployment and 
sickness had he known that the policy was still running.
What happened
Mr R says that he wrote to Fairmead in June or July 2008 to cancel the policy, just prior to 
moving house. He says he therefore assumed it had been cancelled at that time. Then, in 
2016, whilst looking through his direct debits, he found a regular monthly payment going out. 
He rang Fairmead to check what it was but was unable to pass security. He subsequently 
made a complaint to Fairmead and was told that his policy was still active. He also found out 
that Fairmead had written to him at his old address and that the letters had been returned as 
gone away. Mr R says that he would have claimed for a nine month period of 
unemployment if he had known he still had the policy. Similarly he says that he also had at 
least three periods of sickness and could have claimed for those as well.
Fairmead rejected Mr Rs complaint about failing to cancel his policy and therefore declined 
to refund his premiums. It also said that it was now too late for Mr R to make claims for the 
periods he wasnt working because, under the policy terms, any claims had to be made 
within 180 days of the last date that the policyholder was in work.
Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. His view was that Fairmead did not have to 
refund the premiums from 2008 because there was no evidence that Mr R had tried to 
cancel the policy. However, he thought that Fairmead should assess any retrospective claim 
that Mr Rs wished to make for unemployment.
Fairmead did not agree with the adjudicators view and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has no evidence of having written to Fairmead to cancel the policy in 2008, which is not 
surprising given how long ago it was. However, Fairmead has no record of any contact from 
Mr R to cancel the policy. Mr R clearly wouldnt have received a response to his request with 
confirmation that the policy had been cancelled. However, Mr R says he assumed, as he 
had written, that his request would be actioned. Mr R has also said that he didnt think to 
check if the direct debit was still going out at that time, due to other things going on in his life. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr R has said, but based on the available evidence, I 
am not persuaded that Fairmead received a cancellation request from Mr R in 2008. 
Therefore, Fairmead is not at fault for the policy remaining active. Furthermore, the policy 
was a standalone policy, meaning that it was not attached to the mortgage at his original 
address but provided cover for any mortgage that Mr R had.
Mr R says that Fairmead should have cancelled the policy after receiving returned mail that 
had been sent to his old address. However, Fairmead has explained that it would have 
needed Mr Rs permission to cancel the policy. Significant consequences can result from a 
policy being cancelled. It is therefore reasonable that Fairmeads policy was that it did not 
cancel policies without the express permission of the policyholder.
Based on the above, it follows that I do not consider that Fairmead should provide Mr R with 
a refund of premiums, either from 2008 or from when it was in receipt of returned post.
Mr R has argued that, if Fairmead is refusing to refund the policy premiums, it should at least 
allow him to make a claim for a nine month period of unemployment that he had in 2009, 
which he says he is able to provide evidence of. 
Our adjudicator quoted from the Insurance Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS), where 
it says that an insurer must not unreasonably reject a claim except where there is evidence 
of fraud, if it is a breach of a condition unless the circumstances of the claim are connected 
to the breach. So in this case, Fairmead would need to demonstrate how it is disadvantaged 
by Mr R bringing his backdated claim now. Mr R bringing the claim now does not appear to 
be material to the claim and so I dont think that Fairmead can rely on the term that he 
needed to make a claim within 180 days of his last working day. As our adjudicator says, it 
has probably put Mr R in a more difficult position to prove the merits of his claim.
On balance, I consider that Fairmead should assess Mr Rs retrospective claim for 
unemployment. However, whilst I take the view that Fairmead should disregard that Mr R 
didnt make the claim in accordance with the timeframe set out in the policy, that is not to say 
that Fairmead should now pay the claim. Fairmead doesnt have to set aside all of the other 
terms and conditions of the policy and is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy 
itself that Mr Rs unemployment meets the terms as set out in the policy.
Mr R has also said that he had at least three periods of sickness. However, this Service has 
explained to Mr R that the policy had a 60 day deferment period and, as he has talked about 
these sickness absences as being short term, they may not be covered under the policy 
terms. However, it is a matter for Mr R whether he wishes to make claims for these periods 
and feels he can provide enough evidence to support those claims.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint. Fairmead Insurance Limited does not 
have to refund any premium payments to Mr R. However, Fairmead Insurance Limited 
should assess any claims that Mr R now wishes to make against the remaining policy terms, 
whilst disregarding the clause that a claim should be made within 180 days of the last date 
worked. Fairmead should contact Mr R to begin the claims process.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman