DRN-3138252
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the administration of her mortgage by Barclays Bank UK PLC when 
she moved home.  
What happened
Mrs B has a mortgage with Barclays. In late 2020 Mrs B moved home. When doing so she 
ported her mortgage deal to her new property but reduced the amount she owed - as her 
new property had been purchased for less than she sold her existing one. As I understand it 
the new mortgage has been set up as intended. So, this decision will only focus on the 
issues Mrs B has encountered with the mortgage she held on her previous home.
Mrs Bs mortgage was in two parts, her main mortgage and a further advance. In 
December 2020 her solicitor asked Barclays for a redemption statement for her mortgage.
Barclays sent a redemption statement for each part of the mortgage. For the main mortgage 
it said a total of approximately £82,650 was needed to repay the mortgage in full  including 
an Early repayment charge (ERC) of just over £2,400. For the further advance the total 
amount required was around £6,850, including an ERC of almost £200. This meant a total 
payment of roughly £89,500 was needed.
The two redemption statements issued by Barclays gave instructions for paying the amounts 
due. They both quoted the same payment details, despite there being two sub accounts.
As Mrs B was porting her mortgage, she understood that she wouldnt have to pay an ERC. 
But her solicitor explained that the amount would first need to be paid. And Barclays would 
later refund the ERC to her.
Mrs Bs solicitors paid a total of just over £89,300 to Barclays between 14 and 
16 December 2020. The payments were both made using the same payment information  
as the redemption statements directed.
On 18 December 2020, Barclays refunded just over £9,070 to Mrs B. It wrote to her on the 
same day confirming this refund had been made. Then, several days later it sent further 
letters confirming her mortgage on her old property had been repaid and the charge held 
with the land registry released.
In January 2021, Barclays contacted Mrs B and said that there was in fact an amount still 
outstanding of just over £6,500 in respect of her previous mortgage. Mrs B questioned how 
this could be the case and complained to Barclays as she felt it had made a mistake.
Barclays said that the refund it had provided in December 2020 had been calculated in error. 
So acknowledged it was at fault. But it said the amount it had now asked to be paid was 
correct. It has since agreed that interest incurred on the outstanding balance between 
December 2020 and when it was repaid, would be refunded.
Mrs B made arrangements to pay the outstanding balance. She has said that while she did 
so, she didnt think it was fair that shed needed to. Mrs B explained that she felt forced to 
pay by Barclays so as not to impact her credit file. But she explained to do this shed had to 
use money intended for her retirement  as when she received the refund in December 
2020, along with Barclays letters, shed believed that money was due to her, and spent it on 
her new home. She explained having to use this money had impacted her retirement plans. 
And this whole matter was causing significant distress. To put things right she said she 
wanted Barclays to return the approximately £6,500, as she felt this situation had all come 
about due to Barclays error.
One of our investigators looked into matters. He agreed Barclays had made an error here, 
and that this had caused distress. But he didnt think that meant Barclays should be required 
to refund and write off the amount it had asked Mrs B to repay in January 2021. He 
explained this was because, without the error having happened, Mrs B wouldve still paid 
this. He did agree it was fair that Barclays write off interest charged as a result of this error. 
And he thought Barclays should make a payment to address the significant upset this had 
caused. And so, recommended that it pay Mrs B £500.
Barclays agreed to the investigators opinion. But Mrs B asked for the matter to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman as she didnt agree it was fair that shed had to pay the approximately 
£6,500 after Barclays had indicated her mortgage was settled. As an agreement could not 
be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has made errors here which it has acknowledged. 
The redemption statements it sent to Mrs Bs solicitors provided identical payment 
instructions. But Mrs B had two sub accounts. The result of this was, when her solicitors paid 
the total amount owing, the money was all applied to one of her sub accounts  the main 
mortgage. Meaning that it was overpaid, with the further advance not repaid. Which was not 
Mrs Bs intention.
Barclays then failed to realise that the amount overpaid to the main mortgage was intended 
to clear the further advance. And I think this should really have been thought about and 
potentially clarified before taking any further action.
Barclays then refunded Mrs B more than it should have. And after doing so indicated that the 
mortgage had been repaid in full, when this was not correct.
As Barclays has done something wrong, Ive thought about what it needs to do to put things 
right.
Mrs B thinks Barclays should be required to refund her the approximately £6,500 she had to 
pay, after the issues were discovered. But, while I know this will come as a disappointment 
to her, I dont agree. And Ill explain why.
The redemption statements for the mortgage explained that a total amount of around 
£89,500 was needed to repay the mortgage  made up of the outstanding balance across 
both sub accounts of approximately £86,900 and an ERC of £2,600. I havent seen anything 
to suggest that these figures were incorrect.
As I understand it, had there been no error, the £89,500 wouldve been paid to Barclays. It 
wouldve been applied correctly to both parts of the mortgage and the mortgage redeemed. Mrs B would then have received a refund of the ERC, as she was porting her mortgage, so 
wouldve been given back approximately £2,600. So, in total shed have paid approximately 
£86,900 when redeeming the mortgage. There wouldve also been no additional interest 
charged from the point the solicitors made the redemption payment in December 2020. I 
understand that interest was charged here, because of what went wrong. And Barclays has 
said this came to £24.06. But Barclays has agreed that it will refund this amount to Mrs B. 
And I think this is fair.
What actually happened, because of the errors by Barclays, is Mrs Bs solicitors paid 
Barclays roughly £89,300. Barclays incorrectly refunded her just over £9,000. And then on 
realising its error, required her to pay just over £6,500, to clear the balance in full. So, once 
this was done, she had paid around £86,900  which is the position she would always have 
been in.
Barclays did incorrectly issue a larger refund than it should have. And it did also say, after 
this had been done, that the mortgage had been repaid in full when this was not the case. 
But where a business has provided incorrect information, I dont think itd be fair to require it 
to make that incorrect information true. 
As Mrs B was expecting a refund of the ERC, I can understand why she thought, on 
receiving the refund from Barclays, that this was her money to use. And I also realise why, 
finding out this was not the case, wouldve been very upsetting. And I understand that this 
has had an impact on her finances and her plans.
But overall, I dont think itd be fair for me to say that Barclays is not entitled to the £6,500, 
which was always due under the mortgage agreement, because of the errors it has made.
I do agree with our investigator that the issues are likely to have caused Mrs B significant 
distress and inconvenience. Barclays made a number of errors when handling her account. 
And when Mrs B complained and asked for an explanation, it doesnt appear to have been 
able to give her a clear one. Not to mention, her having to make arrangements to cover the 
shortfall unexpectedly. And Ive taken on board what she has said about the stress this has 
put her under. But again, I dont think itd be fair for me to require Barclays to effectively write 
off £6,500 of the amount due under the mortgage, because of this.
I do think it should make a payment to Mrs B to address the trouble and upset this has 
caused. But, taking everything into account, while I know Mrs B does not agree, I think a 
payment of £500 to address the distress caused, which I understand Barclays has already 
agreed to, is fair and reasonable here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint.
To put things right I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to;
Refund the £24.06 of interest charged to the mortgage since mid-December 2020, as 
a result of the errors around redeeming the account in full.
Pay Mrs B £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its errors.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 Ben Stoker
Ombudsman