DRN-3436946
The complaint
Ms W complains about delays caused by Barclays Bank UK PLC when her deputies (Mr B 
and Mrs W) (the Deputies) appointed by the Court of Protection, asked it to open an account 
for her.
What happened
The Court of Protection appointed Mr B and Mrs W as deputies to make decisions on 
behalf of Ms W in relation to her property and affairs. The Deputies were appointed in May 
2019.
The Deputies made an appointment to attend a branch of Barclays in January 2020. They 
say they took the relevant identification documents with them and completed the forms 
they were given.
One of the Deputies, Mrs W says that when she attended the branch she was asked to 
open an account, in her own name, before the application could proceed. She says she 
was told she needed to do this because she was not an existing Barclays customer. The 
Deputies were told they would hear further in ten days time, after the details had been 
processed by a central team. They say they heard nothing further.
Mrs W went to a branch of Barclays a few days later to make further enquiries. She says 
she was told there was a problem with the identification of Ms W. Following this the 
Deputies attended the branch again. On this occasion, they say they were told that the 
documentation hadnt been received by the central team. Barclays said it would phone 
them within two hours  but no call was received.
Because of the delays the Deputies decided to open the Deputyship account with a 
different bank. The Deputies say Ms Ws estate has incurred additional and unnecessary 
professional fees of £1,542.48. They complained to Barclays.
Barclays investigated the complaint. It agreed thered been delays but it said the Deputies 
hadnt presented the correct identification and verification documentation when they 
attended at the branch. That was why theyd asked Mrs W to open an account, using its
online channel, in her own name before proceeding. It had applied for a dispensation but 
that had been declined. The Deputies said the account would be used to receive benefit 
money and so a benefit letter would be required. It offered £75 by way of apology for the 
delays.
The Deputies did not accept what Barclays said. They complained to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt think it was fair and reasonable to require 
Barclays to cover professional fees for a service which had been provided to Ms W in a 
personal capacity. He noted that Barclays had admitted there were delays and had 
offered £75 by way of apology. He didnt think it should have to do anything more.
The Deputies didnt agree. They said that our investigator had failed to understand the 
position of a Deputy and the nature of the dispute. The Deputies stood in the shoes of 
Ms W and it was her loss and inconvenience which required compensation. The Deputies 
also said that Barclays had failed to explain why it had given them incorrect information on 
two occasions.
Because Ms Ws Deputies didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued 
a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The identification and address verification documents
Ive looked at the information on Barclays website. There is a webpage entitled 
How do I open an account if Ive been appointed as a Deputy by the Court of 
Protection. There is then a link to a page which gives further information about 
setting up third party access. There are several different types of third-party 
access  including Court of Protection Order and Appointeeship. Each of these 
has different requirements.
For a Court of Protection Order, only the appointed representatives need to attend 
the branch. They need to bring the Order with them and they need to bring ID and 
proof of address documentation. Barclays procedures also make clear that for a 
Court of Protection Order the donor (in this case Ms W) doesnt need to provide ID 
or address verification, provided that the Order has been produced.
Acceptable forms of documentation for the Deputies is listed on the webpage.
The Deputies presented the Court of Protection Order to Barclays and the staff 
member tried to open the account using the relevant procedures. But, she was 
unable to open the account. She says the Deputies didnt have sufficient ID 
documents to enable her to open profiles for them. Ill comment on that further 
below.
In order to try to get around this the staff member says she asked Mrs W to open an 
account in her own name using an online system. The online system used a 
process to electronically verify the applicant. The staff member says she tried to 
import the information from the online application into the Deputyship application - 
but the system kept generating errors. She contacted a central team and asked for 
a dispensation to allow the account opening to proceed.
Ive looked at the response to the request for dispensation. That response asked 
the staff member to follow the appointeeship process to open an account with a 
court of protection order. It then indicated that the client would have to provide ID 
and verification documents and the customer will have one or more benefits 
letters. If the beneficiary is not present then a BF57 would be required. The 
response also said that the Deputies could request documentation for
the customer from DWP, GP. Care home letter can be used as 
address verification.
Having considered this information, it appears that the response confused an 
Appointeeship with a Deputyship. An Appointeeship is where someone has been 
appointed through the DWP to manage benefits. That didnt apply here. So, Im satisfied, on balance, Barclays didnt follow its own procedures when it said there 
was a requirement to get ID and address verification documents for Ms W.
Identification and Address Verification of the Deputies
Barclays says the Deputies didnt have sufficient ID and address verification with 
them when they attended the branch in January 2020. Barclays hasnt been able to 
say what documentation was provided or why it wasnt suitable. It says it no longer 
has records to show this.
I asked the Deputies to tell us what ID and address verification they had 
provided. They responded to say:
I believe Mrs W produced a copy of her passport and utility bill. I (Mr B) did 
not have to produce any ID as an existing customer.
Having considered this response, I cannot be certain what documentation was 
provided. If Mrs W had brought her passport and utility bill, that wouldve been 
satisfactory for the purposes of the procedures. So, it is unclear to me why 
Barclays didnt find this acceptable and why it asked her to open a new account. 
The new account was opened and she got the documentation for this the following 
day.
Ive noted that at the time, there didnt appear to be any issues raised about ID or 
address verification for Mr B. And, Ive noted when Mrs W visited the branch on the 
second occasion, she was told that the problem was with identification for Ms W  
she wasnt told there was any problem with ID and address verification of the 
Deputies.
Having thought about what happened, Im persuaded that if Barclays was able to 
satisfy itself about Mrs Ws ID and address  so that it was able to open a new 
account for her in her own name  it shouldnt have required anything further 
from her in order to open the Deputyship Account. And for that reason, I dont 
think it acted fairly or reasonably when it refused the dispensation sought and 
delayed opening the account.
What Ive provisionally decided needs to be done to put things right
As a result of what happened, the Deputies decided not to proceed with the 
Barclays account and instead opened an account with another bank.
It is the case that when considering a complaint of this nature our service can only 
award compensation to an eligible complainant. That is defined in the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook in the DISP rules. These say that the eligible 
complainant here is Ms W. So, I can look at any financial loss, distress or 
inconvenience Ms W herself suffered as a result of what happened.
Ms W is unable to make decisions for herself in relation to her property and affairs. 
Thats why the Court of Protection appointed Mrs W and Mr B as her Deputies. The 
Order appointing the Deputies makes clear that Mrs W is entitled to be reimbursed 
for her reasonable expenses and Mr B is entitled to receive fixed costs for the 
general management of Ms Ws affairs. The fixed costs allowable are set out in a 
Practice Direction from the Court of Protection issued in December 2017
Mr B says that the costs of the application to Barclays were wasted costs and he 
says Ms W is entitled to receive full reimbursement for these fees. The fees are 
stated to be £1542.48. Ms W paid these fees on 6 March 2020.Ive thought about what Mr B has said here. It is the case that the Deputies 
decided to abandon the application process because of the delays and instead 
they applied for an account elsewhere. That was their own decision. But, having 
considered the matter, I can understand why they chose to do that. Theyd waited 
over six weeks and no progress had been made. So, in these circumstances, Ive 
decided it is fair and reasonable to require Barclays to reimburse Ms W for the 
wasted costs.
Ive examined the invoice for these fees and I can see that it includes payment for 
an attendance in connection with opening the account with another bank. I think any 
fees attributable to opening an account with another bank cannot properly be 
included as wasted costs. And, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
require Barclays to compensate Ms W for those fees. So, Ive provisionally decided 
that Barclays should be required to pay part only of this invoice.
I think the sum of £1301.28 is fair and reasonable. It includes a reduction of just 
over £200 (plus VAT) from the original invoice  which is reflective of the time 
charged to cover the costs of opening the new account with a different bank. 
Barclays should pay Ms W this amount (£1301.28) together with 8% simple interest 
from the date when the invoice was paid (6 March 2020) to the date of settlement.
Ive also considered whether Ms W experienced any inconvenience or distress 
here. Her Deputies werent able to open an account in a timely manner to manage 
her affairs. I think that wouldve caused her some inconvenience. Barclays has 
offered to pay her £75 by way of apology for the delays caused. I think Barclays 
should be required to increase this amount to £100 as compensation for the 
inconvenience Ms W experienced here.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
I intend to require it to take the following actions:
Barclays Bank UK PLC should reimburse £1301.28 to Ms W together 
with 8%* simple interest from 6 March 2020 to the date of settlement.
Pay Ms W £100 by way of compensation for the inconvenience she 
experienced when Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed the opening of a 
Deputyship account for her.
The Deputies for Ms W responded to my provisional decision. They said they accepted the 
provisional decision.
Barclays also responded to my provisional decision. It said it agreed with the provisional 
decision.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive noted that the Deputies for Ms W and Barclays have accepted my provisional decision. 
In these circumstances, I have no reason to change my view about how this complaint 
should be resolved. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, Ive 
decided to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
I now require it to take the following actions:
Barclays Bank UK PLC should reimburse £1,301.28 to Ms W together 
with 8%* simple interest from 6 March 2020 to the date of settlement.
Pay Ms W £100 by way of compensation for the inconvenience she 
experienced when Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed the opening of a 
Deputyship account for her.
* If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Ms W, it should tell her how much its taken off. It 
should also give Ms W a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman