DRN-2208492
The complaint
Mrs C complains that West Bromwich Building Society mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 1991 Mrs C took out a mortgage. At that stage she didnt take out PPI. 
In 1994 Mrs C took out PPI to protect her mortgage monthly repayments. The policy covered 
Mrs C in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mrs C disagreed. 
Mrs Cs main complaint is that the mortgage was mis-sold to her and so she feels this should 
mean that the PPI she took out alongside that mortgage must also have been mis-sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Mrs C thought shed taken out the PPI at the start of her mortgage. But it looks like Mrs C 
actually took out the PPI some years later following a mailshot sent to customers of the 
building society who didn't already have PPI. 
Its completely understandable that Mrs C has forgotten details from a sale so long ago. But 
I cant fairly uphold Mrs Cs complaint that she was mis-sold PPI just based on what she 
says. I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
I dont know if Mrs C spoke to anyone at the building society about taking out the PPI after 
shed got the mailshot in the post or what, if anything, she was told about it. But, as the 
mortgage had been running for a number of years without PPI, I think shed have been 
aware that it was up to her to say if she wanted to take it out. 
 
And in order to take out the policy, Mrs C wouldve had to fill in a separate application to 
have the PPI added on to her account and also set up new payment arrangements to cover 
the monthly premiums for the policy.
 
Her mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mrs Cs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. The 
PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring the monthly repayments were protected even 
if she couldnt work. It looks to me like the policy couldve been useful to her if shed needed 
to claim.  
On balance, I think its likely that Mrs C decided she wanted to have the benefits that PPI 
offered her after being made aware of the policy features and so she chose to buy the 
insurance. 
West Bromwich Building Society says it didnt advise Mrs C to have the policy  she chose 
the cover based on the information she was given about it. 
Mrs C told us that the PPI was recommended to her. I think its unlikely, given that she got 
information about the PPI sent to her through the post. And its possible she was thinking 
about when she took out her mortgage  but thats not when she took out the PPI. 
In any event, I think a PPI recommendation wouldve been suitable for her given what Mrs C 
told us about her circumstances at the time.
I can see why Mrs C mightve wanted to have PPI and how it couldve been useful to her in 
her particular situation. 
Ive taken into account information Mrs C told us about the sick pay her employer paid. But 
PPI wouldve paid out a monthly benefit, in addition to any employment benefits and for 
longer - up to 12 months if Mrs C had an accident or she was too sick to work. This couldve 
been a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mrs C needed to claim  
especially if she mightve faced some extra costs as a result of illness or disability.
As well as this, the policy wouldve also covered Mrs C for up to 12 months if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and she became unemployed.  
 
Ive also thought carefully about everything Mrs C told us about her circumstances. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mrs C told us she didnt have any savings she couldve used to pay her mortgage if she 
wasnt able to work. 
I dont know how much information Mrs C was given about the policy exclusions and 
limitations. But it looks like Mrs C was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any 
of the main things not covered under the policy. So I dont think more information about 
things that didnt affect her wouldve made any difference to Mrs Cs decision to take out 
PPI.
Mrs C was able to choose the amount of monthly benefit she wanted to pay for. And she 
paid for the policy monthly so Mrs C couldve cancelled the PPI at any time without incurring 
any extra cost if she hadnt wanted to keep it running. 
In coming to my decision I've taken into account what Mrs C has told us about her mortgage 
but it doesnt automatically follow that this PPI was mis-sold.
Its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think that Mrs C still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if shed been given clearer 
information as it gave her useful protection. I dont think having better information wouldve 
put her off buying it.
Looked at overall, this means that I dont think Mrs C lost out as a result of anything West 
Bromwich Building Society did wrong. And so it doesnt need to do anything to put things 
right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman